Central Government Act
The Information Technology Act, 2000
THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2000  
1 Short title, extent, commencement and application. -
(1) This Act may be called the Information Technology Act, 2000.
(2) It shall extend to the whole of India and, save as otherwise provided in
this Act, it applies also to any offence or contravention thereunder committed
outside India by any person.
(3) It shall come into force on such date 1 as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint and different dates may be appointed for different
provisions of this Act and any reference in any such provision to the
commencement of this Act shall be construed as a reference to the commencement
of that provision.
2 [(4) Nothing in this Act shall apply to documents or transactions specified
in the First Schedule: Provided that the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, amend the First Schedule by way of
addition or deletion of entries thereto.
(5) Every notification issued under sub-section (4) shall be laid before each
House of Parliament.]
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881);
(b) a power-of-attorney as defined in section 1A of the Powers-of-Attorney
Act, 1882 (7 of 1882);
(c) a trust as defined in section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882);
(d) a Will as defined in clause (h) of section (2) of the Indian Succession
Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), including any other testamentary disposition by
whatever name called;
(e) any contract for the sale or conveyance of immovable property or any
interest in such property;
(f) any such class of documents or transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette."
2 Definitions. -
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) "access", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical,
arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer, computer system or
computer network;
(b) "addressee" means a person who is intended by the originator to receive
the electronic record but does not include any intermediary;
(c) "adjudicating officer" means an adjudicating officer appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 46;
(d) "affixing 3 [electronic signature]", with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions means adoption of any methodology or procedure by a person
for the purpose of authenticating an electronic record by means of 3
[electronic signature];
(e) "appropriate Government" means as respects any matter,-
(i) enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;
(ii) relating to any State law enacted under List III of the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution, the State Government and in any other case, the Central
Government;
(f) "asymmetric crypto system" means a system of a secure key pair consisting
of a private key for creating a digital signature and a public key to verify
the digital signature;
(g) "Certifying Authority" means a person who has been granted a licence to
issue a 3 [electronic signature] Certificate under section 24;
(h) "certification practice statement" means a statement issued by a
Certifying Authority to specify the practices that the Certifying Authority
employs in issuing 4 [Electronic Signature] Certificates;
5 [(ha) "communication device" means cell phones, personal digital assistance
or combination of both or any other device used to communicate, send or
transmit any text, video, audio or image;]
(i) "computer" means any electronic, magnetic, optical or other high-speed
data processing device or system which performs logical, arithmetic and memory
functions by manipulations of electronic, magnetic or optical impulses, and
includes all input, output, processing, storage, computer software or
communication facilities which are connected or related to the computer in a
computer system or computer network;
6 [(j) "computer network" means the inter-connection of one or more computers
or computer systems or communication device through-
(i) the use of satellite, microwave, terrestrial line, wire, wireless or other
communication media; and
(ii) terminals or a complex consisting of two or more inter-connected
computers or communication device whether or not the inter-connection is
continuously maintained;]
(k) "computer resource" means computer, computer system, computer network,
data, computer data base or software;
(l) "computer system" means a device or collection of devices, including input
and output support devices and excluding calculators which are not
programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with external files
which contain computer programmes, electronic instructions, input data and
output data that performs logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication control and other functions;
(m) "Controller" means the Controller of Certifying Authorities appointed
under sub-section (l) of section 17;
(n) "Cyber Appellate Tribunal" means the Cyber 7 [***] Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 48;
8 [(na) "cyber cafe" means any facility from where access to the internet is
offered by any person in the ordinary course of business to the members of the
public;]
8 [(nb) "cyber security" means protecting information, equipment, devices
computer, computer resource, communication device and information stored
therein from unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or
destruction;]
(o) "data" means a representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts
or instructions which are being prepared or have been prepared in a formalised
manner, and is intended to be processed, is being processed or has been
processed in a computer system or computer network, and may be in any form
(including computer printouts magnetic or optical storage media, punched
cards, punched tapes) or stored internally in the memory of the computer;
(p) "digital signature" means authentication of any electronic record by a
subscriber by means of an electronic method or procedure in accordance with
the provisions of section 3;
(q) "Digital Signature Certificate" means a Digital Signature Certificate
issued under sub-section (4) of section 35;
(r) "electronic form", with reference to information, means any information
generated, sent, received or stored in media, magnetic, optical, computer
memory, micro film, computer generated micro fiche or similar device;
(s) "Electronic Gazette" means the Official Gazette published in the
electronic form;
(t) "electronic record" means data, record or data generated, image or sound
stored, received or sent in an electronic form or micro film or computer
generated micro fiche;
9 [(ta) "electronic signature" means authentication of any electronic record
by a subscriber by means of the electronic technique specified in the Second
Schedule and includes digital signature;]
10 [(tb) "Electronic Signature Certificate" means an Electronic Signature
Certificate issued under section 35 and includes Digital Signature
Certificate;]
(u) "function", in relation to a computer, includes logic, control,
arithmetical process, deletion, storage and retrieval and communication or
telecommuni-cation from or within a computer;
11 [(ua) "Indian Computer Emergency Response Team" means an agency established
under sub-section (1) of section 70B;]
(v) "information" includes 12 [data, message, text], images, sound, voice,
codes, computer programmes, software and data bases or micro film or computer
generated micro fiche;
13 [(w) "intermediary", with respect to any particular electronic records,
means any person who on behalf of another person receives, stores or transmits
that record or provides any service with respect to that record and includes
telecom service providers, network service providers, internet service
providers, web-hosting service providers, search engines, online payment
sites, online-auction sites, online-market places and cyber cafes;]
(x) "key pair", in an asymmetric crypto system, means a private key and its
mathematically related public key, which are so related that the public key
can verify a digital signature created by the private key;
(y) "law" includes any Act of Parliament or of a State Legislature, Ordinances
promulgated by the President or a Governor, as the case may be, Regulations
made by the President under article 240, Bills enacted as President's Act
under sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of article 357 of the Constitution and
includes rules, regulations, bye-laws and orders issued or made thereunder;
(z) "licence" means a licence granted to a Certifying Authority under section
24;
(za) "originator" means a person who sends, generates, stores or transmits any
electronic message; or causes any electronic message to be sent, generated,
stored or transmitted to any other person but does not include an
intermediary;
(zb) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(zc) "private key" means the key of a key pair used to create a digital
signature;
(zd) "public key" means the key of a key pair used to verify a digital
signature and listed in the Digital Signature Certificate;
(ze) "secure system" means computer hardware, software, and procedure that-
(a) are reasonably secure from unauthorised access and misuse;
(b) provide a reasonable level of reliability and correct operation;
(c) are reasonably suited to performing the intended functions; and
(d) adhere to generally accepted security procedures;
(zf) "security procedure" means the security procedure prescribed under
section 16 by the Central Government;
(zg) "subscriber" means a person in whose name the [Electronic Signature]
Certificate is issued;
(zh) "verify", in relation to a digital signature, electronic record or public
key, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means to
determine whether-
(a) the initial electronic record was affixed with the digital signature by
the use of private key corresponding to the public key of the subscriber;
(b) the initial electronic record is retained intact or has been altered since
such electronic record was so affixed with the digital signature.
'(j) "computer network" means the interconnection of one or more computers
through-
(i) the use of satellite, microwave, terrestrial line or other communication
media; and
(ii) terminals or a complex consisting of two or more interconnected computers
whether or not the interconnection is continuously maintained;'
(2) Any reference in this Act to any enactment or any provision thereof shall,
in relation to an area in which such enactment or such provision is not in
force, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law or the relevant
provision of the corresponding law, if any, in force in that area.
3. Authentication of electronic records.-
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, any subscriber may authenticate
an electronic record by affixing his digital signature.
(2) The authentication of the electronic record shall be effected by the use
of asymmetric crypto system and hash function which envelop and transform the
initial electronic record into another electronic record. Explanation.-For the
purposes of this sub-section, "hash function" means an algorithm mapping or
translation of one sequence of bits into another, generally smaller, set known
as "hash result" such that an electronic record yields the same hash result
every time the algorithm is executed with the same electronic record as its
input making it computationally infeasible-
(a) to derive or reconstruct the original electronic record from the hash
result produced by the algorithm;
(b) that two electronic records can produce the same hash result using the
algorithm.
(3) Any person by the use of a public key of the subscriber can verify the
electronic record.
(4) The private key and the public key are unique to the subscriber and
constitute a functioning key pair.
14 [ 3A Electronic signature. -
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, but subject to the
provisions of sub-section (2), a subscriber may authenticate any electronic
record by such electronic signature or electronic authentication technique
which-
(a) is considered reliable; and
(b) may be specified in the Second Schedule.
(2) For the purposes of this section any electronic signature or electronic
authentication technique shall be considered reliable if-
(a) the signature creation data or the authentication data are, within the
context in which they are used, linked to the signatory or, as the case may
be, the authenticator and to no other person;
(b) the signature creation data or the authentication data were, at the time
of signing, under the control of the signatory or, as the case may be, the
authenticator and of no other person;
(c) any alteration to the electronic signature made after affixing such
signature is detectable;
(d) any alteration to the information made after its authentication by
electronic signature is detectable; and
(e) it fulfils such other conditions which may be prescribed.
(3) The Central Government may prescribe the procedure for the purpose of
ascertaining whether electronic signature is that of the person by whom it is
purported to have been affixed or authenticated.
(4) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, add
to or omit any electronic signature or electronic authentication technique and
the procedure for affixing such signature from the Second Schedule: Provided
that no electronic signature or authentication technique shall be specified in
the Second Schedule unless such signature or technique is reliable.
(5) Every notification issued under sub-section (4) shall be laid before each
House of Parliament.]
4. Legal recognition of electronic records.-Where any law provides that information or any other matter shall be in writing or in the typewritten or printed form, then, notwithstanding anything contained in such law, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such information or matter is-
(a) rendered or made available in an electronic form; and
(b) accessible so as to be usable for a subsequent reference.
5 Legal recognition of 15 [electronic signature]. -Where any law provides that
information or any other matter shall be authenticated by affixing the
signature or any document shall be signed or bear the signature of any person,
then, notwithstanding anything contained in such law, such requirement shall
be deemed to have been satisfied, if such information or matter is
authenticated by means of 16 [electronic signature] affixed in such manner as
may be prescribed by the Central Government. Explanation.- For the purposes of
this section, "signed", with its grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, shall, with reference to a person, meanaffixing of his hand
written signature or any mark on any document and the expression "signature"
shall be construed accordingly.
6 Use of electronic records and  17 [electronic signatures] in Government and
its agencies. -
(1) Where any law provides for-
(a) the filing of any form, application or any other document with any office,
authority, body or agency owned or controlled by the appropriate Government in
a particular manner;
(b) the issue or grant of any licence, permit, sanction or approval by
whatever name called in a particular manner;
(c) the receipt or payment of money in a particular manner, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing,
issue, grant, receipt or payment, as the case may be, is effected by means of
such electronic form as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government.
(2) The appropriate Government may, for the purposes of sub-section (1), by
rules, prescribe-
(a) the manner and format in which such electronic records shall be filed,
created or issued;
(b) the manner or method of payment of any fee or charges for filing, creation
or issue any electronic record under clause (a).
18 [ 6A Delivery of services by service provider. -
(1) The appropriate Government may, for the purposes of this Chapter and for
efficient delivery of services to the public through electronic means
authorise, by order, any service provider to set-up, maintain and upgrade the
computerised facilities and perform such other services as it may specify by
notification in the Official Gazette. Explanation. -For the purposes of this
section, service provider so authorised includes any individual, private
agency, private company, partnership firm, sole proprietor firm or any such
other body or agency which has been granted permission by the appropriate
Government to offer services through electronic means in accordance with the
policy governing such service sector.
(2) The appropriate Government may also authorise any service provider
authorised under sub-section (1) to collect, retain and appropriate such
service charges, as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government for the
purpose of providing such services, from the person availing such service.
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the appropriate Government
may authorise the service providers to collect, retain and appropriate service
charges under this section notwithstanding the fact that there is no express
provision under the Act, rule, regulation or notification under which the
service is provided to collect, retain and appropriate e-service charges by
the service providers.
(4) The appropriate Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify the scale of service charges which may be charged and collected by the
service providers under this section: Provided that the appropriate Government
may specify different scale of service charges for different types of
services.]
7. Retention of electronic records.-
(1) Where any law provides that documents, records or information shall be
retained for any specific period, then, that requirement shall be deemed to
have been satisfied if such documents, records or information are retained in
the electronic form, if-
(a) the information contained therein remains accessible so as to be usable
for a subsequent reference;
(b) the electronic record is retained in the format in which it was originally
generated, sent or received or in a format which can be demonstrated to
represent accurately the information originally generated, sent or received;
(c) the details which will facilitate the identification of the origin,
destination, date and time of despatch or receipt of such electronic record
are available in the electronic record: Provided that this clause does not
apply to any information which is automatically generated solely for the
purpose of enabling an electronic record to be despatched or received.
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to any law that expressly provides for
the retention of documents, records or information in the form of electronic
records.
19 [ 7A Audit of documents, etc., maintained in electronic form. -Where in any
law for the time being in force, there is a provision for audit of documents,
records or information, that provision shall also be applicable for audit of
documents, records or information processed and maintained in the electronic
form.]
8 Publication of rule, regulation, etc., in Electronic Gazette. —Where any law
provides that any rule, regulation, order, bye-law, notification or any other
matter shall be published in the Official Gazette, then, such requirement
shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, bye-
law, notification or any other matter is published in the Official Gazette or
Electronic Gazette: Provided that where any rule, regulation, order, by-law,
notification or any other matter is published in the Official Gazette or
Electronic Gazette, the date of publication shall be deemed to be the date of
the Gazette which was first published in any form.
9. Sections 6, 7 and 8 not to confer right to insist document should be accepted in electronic form.-Nothing contained in sections 6, 7 and 8 shall confer a right upon any person to insist that any Ministry or Department of the Central Government or the State Government or any authority or body established by or under any law or controlled or funded by the Central or State Government should accept, issue, create, retain and preserve any document in the form of electronic records or effect any monetary transaction in the electronic form.
10 Power to make rules by Central Government in respect of 20 [electronic
signature]. -The Central Government may, for the purposes of this Act, by
rules, prescribe-
(a) the type of 20 [electronic signature];
(b) the manner and format in which the 20 [electronic signature] shall be
affixed;
(c) the manner or procedure which facilitates identification of the person
affixing the 20 [electronic signature];
(d) control processes and procedures to ensure adequate integrity, security
and confidentiality of electronic records or payments; and
(e) any other matter which is necessary to give legal effect to 21 [electronic
signatures].
[ 10A Validity of contracts formed through electronic means. -Where in a
contract formation, the communication of proposals, the acceptance of
proposals, the revocation of proposals and acceptances, as the case may be,
are expressed in electronic form or by means of an electronic record, such
contract shall not be deemed to be unenforceable solely on the ground that
such electronic form or means was used for that purpose.]
11. Attribution of electronic records.-An electronic record shall be attributed to the originator,-
(a) if it was sent by the originator himself;
(b) by a person who had the authority to act on behalf of the originator in
respect of that electronic record; or
(c) by an information system programmed by or on behalf of the originator to
operate automatically.
12 Acknowledgement of receipt. -
(1) Where the originator has not 22 [stipulated] that the acknowledgement of
receipt of electronic record be given in a particular form or by a particular
method, an acknowledgement may be given by-
(a) any communication by the addressee, automated or otherwise; or
(b) any conduct of the addressee, sufficient to indicate to the originator
that the electronic record has been received.
(2) Where the originator has stipulated that the electronic record shall be
binding only on receipt of an acknowledgement of such electronic record by
him, then, unless acknowledgement has been so received, the electronic record
shall be deemed to have been never sent by the originator.
(3) Where the originator has not stipulated that the electronic record shall
be binding only on receipt of such acknowledgement, and the acknowledgement
has not been received by the originator within the time specified or agreed
or, if no time has been specified or agreed to within a reasonable time, then,
the originator may give notice to the addressee stating that no
acknowledgement has been received by him and specifying a reasonable time by
which the acknowledgement must be received by him and if no acknowledgement is
received within the aforesaid time limit he may after giving notice to the
addressee, treat the electronic record as though it has never been sent.
13. Time and place of despatch and receipt of electronic record.-
(1) Save as otherwise agreed to between the originator and the addressee, the
despatch of an electronic record occurs when it enters a computer resource
outside the control of the originator.
(2) Save as otherwise agreed between the originator and the addressee, the
time of receipt of an electronic record shall be determined as follows,
namely:-
(a) if the addressee has designated a computer resource for the purpose of
receiving electronic records,-
(i) receipt occurs at the time when the electronic record enters the
designated computer resource; or
(ii) if the electronic record is sent to a computer resource of the addressee
that is not the designated computer resource, receipt occurs at the time when
the electronic record is retrieved by the addressee;
(b) if the addressee has not designated a computer resource along with
specified timings, if any, receipt occurs when the electronic record enters
the computer resource of the addressee.
(3) Save as otherwise agreed to between the originator and the addressee, an
electronic record is deemed to be despatched at the place where the originator
has his place of business, and is deemed to be received at the place where the
addressee has his place of business.
(4) The provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply notwithstanding that the
place where the computer resource is located may be different from the place
where the electronic record is deemed to have been received under sub-section
(3).
(5) For the purposes of this section,-
(a) if the originator or the addressee has more than one place of business,
the principal place of business, shall be the place of business;
(b) if the originator or the addressee does not have a place of business, his
usual place of residence shall be deemed to be the place of business;
(c) "usual place of residence", in relation to a body corporate, means the
place where it is registered.
14. Secure electronic record.-Where any security procedure has been applied to an electronic record at a specific point of time, then such record shall be deemed to be a secure electronic record from such point of time to the time of verification.
23 [ 15 Secure electronic signature. -An electronic signature shall be deemed
to be a secure electronic signature if-
(i) the signature creation data, at the time of affixing signature, was under
the exclusive control of signatory and no other person; and
(ii) the signature creation data was stored and affixed in such exclusive
manner as may be prescribed. Explanation. -In case of digital signature, the
"signature creation data" means the private key of the subscriber.]
"15. Secure digital signature. -If, by application of a security procedure
agreed to by the parties concerned, it can be verified that a digital
signature, at the time it was affixed, was-
(a) unique to the subscriber affixing it;
(b) capable of identifying such subscriber;
(c) created in a manner or using a means under the exclusive control of the
subscriber and is linked to the electronic record to which it relates in such
a manner that if the electronic record was altered the digital signature would
be invalidated, then such digital signature shall be deemed to be a secure
digital signature."
24 [ 16 Security procedures and practices. -The Central Government may, for
the purposes of sections 14 and 15, prescribe the security procedures and
practices: Provided that in prescribing such security procedures and
practices, the Central Government shall have regard to the commercial
circumstances, nature of transactions and such other related factors as it may
consider appropriate.] "16. Security procedure. -The Central Government shall,
for the purposes of this Act, prescribe the security procedure having regard
to commercial circumstances prevailing at the time when the procedure was
used, including-
(a) the nature of the transaction;
(b) the level of sophistication of the parties with reference to their
technological capacity;
(c) the volume of similar transactions engaged in by other parties;
(d) the availability of alternatives offered to but rejected by any party;
(e) the cost of alternative procedures; and
(f) the procedures in general use for similar types of transactions or
communications."
17 Appointment of Controller and other officers. -
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint a Controller of Certifying Authorities for the purposes of this Act
and may also by the same or subsequent notification, appoint such number of
Deputy Controllers 25 [Assistant Controllers, other officers and employees] as
it deems fit.
(2) The Controller shall discharge his functions under this Act subject to the
general control and directions of the Central Government.
(3) The Deputy Controllers and Assistant Controllers shall perform the
functions assigned to them by the Controller under the general superintendence
and control of the Controller.
(4) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service of
Controller, Deputy Controllers 26 [Assistant Controllers, other officers and
employees] shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
(5) The Head Office and Branch Office of the office of the Controller shall be
at such places as the Central Government may specify, and these may be
established at such places as the Central Government may think fit.
(6) There shall be a seal of the Office of the Controller.
18 Functions of Controller. -The Controller may perform all or any of the
following functions, namely:-
(a) exercising supervision over the activities of the Certifying Authorities;
(b) certifying public keys of the Certifying Authorities;
(c) laying down the standards to be maintained by the Certifying Authorities;
(d) specifying the qualifications and experience which employees of the
Certifying Authority should possess;
(e) specifying the conditions subject to which the Certifying Authorities
shall conduct their business;
(f) specifying the contents of written, printed or visual materials and
advertisements that may be distributed or used in respect of a 1 [Electronic
Signature] Certificate and the public key;
(g) specifying the form and content of a 27 [Electronic Signature] Certificate
and the key;
(h) specifying the form and manner in which accounts shall be maintained by
the Certifying Authorities;
(i) specifying the terms and conditions subject to which auditors may be
appointed and the remuneration to be paid to them;
(j) facilitating the establishment of any electronic system by a Certifying
Authority either solely or jointly with other Certifying Authorities and
regulation of such systems;
(k) specifying the manner in which the Certifying Authorities shall conduct
their dealings with the subscribers;
(l) resolving any conflict of interests between the Certifying Authorities and
the subscribers;
(m) laying down the duties of the Certifying Authorities;
(n) maintaining a database containing the disclosure record of every
Certifying Authority containing such particulars as may be specified by
regulations, which shall be accessible to public.
19 Recognition of foreign Certifying Authorities. -
(1) Subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified, by
regulations, the Controller may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, and by notification in the Official Gazette, recognise any foreign
Certifying Authority as a Certifying Authority for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Where any Certifying Authority is recognised under sub-section (1), the 28
[Electronic Signature] Certificate issued by such Certifying Authority shall
be valid for the purposes of this Act.
(3) The Controller may, if he is satisfied that any Certifying Authority has
contravened any of the conditions and restrictions subject to which it was
granted recognition under sub-section (1) he may, for reasons to be recorded
in writing, by notification in the Official Gazette, revoke such recognition.
20 Controller to act as repository .—
(1) The Controller shall be the repository of all Digital Signature
Certificates issued under this Act. (2) The Controller shall-
(a) make use of hardware, software and procedures that are secure from
intrusion and misuse; (b) observe such other standards as may be prescribed by
the Central Government, to ensure that the secrecy and security of the digital
signatures are assured.
(3) The Controller shall maintain a computerised data base of all public keys
in such a manner that such data base and the public keys are available to any
member of the public.
21 Licence to issue 29 [Electronic Signature] Certificates. -
(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), any person may make an
application to the Controller for a licence to issue 29 [Electronic Signature]
Certificates.
(2) No licence shall be issued under sub-section (1), unless the applicant
fulfills such requirements with respect to qualification, expertise, manpower,
financial resources and other infrastructure facilities, which are necessary
to issue 29 [Electronic Signature] Certificates as may be prescribed by the
Central Government.
(3) A licence granted under this section shall-
(a) be valid for such period as may be prescribed by the Central Government;
(b) not be transferable or heritable;
(c) be subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by the
regulations.
22 Application for licence . -
(1) Every application for issue of a licence shall be in such form as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.
(2) Every application for issue of a licence shall be accompanied by-
(a) a certification practice statement;
(b) a statement including the procedures with respect to identification of the
applicant;
(c) payment of such fees, not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees as may be
prescribed by the Central Government;
(d) such other documents, as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
23. Renewal of licence.-An application for renewal of a licence shall be-
(a) in such form;
(b) accompanied by such fees, not exceeding five thousand rupees, as may be
prescribed by the Central Government and shall be made not less than forty-
five days before the date of expiry of the period of validity of the licence.
24. Procedure for grant or rejection of licence.-The Controller may, on receipt of an application under sub-section
(1) of section 21, after considering the documents accompanying the
application and such other factors, as he deems fit, grant the licence or
reject the application: Provided that no application shall be rejected under
this section unless the applicant has been given a reasonable opportunity of
presenting his case.
25. Suspension of licence.-
(1) The Controller may, if he is satisfied after making such inquiry, as he
may think fit, that a Certifying Authority has-
(a) made a statement in, or in relation to, the application for the issue or
renewal of the licence, which is incorrect or false in material particulars;
(b) failed to comply with the terms and conditions subject to which the
licence was granted;
30 [(c) failed to maintain the procedures and standards specified in section
30;]
(d) contravened any provisions of this Act, rule, regulation or order made
thereunder; revoke the licence: Provided that no licence shall be revoked
unless the Certifying Authority has been given a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against the proposed revocation.
(2) The Controller may, if he has reasonable cause to believe that there is
any ground for revoking a licence under sub-section (1), by order, suspend
such liecnce pending the completion of any enquiry ordered by him: Provided
that no licence shall be suspended for a period exceeding ten days unless the
Certifying Authority has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the proposed suspension.
(3) No Certifying Authority whose licence has been suspended shall issue any
Digital Signature Certificate during such suspension.
26. Notice of suspension or revocation of licence.-
(1) Where the licence of the Certifying Authority is suspended or revoked, the
Controller shall publish notice of such suspension or revocation, as the case
may be, in the data base maintained by him.
(2) Where one or more repositories are specified, the Controller shall publish
notices of such suspension or revocation, as the case may be, in all such
repositories: Provided that the data base containing the notice of such
suspension or revocation, as the case may be, shall be made available through
a web site which shall be accessible round the clock: Provided further that
the Controller may, if he considers necessary, publicise the contents of data
base in such electronic or other media, as he may consider appropriate.
27. Power to delegate.-The Controller may, in writing, authorise the Deputy Controller, Assistant Controller or any officer to exercise any of the powers of the Controller under this Chapter.
28 Power to investigate contraventions. -
(1) The Controller or any officer authorised by him in this behalf shall take
up for investigation any contravention of the provisions of this Act, rules or
regulations made thereunder.
(2) The Controller or any officer authorised by him in this behalf shall
exercise the like powers which are conferred on Income-tax authorities under
Chapter XIII of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), and shall exercise such
powers, subject to such limitations laid down under that Act.
29 Access to computers and data. -
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 69, the
Controller or any person authorised by him shall, if he has reasonable cause
to suspect that 31 [any contravention of the provisions of this Chapter] has
been committed, have access to any computer system, any apparatus, data or any
other material connected with such system, for the purpose of searching or
causing a search to be made for obtaining any information or data contained in
or available to such computer system.
(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the Controller or any person
authorised by him may, by order, direct any person incharge of, or otherwise
concerned with the operation of, the computer system, data apparatus or
material, to provide him with such reasonable technical and other assistance
as he may consider necessary.
30 Certifying Authority to follow certain procedures. -Every Certifying
Authority shall,-
(a) make use of hardware, software, and procedures that are secure from
intrusion and misuse;
(b) provide a reasonable level of reliability in its services which are
reasonably suited to the performance of intended functions;
(c) adhere to security procedures to ensure that the secrecy and privacy of
the 32 [electronic signatures] are assured; 33 [***]
34 [(ca) be the repository of all Electronic Signature Certificates issues
under this Act;]
34 [(cb) publish information regarding its practices, Electronic Signature
Certificates and current status of such certificate; and]
(d) observe such other standards as may be specified by regulations.
31. Certifying Authority to ensure compliance of the Act, etc.-Every Certifying Authority shall ensure that every person employed or otherwise engaged by it complies, in the course of his employment or engagement, with the provisions of this Act, rules, regulations or orders made thereunder.
32. Display of licence.-Every Certifying Authority shall display its licence at a conspicuous place of the premises in which it carries on its business.
33. Surrender of licence.-
(1) Every Certifying Authority whose licence is suspended or revoked shall
immediately after such suspension or revocation, surrender the licence to the
Controller.
(2) Where any Certifying Authority fails to surrender a licence under sub-
section (1), the person in whose favour a licence is issued, shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend up to
six months or a fine which may extend up to ten thousand rupees or with both.
34 Disclosure. -
(1) Every Certifying Authority shall disclose in the manner specified by
regulations-
(a) its 35 [Electronic Signature] Certificate 36 [***]
(b) any certification practice statement relevant thereto;
(c) notice of the revocation or suspension of its Certifying Authority
certificate, if any; and
(d) any other fact that materially and adversely affects either the
reliability of a 35 [Electronic Signature] Certificate, which that Authority
has issued, or the Authority's ability to perform its services.
(2) Where in the opinion of the Certifying Authority any event has occurred or
any situation has arisen which may materially and adversely affect the
integrity of its computer system or the conditions subject to which an 35
[Electronic Signature] Certificate was granted, then, the Certifying Authority
shall-
(a) use reasonable efforts to notify any person who is likely to be affected
by that occurrence; or
(b) act in accordance with the procedure specified in its certification
practice statement to deal with such event or situation.
35 Certifying authority to issue 37 [Electronic Signature] Certificate. -
(1) Any person may make an application to the Certifying Authority for the
issue of an 37 [Electronic Signature] Certificate in such form as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.
(2) Every such application shall be accompanied by such fee not exceeding
twenty-five thousand rupees as may be prescribed by the Central Government, to
be paid to the Certifying Authority: Provided that while prescribing fees
under sub-section (2) different fees may be prescribed for different classes
of applicants.
(3) Every such application shall be accompanied by a certification practice
statement or where there is no such statement, a statement containing such
particulars, as may be specified by regulations.
(4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the Certifying
Authority may, after consideration of the certification practice statement or
the other statement under sub-section (3) and after making such enquiries as
it may deem fit, grant the 37 [Electronic Signature] Certificate or for
reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the application: 38 [***] 39
[Provided] that no application shall be rejected unless the applicant has been
given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposed
rejection.
36 Representations upon issuance of Digital Signature Certificate. -A
Certifying Authority while issuing a Digital Signature Certificate shall
certify that-
(a) it has complied with the provisions of this Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder;
(b) it has published the Digital Signature Certificate or otherwise made it
available to such person relying on it and the subscriber has accepted it;
(c) the subscriber holds the private key corresponding to the public key,
listed in the Digital Signature Certificate;
40 [(ca) the subscriber holds a private key which is capable of creating a
digital signature;]
40 [(cb) the public key to be listed in the certificate can be used to verify
a digital signature affixed by the private key held by the subscriber;]
(d) the subscriber's public key and private key constitute a functioning key
pair;
(e) the information contained in the Digital Signature Certificate is
accurate; and
(f) it has no knowledge of any material fact, which if it had been included in
the Digital Signature Certificate would adversely affect the reliability of
the representations in clauses (a) to (d).
37. Suspension of Digital Signature Certificate.-
(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Certifying Authority
which has issued a Digital Signature Certificate may suspend such Digital
Signature Certificate,-
(a) on receipt of a request to that effect from-
(i) the subscriber listed in the Digital Signature Certificate; or
(ii) any person duly authorised to act on behalf of that subscriber;
(b) if it is of opinion that the Digital Signature Certificate should be
suspended in public interest.
(2) A Digital Signature Certificate shall not be suspended for a period
exceeding fifteen days unless the subscriber has been given an opportunity of
being heard in the matter.
(3) On suspension of a Digital Signature Certificate under this section, the
Certifying Authority shall communicate the same to the subscriber.
38. Revocation of Digital Signature Certificate.-
(1) A Certifying Authority may revoke a Digital Signature Certificate issued
by it-
(a) where the subscriber or any other person authorised by him makes a request
to that effect; or
(b) upon the death of the subscriber; or
(c) upon the dissolution of the firm or winding up of the company where the
subscriber is a firm or a company.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) and without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1), a Certifying Authority may revoke a Digital
Signature Certificate which has been issued by it at any time, if it is of
opinion that-
(a) a material fact represented in the Digital Signature Certificate is false
or has been concealed;
(b) a requirement for issuance of the Digital Signature Certificate was not
satisfied;
(c) the Certifying Authority's private key or security system was compromised
in a manner materially affecting the Digital Signature Certificate's
reliability;
(d) the subscriber has been declared insolvent or dead or where a subscriber
is a firm or a company, which has been dissolved, wound-up or otherwise ceased
to exist.
(3) A Digital Signature Certificate shall not be revoked unless the subscriber
has been given an opportunity of being heard in the matter.
(4) On revocation of a Digital Signature Certificate under this section, the
Certifying Authority shall communicate the same to the subscriber.
39. Notice of suspension or revocation.-
(1) Where a Digital Signature Certificate is suspended or revoked under
section 37 or section 38, the Certifying Authority shall publish a notice of
such suspension or revocation, as the case may be, in the repository specified
in the Digital Signature Certificate for publication of such notice.
(2) Where one or more repositories are specified, the Certifying Authority
shall publish notices of such suspension or revocation, as the case may be, in
all such repositories.
40. Generating key pair.-Where any Digital Signature Certificate, the public key of which corresponds to the private key of that subscriber which is to be listed in the Digital Signature Certificate has been accepted by a subscriber, 41 [***] the subscriber shall generate 42 [that key] pair by applying the security procedure.
43 [ 40A Duties of subscriber of Electronic Signature Certificate. -In respect
of Electronic Signature Certificate the subscriber shall perform such duties
as may be prescribed.]
41. Acceptance of Digital Signature Certificate.-
(1) A subscriber shall be deemed to have accepted a Digital Signature
Certificate if he publishes or authorises the publication of a Digital
Signature Certificate-
(a) to one or more persons;
(b) in a repository; or otherwise demonstrates his approval of the Digital
Signature Certificate in any manner.
(2) By accepting a Digital Signature Certificate the subscriber certifies to
all who reasonably rely on the information contained in the Digital Signature
Certificate that-
(a) the subscriber holds the private key corresponding to the public key
listed in the Digital Signature Certificate and is entitled to hold the same;
(b) all representations made by the subscriber to the Certifying Authority and
all material relevant to the information contained in the Digital Signature
Certificate are true;
(c) all information in the Digital Signature Certificate that is within the
knowledge of the subscriber is true.
42. Control of private key.-
(1) Every subscriber shall exercise reasonable care to retain control of the
private key corresponding to the public key listed in his Digital Signature
Certificate and take all steps to prevent its disclosure 44 [***].
(2) If the private key corresponding to the public key listed in the Digital
Signature Certificate has been compromised, then, the subscriber shall
communicate the same without any delay to the Certifying Authority in such
manner as may be specified by the regulations. Explanation.-For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby declared that the subscriber shall be liable till he has
informed the Certifying Authority that the private key has been compromised.
43  45 [Penalty and compensation] for damage to computer, computer system,
etc. -If any person without permission of the owner or any other person who is
incharge of a computer, computer system or computer network,-
(a) accesses or secures access to such computer, computer system or computer
network 46 [or computer resource];
(b) downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer data base or information
from such computer, computer system or computer network including information
or data held or stored in any removable storage medium;
(c) introduces or causes to be introduced any computer contaminant or computer
virus into any computer, computer system or computer network;
(d) damages or causes to be damaged any computer, computer system or computer
network, data, computer data base or any other programmes residing in such
computer, computer system or computer network;
(e) disrupts or causes disruption of any computer, computer system or computer
network;
(f) denies or causes the denial of access to any person authorised to access
any computer, computer system or computer network by any means;
(g) provides any assistance to any person to facilitate access to a computer,
computer system or computer network in contravention of the provisions of this
Act, rules or regulations made thereunder;
(h) charges the services availed of by a person to the account of another
person by tampering with or manipulating any computer, computer system, or
computer network,
47 [(i) destroys, deletes or alters any information residing in a computer
resource or diminishes its value or utility or affects it injuriously by any
means;]
47 [(j) steal, conceals, destroys or alters or causes any person to steal,
conceal, destroy or alter any computer source code used for a computer
resource with an intention to cause damage;] 48 [he shall be liable to pay
damages by way of compensation to the person so affected]. Explanation.- For
the purposes of this section,-
(i) "computer contaminant" means any set of computer instructions that are
designed-
(a) to modify, destroy, record, transmit data or programme residing within a
computer, computer system or computer network; or
(b) by any means to usurp the normal operation of the computer, computer
system, or computer network;
(ii) "computer database" means a representation of information, knowledge,
facts, concepts or instructions in text, image, audio, video that are being
prepared or have been prepared in a formalised manner or have been produced by
a computer, computer system or computer network and are intended for use in a
computer, computer system or computer network;
(iii) "computer virus" means any computer instruction, information, data or
programme that destroys, damages, degrades or adversely affects the
performance of a computer resource or attaches itself to another computer
resource and operates when a programme, data or instruction is executed or
some other event takes place in that computer resource;
(iv) "damage" means to destroy, alter, delete, add, modify or rearrange any
computer resource by any means;
49 [(v) "computer source code" means the listing of programmes, computer
commands, design and layout and programme analysis of computer resource in any
form.]
comments
If any person without permission of the owner or any other person who is
incharge of a computer, computer system or computer network-
(i) accesses such computer, computer system or computer network or computer
resource; (ii) downloads, copies or computer system or computer network or
computer resource; (ii) downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer data-
base or information; (iii) introduces or causes to be introduced any computer
contaminant or computer virus; (iv) damages or causes to be damaged any
computer, computer system or computer network data, computer database or any
other programmes; (v) disrupts or causes disruption; (vi) denies or causes the
denial of access to any person authorised to access; (vii) provides any
assistance to any person to facilitate access in contravention of the
provisions of this Act; (viii) charges the services availed of by a person to
the account of another person by tampering with or manipulating any computer,
computer system or computer network; destroys, deletes or alters any
information residing in a computer resource or diminishes its value or utility
or affects it injuriously by any means; (x) steal, conceals, destroys or
alters or causes any person to steal, conceal, destroy or alter any computer
source code with intention to cause damage; he shall be liable to pay damages
by way of compensation to the person so affected.
50 [ 43A Compensation for failure to protect data. -Where a body corporate,
possessing, dealing or handling any sensitive personal data or information in
a computer resource which it owns, controls or operates, is negligent in
implementing and maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures and
thereby causes wrongful loss or wrongful gain to any person, such body
corporate shall be liable to pay damages by way of compensation to the person
so affected. Explanation. -For the purposes of this section,-
(i) "body corporate" means any company and includes a firm, sole
proprietorship or other association of individuals engaged in commercial or
professional activities;
(ii) "reasonable security practices and procedures" means security practices
and procedures designed to protect such information from unauthorised access,
damage, use, modification, disclosure or impairment, as may be specified in an
agreement between the parties or as may be specified in any law for the time
being in force and in the absence of such agreement or any law, such
reasonable security practices and procedures, as may be prescribed by the
Central Government in consultation with such professional bodies or
associations as it may deem fit;
(iii) "sensitive personal data or information" means such personal information
as may be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with such
professional bodies or associations as it may deem fit.]
44. Penalty for failure to furnish information, return, etc.-If any person who is required under this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder to-
(a) furnish any document, return or report to the Controller or the Certifying
Authority fails to furnish the same, he shall be liable to a penalty not
exceeding one lakh and fifty thousand rupees for each such failure;
(b) file any return or furnish any information, books or other documents
within the time specified therefor in the regulations fails to file return or
furnish the same within the time specified therefor in the regulations, he
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five thousand rupees for every day
during which such failure continues;
(c) maintain books of account or records, fails to maintain the same, he shall
be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten thousand rupees for every day during
which the failure continues.
45. Residuary penalty.-Whoever contravenes any rules or regulations made under this Act, for the contravention of which no penalty has been separately provided, shall be liable to pay a compensation not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees to the person affected by such contravention or a penalty not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees.
46 Power to adjudicate. -
(1) For the purpose of adjudging under this Chapter whether any person has
committed a contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule,
regulation, 51 [direction or order made thereunder which renders him liable to
pay penalty or compensation] the Central Government shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), appoint any officer not below the rank of a
Director to the Government of India or an equivalent officer of a State
Government to be an adjudicating officer for holding an inquiry in the manner
prescribed by the Central Government.
52 [(1A) The adjudicating officer appointed under sub-section (1) shall
exercise jurisdiction to adjudicate matters in which the claim for injury or
damage does not exceed rupees five crore: Provided that the jurisdiction in
respect of the claim for injury or damage exceeding rupees five crore shall
vest with the competent court.]
(2) The adjudicating officer shall, after giving the person referred to in
sub- section (1) a reasonable opportunity for making representation in the
matter and if, on such inquiry, he is satisfied that the person has committed
the contravention, he may impose such penalty or award such compensation as he
thinks fit in accordance with the provisions of that section.
(3) No person shall be appointed as an adjudicating officer unless he
possesses such experience in the field of Information Technology and legal or
judicial experience as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
(4) Where more than one adjudicating officers are appointed, the Central
Government shall specify by order the matters and places with respect to which
such officers shall exercise their jurisdiction.
(5) Every adjudicating officer shall have the powers of a civil court which
are conferred on the Cyber Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2) of section
58, and-
(a) all proceedings before it shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings
within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860);
(b) shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of sections 345 and
346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974);
53 [(c) shall be deemed to be a civil court for purposes of Order XXI of the
Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (5 of 1908).]
47. Factors to be taken into account by the adjudicating officer.-While adjudging the quantum of compensation under this Chapter, the adjudicating officer shall have due regard to the following factors, namely:-
(a) the amount of gain of unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a
result of the default;
(b) the amount of loss caused to any person as a result of the default;
(c) the repetitive nature of the default.
48 Establishment of Cyber Appellate Tribunal. -
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification, establish one or more
appellate tribunals to be known as the Cyber 54 [***] Appellate Tribunal.
(2) The Central Government shall also specify, in the notification referred to
in sub-section (1), the matters and places in relation to which the Cyber
Appellate Tribunal may exercise jurisdiction.
55 [ 49 Composition of Cyber Appellate Tribunal. -
(1) The Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall consist of a Chairperson and such
number of other Members, as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint: Provided that the person appointed as the Presiding
Officer of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal under the provisions of this Act
immediately before the commencement of the Information Technology (Amendment)
Act, 2008 shall be deemed to have been appointed as the Chairperson of the
said Cyber Appellate Tribunal under the provisions of this Act as amended by
the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008.
(2) The selection of Chairperson and Members of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal
shall be made by the Central Government in consultation with the Chief Justice
of India.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act-
(a) the jurisdiction, powers and authority of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may
be exercised by the Benches thereof;
(b) a Bench may be constituted by the Chairperson of the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal with one or two Members of such Tribunal as the Chairperson may deem
fit;
(c) the Benches of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall sit at New Delhi and at
such other places as the Central Government may, in consultation with the
Chairperson of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify;
(d) the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify the areas in relation to which each Bench of the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal may exercise its jurisdiction.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), the Chairperson of
the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may transfer a Member of such Tribunal from one
Bench to another Bench.
(5) If at any stage of the hearing of any case or matter it appears to the
Chairperson or a Member of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal that the case or
matter is of such a nature that it ought to be heard by a Bench consisting of
more Members, the case or matter may be transferred by the Chairperson to such
Bench as the Chairperson may deem fit. ] "49. Composition of Cyber Appellate
Tribunal. -A Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall consist of one person only
(hereinafter referred to as the Presiding Officer of the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal) to be appointed, by notification, by the Central Government.
56 [ 50 Qualifications for appointment as Chairperson and Members of Cyber
Appellate Tribunal. -
(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Chairperson of the
Cyber Appellate Tribunal unless he is, or has been, or is qualified to be, a
Judge of a High Court.
(2) The Members of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal, except the Judicial Member to
be appointed under sub-section (3), shall be appointed by the Central
Government from amongst persons, having special knowledge of, and professional
experience in, information technology, telecommunication, industry, management
or consumer affairs: Provided that a person shall not be appointed as a
Member, unless he is, or has been, in the service of the Central Government or
a State Government, and has held the post of Additional Secretary to the
Government of India or any equivalent post in the Central Government or State
Government for a period of not less than one year or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India or any equivalent post in the Central Government or State
Government for a period of not less than seven years.
(3) The Judicial Members of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall be appointed by
the Central Government from amongst persons who is or has been a member of the
Indian Legal Service and has held the post of Additional Secretary for a
period of not less than one year or Grade I post of that Service for a period
of not less than five years.]
(a) is, or has been, or is qualified to be, a Judge of a High Court; or
(b) is, or has been, a member of the Indian Legal Service and is holding or
has held a post in Grade I of that Service for at least three years.
57 [ 51 Term of office, conditions of service, etc., of Chairperson and
Members. -
(1) The Chairperson or Member of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall hold
office for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his
office or until he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier.
(2) Before appointing any person as the Chairperson or Member of the Cyber
Appellate Tribunal, the Central Government shall satisfy itself that the
person does not have any such financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially his functions as such Chairperson or Member.
(3) An officer of the Central Government or State Government on his selection
as the Chairperson or Member of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal, as the case may
be, shall have to retire from service before joining as such Chairperson or
Member.] "51. Term of office. -The Presiding Officer of a Cyber Appellate
Tribunal shall hold office for a term of five years from the date on which he
enters upon his office or until he attains the age of sixty-five years
whichever is earlier.
58 [ 52 Salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson and Members. -The salary and allowances payable to, and the other
terms and conditions of service including pension, gratuity and other
retirement benefits of, the Chairperson or a Member of the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed. ] "52. Salary, allowances and
other terms and conditions of service of Presiding Officer. -The salary and
allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service including
pension, gratuity and other retirement benefits of, the Presiding Officer of a
Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed: Provided that
neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions of
service of the Presiding Officers shall be varied to his disadvantage after
appointment."
59 [ 52A Powers of superintendence, direction, etc. -The Chairperson of the
Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall have powers of general superintendence and
directions in the conduct of the affairs of that Tribunal and he shall, in
addition to presiding over the meetings of the Tribunal, exercise and
discharge such powers and functions of the Tribunal as may be prescribed.]
60 [ 52B Distribution of business among Benches. -Where Benches are
constituted, the Chairperson of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may, by order,
distribute the business of that Tribunal amongst the Benches and also the
matters to be dealt with by each Bench.]
61 [ 52C Power of Chairperson to transfer cases. -On the application of any of
the parties and after notice to the parties, and after hearing such of them as
he may deem proper to be heard, or suo motu without such notice, the
Chairperson of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may transfer any case pending
before one Bench, for disposal to any other Bench.]
62 [ 52D Decision by majority. -If the Members of a Bench consisting of two
Members differ in opinion on any point, they shall state the point or points
on which they differ, and make a reference to the Chairperson of the Cyber
Appellate Tribunal who shall hear the point or points himself and such point
or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the
Members who have heard the case, including those who first heard it .]
53 Filling up of vacancies. -If, for reason other than temporary absence, any
vacancy occurs in the office of the 63 [Chairperson or Member, as the case may
be] of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal, then the Central Government shall appoint
another person in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill the
vacancy and the proceedings may be continued before the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is filled.
54 Resignation and removal. -
(1) The 64 [Chairperson or the Member] of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal may, by
notice in writing under his hand addressed to the Central Government, resign
his office: Provided that the said Presiding Officer shall, unless he is
permitted by the Central Government to relinquish his office sooner, continue
to hold office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of
such notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his
office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.
(2) The Presiding Officer of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall not be removed
from his office except by an order by the Central Government on the ground of
proved misbehaviour or incapacity after an inquiry made by a Judge of the
Supreme Court in which the Presiding Officer concerned has been informed of
the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in
respect of these charges.
(3) The Central Government may, by rules, regulate the procedure for the
investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the aforesaid Presiding
Officer.
55 Orders constituting Appellate Tribunal to be final and not to invalidate
its proceedings. -No order of the Central Government appointing any person as
the 65 [Chairperson or Member] of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall be called
in question in any manner and no act or proceeding before a Cyber Appellate
Tribunal shall be called in question in any manner on the ground merely of any
defect in the constitution of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal.
56 Staff of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal. -
(1) The Central Government shall provide the Cyber Appellate Tribunal with
such officers and employees as that Government may think fit.
(2) The officers and employees of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall discharge
their functions under general superintendence of the 66 [Chairperson].
(3) The salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of the officers
and employees of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be
prescribed by the Central Government.
57. Appeal to Cyber Appellate Tribunal.-
(1) Save as provided in sub-section (2), any person aggrieved by an order made
by controller or an adjudicating officer under this Act may prefer an appeal
to a Cyber Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter.
(2) No appeal shall lie to the Cyber Appellate Tribunal from an order made by
an adjudicating officer with the consent of the parties.
(3) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of
forty-five days from the date on which a copy of the order made by the
Controller or the adjudicating officer is received by the person aggrieved and
it shall be in such form and be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed:
Provided that the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may entertain an appeal after the
expiry of the said period of forty-five days if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.
(4) On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being
heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or
setting aside the order appealed against.
(5) The Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it
to the parties to the appeal and to the concerned Controller or adjudicating
officer.
(6) The appeal filed before the Cyber Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1)
shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be
made by it to dispose of the appeal finally within six months from the date of
receipt of the appeal.
58. Procedure and powers of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal.-
(1) The Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down
by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the
principles of natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act
and of any rules, the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall have powers to regulate
its own procedure including the place at which it shall have its sittings.
(2) The Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of discharging
its functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a civil court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in
respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents or other electronic
records;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
(e) reviewing its decisions;
(f) dismissing an application for default or deciding it ex parte;
(g) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(3) Every proceeding before the Cyber Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be
a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the
purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Cyber
Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).
59. Right to legal representation.-The appellant may either appear in person or authorise one or more legal practitioners or any of its officers to present his or its case before the Cyber Appellate Tribunal.
60. Limitation.-The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall, as far as may be, apply to an appeal made to the Cyber Appellate Tribunal.
61. Civil court not to have jurisdiction.-No court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter which an adjudicating officer appointed under this Act or the Cyber Appellate Tribunal constituted under this Act is empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act.
62. Appeal to High Court.-Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the High Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or order of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal to him on any question of fact or law arising out of such order: Provided that the High Court may, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed within a further period not exceeding sixty days.
63. Compounding of contraventions.-
(1) Any contravention under this 67 [Act] may, either before or after the
institution of adjudication proceedings, be compounded by the Controller or
such other officer as may be specially authorised by him in this behalf or by
the adjudicating officer, as the case may be, subject to such conditions as
the Controller or such other officer or the adjudicating officer may specify:
Provided that such sum shall not, in any case, exceed the maximum amount of
the penalty which may be imposed under this Act for the contravention so
compounded.
(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to a person who commits the same or
similar contravention within a period of three years from the date on which
the first contravention, committed by him, was compounded. Explanation.-For
the purposes of this sub-section, any second or subsequent contravention
committed after the expiry of a period of three years from the date on which
the contravention was previously compounded shall be deemed to be a first
contravention.
(3) Where any contravention has been compounded under sub-section (1), no
proceeding or further proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken against
the person guilty of such contravention in respect of the contravention so
compounded.
64 Recovery of 68 [penalty and compensation]. -A 69 [penalty imposed or
compensation awarded] under this Act, if it is not paid, shall be recovered as
an arrear of land revenue and the licence or the 70 [Electronic Signature]
Certificate, as the case may be, shall be suspended till the penalty is paid.
65. Tampering with computer source documents.-Whoever knowingly or intentionally conceals, destroys or alters or intentionally or knowingly causes another to conceal, destroy, or alter any computer source code used for a computer, computer programme, computer system or computer network, when the computer source code is required to be kept or maintained by law for the time being in force, shall be punishable with imprisonment up to three years, or with fine which may extend up to two lakh rupees, or with both. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, "computer source code" means the listing of programmes, computer commands, design and layout and programme analysis of computer resource in any form.
71 [ 66 Computer related offences. -If any person, dishonestly or
fraudulently, does any act referred to in section 43, he shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine
which may extend to five lakh rupees or with both. Explanation. -For the
purposes of this section,-
(a) the word "dishonestly" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 24
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);
(b) the word "fraudulently" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section
25 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
72 [ 66A Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication
service, etc. -Any person who sends, by means of a computer resource or a
communication device,-
(a) any information that is grossly offensive or has menacing character; or
(b) any information which he knows to be false, but for the purpose of causing
annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal
intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill will, persistently by making use of such
computer resource or a communication device; or
(c) any electronic mail or electronic mail message for the purpose of causing
annoyance or inconvenience or to deceive or to mislead the addressee or
recipient about the origin of such messages,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and with fine. Explanation. -For the purpose of this section, terms
"electronic mail" and "electronic mail message" means a message or information
created or transmitted or received on a computer, computer system, computer
resource or communication device including attachments in text, image, audio,
video and any other electronic record, which may be transmitted with the
message. ]
73 [ 66B Punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or
communication device. -Whoever dishonestly received or retains any stolen
computer resource or communication device knowing or having reason to believe
the same to be stolen computer resource or communication device, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to three years or with fine which may extend to rupees one lakh or with both.
]
74 [ 66C Punishment for identity theft. -Whoever, fraudulently or dishonestly
make use of the electronic signature, password or any other unique
identification feature of any other person, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years
and shall also be liable to fine with may extend to rupees one lakh. ]
75 [ 66D Punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource.
-Whoever, by means for any communication device or computer resource cheats by
personating, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine which
may extend to one lakh rupees. ]
76 [ 66E Punishment for violation of privacy. -Whoever, intentionally or
knowingly captures, publishes or transmits the image of a private area of any
person without his or her consent, under circumstances violating the privacy
of that person, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three
years or with fine not exceeding two lakh rupees, or with both. Explanation.
-For the purposes of this section-
(a) "transmit" means to electronically send a visual image with the intent
that it be viewed by a person or persons;
(b) "capture", with respect to an image, means to videotape, photograph, film
or record by any means;
(c) "private area" means the naked or undergarment clad genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or female breast;
(d) "publishes" means reproduction in the printed or electronic form and
making it available for public; e) "under circumstances violating privacy"
means circumstances in which a person can have a reasonable expectation that;-
(i) he or she could disrobe in privacy, without being concerned that an image
of his private area was being captured; or
(ii) any part of his or her private area would not be visible to the public,
regardless of whether that person is in a public or private place. ]
77 [ 67 Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in
electronic form. -Whoever publishes or transmits or causes to be published or
transmitted in the electronic form, any material which is lascivious or
appeals to the prurient interest or if its effect is such as to tend to
deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant
circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it,
shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to
five lakh rupees and in the event of second or subsequent conviction with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years
and also with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees. ]
67 Publishing of information which is obscene in electronic form. -Whoever
publishes or transmits or causes to be published in the electronic form, any
material which is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest or if its
effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely,
having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter
contained or embodied in it, shall be punished on first conviction with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years
and with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees and in the event of a second
or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to ten years and also with fine which may extend to two lakh
rupees."
78 [ 67A Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing
sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form. -Whoever publishes or
transmits or causes to be published or transmitted in the electronic form any
material which contains sexually explicit act or conduct shall be punished on
first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in
the event of second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to seven years and also with fine
which may extend to ten lakh rupees. ]
79 [ 67B Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting
children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form. -Whoever-
(a) publishes or transmites or causes to be published or transmitted material
in any electronic form which depicts children engaged in sexually esplicit act
or conduct; or
(b) creates text or digital images, collects, seeks, browses, downloads,
advertises, promotes, exchanges or distributes material in any electronic form
depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner; or
(c) cultivates, entices or induces children to online relationship with one or
more children for and on sexually explicit act or in a manner that may offend
a reasonable adult on the computer resource; or
(d) facilitates abusing children online, or
(e) records in any electronic form own abuse or that of others pertaining to
sexually explicit act with children, shall be punished on first conviction
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five
years and with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in the event of
second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either discription for a
term which may extend to seven years and also with fine which may extend to
ten lakh rupees:
Provided that provisions of section 67, section 67A and this section does not
extend to any book, pamphlet, paper, writing, drawing, painting representation
or figure in electronic form-
(i) the publication of which is proved to be justified as being for the public
good on the ground that such book, pamphlet, paper, writing drawing, painting
representation or figure is in the interest of science, literature, art or
learning or other objects of general concern; or
(ii) which is kept or used for bona fide heritage or religious purposes.
Explanation. -For the purposes of this section "children" means a person who
has not completed the age of 18 years.]
80 [ 67C Preservation and retention of information by intermediaries. -
(1) Intermediary shall preserve and retain such information as may be
specified for such duration and in such manner and format as the Central
Government may prescribe.
(2) Any intermediary who intentionally or knowingly contravenes the provisions
of sub-section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and also be liable to fine.]
68 Power of Controller to give directions. -
(1) The Controller may, by order, direct a Certifying Authority or any
employee of such Authority to take such measures or cease carrying on such
activities as specified in the order if those are necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Act, rules or any regulations made
thereunder.
81 [(2) Any person who intentionally or knowingly fails to comply with any
order under sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or a fine not
exceeding one lakh rupees or both.]
82 [ 69 Power to issue directions for interception or monitoring or decryption
of any information through any computer resource. -
(1) Where the Central Government or a State Government or any of its officers
specially authorised by the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, in this behalf may, if satisfied that it is necessary or
expedient to do in the interest of the sovereignty or integrity of India,
defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign
States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any
cognizable offence relating to above or for investigation of any offence, it
may, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), for reasons to be recorded
in writing, by order, direct any agency of the appropriate Government to
intercept, monitor or decrypt or cause to be intercepted or monitored or
decrypted any information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any
computer resource.
(2) The procedure and safeguards subject to which such interception or
monitoring or decryption may be carried out, shall be such as may be
prescribed.
(3) The subscriber or intermediary or any person in-charge of the computer
resource shall, when called upon by any agency referred to in sub-section (1),
extend all facilities and technical assistance to-
(a) provide access to or secure access to the computer resource generating,
transmitting, receiving or storing such information; or
(b) intercept, monitor, or decrypt the information, as the case may be; or
(c) provide information stored in computer resource.
(4) The subscriber or intermediary or any person who fails to assist the
agency referred to in sub-section (3) shall be punished with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.]
83 [ 69A Power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any
information through any computer resource. -
(1) Where the Central Government or any of its officer specially authorised by
it in this behalf is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, in
the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security
of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for
preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to
above, it may subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) for reasons to be
recorded in writing, by order, direct any agency of the Government or
intermediary to block for access by the public or cause to be blocked for
access by the public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored
or hosted in any computer resource.
(2) The procedure and safeguards subject to which such blocking for access by
the public may be carried out, shall be such as may be prescribed.
(3) The intermediary who fails to comply with the direction issued under sub-
section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend
to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. ]
84 [ 69B Power to authorise to monitor and collect traffic data or information
through any computer resource for cyber security. -
(1) The Central Government may, to enhance cyber security and for
identification, analysis and prevention of intrusion or spread of computer
contaminant in the country, by notification in the Official Gazette, authorise
any agency of the Government to monitor and collect traffic data or
information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer
resource.
(2) The intermediary or any person in-charge of the computer resource shall,
when called upon by the agency which has been authorised under sub-section
(1), provide technical assistance and extend all facilities to such agency to
enable online access or to secure and provide online access to the computer
resource generating, transmitting, receiving or storing such traffic data or
information.
(3) The procedure and safeguards for monitoring and collecting traffic data or
information, shall be such as may be prescribed.
(4) Any intermediary who intentionally or knowingly contravenes the provisions
of sub-section (2) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation. -For the
purposes of this section,-
(i) "computer contaminant" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section
43;
(ii) "traffic data" means any data identifying or purporting to identify any
person, computer system or computer network or location to or from which the
communication is or may be transmitted and includes communications origin,
destination, route, time, data, size, duration or type of underlying service
or any other information.]
70 Protected system. - 85 [
(1) The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
declare any computer resource which directly or indirectly affects the
facility of Critical Information Infrastructure, to be a protected system.
Explanation. -For the purposes of this section, "Critical Information
Infrastructure" means the computer resource, the incapacitation or destruction
of which, shall have debilitating impact on national security, economy, public
health or safety.]
(2) The appropriate Government may, by order in writing, authorise the persons
who are authorised to access protected systems notified under sub-section (1).
(3) Any person who secures access or attempts to secure access to a protected
system in contravention of the provisions of this section shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten
years and shall also be liable to fine.
86 [(4) The Central Government shall prescribe the information security
practices and procedures for such protected system.]
87 [ 70A National nodal agency. -
(1) The Central Government may, by notification published in the Official
Gazette, designate any organisation of the Government as the national nodal
agency in respect of Critical Information Infrastructure Protection.
(2) The national nodal agency designated under sub-section (1) shall be
responsible for all measures including Research and Development relating to
protection of Critical Information Infrastructure.
(3) The manner of performing functions and duties of the agency referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed.]
88 [ 70B Indian Computer Emergency Response Team to serve as national agency
for incident response. -
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint an agency of the Government to be called the Indian Computer Emergency
Response Team.
(2) The Central Government shall provide the agency referred to in sub-section
(1) with a Director-General and such other officers and employees as may be
prescribed.
(3) The salary and allowances and terms and conditions of the Director-
General and other officers and employees shall be such as may be prescribed.
(4) The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team shall serve as the national
agency for performing the following functions in the area of cyber security,-
(a) collection, analysis and dissemination of information on cyber incidents;
(b) forecast and alerts of cyber security incidents;
(c) emergency measures for handling cyber security incidents;
(d) coordination of cyber incidents response activities;
(e) issue guidelines, advisories, vulnerability notes and whitepapers relating
to information security practices, procedures, preventation, response and
reporting of cyber incidents;
(f) such other functions relating to cyber security as may be prescribed.
(5) The manner of performing functions and duties of the agency referred to in
sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed.
(6) For carrying out the provisions of sub-section (4), the agency referred to
in sub-section (1) may call for information and give direction to the service
providers, intermediaries, data centres, body corporate and any other person.
(7) Any service provider, intermediaries, data centres, body corporate or
person who fails to provide the information called for or comply with the
direction under sub-section (6), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one lakh
rupees or with both.
(8) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this section, except
on a complaint made by an officer authorised in this behalf by the agency
referred to in sub-section (1).]
71 Penalty for misrepresentation. -Whoever makes any misrepresentation to, or
suppresses any material fact from the Controller or the Certifying Authority
for obtaining any licence or 89 [Electronic Signature] Certificate, as the
case may be, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to two years, or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both.
72. Penalty for breach of confidentiality and privacy.-Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, if any person who, in pursuance of any of the powers conferred under this Act, rules or regulations made thereunder, has secured access to any electronic record, book, register, correspondence, information, document or other material without the consent of the person concerned discloses such electronic record, book, register, correspondence, information, document or other material to any other person shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both.
90 [ 72A Punishment for disclosure of information in breach of lawful
contract. -Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, any person including an intermediary who, while providing
services under the terms of lawful contract, has secured access to any
material containing personal information about another person, with the intent
to cause or knowing that he is likely to cause wrongful loss or wrongful gain
discloses, without the consent of the person concerned, or in breach of a
lawful contract, such material to any other person, shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which
may extend to five lakh rupees, or with both.]
73 Penalty for publishing 91 [Electronic Signature] Certificate false in
certain particulars. -
(1) No person shall publish a 92 [Electronic Signature] Certificate or
otherwise make it available to any other person with the knowledge that-
(a) the Certifying Authority listed in the certificate has not issued it; or
(b) the subscriber listed in the certificate has not accepted it; or
(c) the certificate has been revoked or suspended, unless such publication is
for the purpose of verifying a 92 [electronic signature] created prior to such
suspension or revocation.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both.
74 Publication for fraudulent purpose. -Whoever knowingly creates, publishes
or otherwise makes available a 93 [Electronic Signature] Certificate for any
fraudulent or unlawful purpose shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to one lakh
rupees, or with both. If any person knowingly creates, publishes or otherwise
makes available a Electronic Signature Certificate for any fraudulent or
unlawful purpose, he shall be punished with imprisonment upto two years, or
with fine upto one lakh rupees, or with both.
75. Act to apply for offence or contravention committed outside India.-
(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the provisions of this Act
shall apply also to any offence or contravention committed outside India by
any person irrespective of his nationality.
(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), this Act shall apply to an offence or
contravention committed outside India by any person if the act or conduct
constituting the offence or contravention involves a computer, computer system
or computer network located in India.
76. Confiscation.-Any computer, computer system, floppies, compact disks, tape drives or any other accessories related thereto, in respect of which any provision of this Act, rules, orders or regulations made thereunder has been or is being contravened, shall be liable to confiscation: Provided that where it is established to the satisfaction of the court adjudicating the confiscation that the person in whose possession, power or control of any such computer, computer system, floppies, compact disks, tape drives or any other accessories relating thereto is found is not responsible for the contravention of the provisions of this Act, rules, orders or regulations made thereunder, the court may, instead of making an order for confiscation of such computer, computer system, floppies, compact disks, tape drives or any other accessories related thereto, make such other order authorised by this Act against the person contravening of the provisions of this Act, rules, orders or regulations made thereunder as it may think fit.
77. Penalties or confiscation not to interfere with other punishments.-No penalty imposed or confiscation made under this Act shall prevent the imposition of any other punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under any other law for the time being in force.
78 Power to investigate offences. -Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), a police officer not below the
rank of 94 [Inspector] shall investigate any offence under this Act.
95 [ 79 Exemption from liability of intermediary in certain cases. -
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force
but subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), an intermediary
shall not be liable for any third party information, data, or communication
link made available or hosted by him.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply if-
(a) the function of the intermediary is limited to providing access to a
communication system over which information made available by third parties is
transmitted or temporarily stored or hosted; or
(b) the intermediary does not-
(i) initiate the transmission,
(ii) select the receiver of the transmission, and
(iii) select or modify the information contained in the transmission;
(c) the intermediary observes due diligence while discharging his duties under
this Act and also observes such other guidelines as the Central Government may
prescribe in this behalf.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply if-
(a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced, whether by
threats or promise or othorise in the commission of the unlawful act;
(b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being notified by the appropriate
Government or its agency that any information, data or communication link
residing in or connected to a computer resource, controlled by the
intermediary is being used to commit the unlawful act, the intermediary fails
to expeditiously remove or disable access to that material on that resource
without vitiating the evidence in any manner.
Explanation. -For the purpose of this section, the expression "third party
information" means any information dealt with by an intermediary in his
capacity as an intermediary.]
96 [ 79A Central Government to notify Examiner of Electronic Evidence. -The
Central Government may, for the purposes of providing expert opinion on
electronic form evidence before any court or other authority specify, by
notification in the Official Gazette, any Department, body or agency of the
Central Government or a State Government as an Examiner of Electronic
Evidence. Explanation. -For the purposes of this section, "electronic form
evidence" means any information of probative value that is either stored or
transmitted in electronic form and includes computer evidence, digital audio,
digital video, cell phones, digital fax machines.]
80. Power of police officer and other officers to enter, search, etc.-
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), any police officer, not below the rank of a Deputy Superintendent
of Police, or any other officer of the Central Government or a State
Government authorised by the Central Government in this behalf may enter any
public place and search and arrest without warrant any person found therein
who is reasonably suspected of having committed or of committing or of being
about to commit any offence under this Act. Explanation.-For the purposes of
this sub-section, the expression "public place" includes any public
conveyance, any hotel, any shop or any other place intended for use by, or
accessible to the public.
(2) Where any person is arrested under sub-section (1) by an officer other
than a police officer, such officer shall, without unnecessary delay, take or
send the person arrested before a magistrate having jurisdiction in the case
or before the officer-in-charge of a police station.
(3) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), shall,
subject to the provisions of this section, apply, so far as may be, in
relation to any entry, search or arrest, made under this section.
81. Act to have overriding effect.-The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.
97 [81A. Application of the Act to electronic cheque and truncated cheque.-
(1) The provisions of this Act, for the time being in force, shall apply to,
or in relation to, electronic cheques and the truncated cheques subject to
such modifications and amendments as may be necessary for carrying out the
purposes of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881), by the Central
Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, by notification in
the Official Gazette.
(2) Every notification made by the Central Government under sub-section (1)
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the notification or both Houses agree that the notification should not be
made, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that notification. Explanation.-For the
purposes of this Act, the expressions "electronic cheque" and "truncated
cheque" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in section 6 of the
Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881).]
82. Controller, Deputy Controller and Assistant Controllers to be public servants.-The Presiding Officer and other officers and employees of a Cyber Appellate Tribunal, the Controller, the Deputy Controller and the Assistant Controllers shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
83. Power to give directions.-The Central Government may give directions to any State Government as to the carrying into execution in the State of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, regulation or order made thereunder.
84. Protection of action taken in good faith.-No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government, the State Government, the Controller or any person acting on behalf of him, the Presiding Officer, adjudicating officers and the staff of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule, regulation or order made thereunder.
85. Offences by companies.-
(1) Where a person committing a contravention of any of the provisions of this
Act or of any rule, direction or order made thereunder is a company, every
person who, at the time the contravention was committed, was in charge of, and
was responsible to, the company for the conduct of business of the company as
well as the company, shall be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to
punishment if he proves that the contravention took place without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent such
contravention.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where a
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, direction
or order made thereunder has been committed by a company and it is proved that
the contravention has taken place with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.-For the
purposes of this section,-
(i) "company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and
(ii) "director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
86. Removal of difficulties.-
(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to
it to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty: Provided that no
order shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of two
years from the commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament.
87 Power of Central Government to make rules. -
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and in
the Electronic Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-
98 [(a) the conditions for considering reliability of electronic signature or
electronic authentication technique under sub-section (2) of section 3A;]
98 [(aa) the procedure for ascertaining electronic signature or authentication
under sub-section (3) of section 3A;]
98 [(ab) the manner in which any information or matter may be authenticated by
means of electronic signature under section 5;]
(b) the electronic form in which filing, issue, grant or payment shall be
effected under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(c) the manner and format in which electronic records shall be filed, or
issued and the method of payment under sub-section (2) of section 6;
99 [(ca) the manner in which the authorised service provider may collect,
retain and appropriate service charges under sub-section (2) of section 6A;]
(d) the matters relating to the type of 100 [electronic signature], manner and
format in which it may be affixed under section 10;
101 [(e) the manner of storing and affixing electronic signature creation data
under section 15;]
101 [(ea) the security procedures and practices under section 16;]
(f) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service of
Controller, Deputy Controllers 102 [, Assistant Controllers, other officers
and employees] under section 17; 103 [***]
(h) the requirements which an applicant must fulfil under sub-section (2) of
section 21;
(i) the period of validity of licence granted under clause (a) of sub- section
(3) of section 21;
(j) the form in which an application for licence may be made under sub-section
(1) of section 22;
(k) the amount of fees payable under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section
22;
(l) such other documents which shall accompany an application for licence
under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 22;
(m) the form and the fee for renewal of a licence and the fee payable thereof
under section 23;
104 [(ma) the form of application and fee for issue of Electronic Signature
Certificate under section 35;]
(n) the form in which application for issue of a 105 [Electronic Signature]
Certificate may be made under sub-section (1) of section 35;
(o) the fee to be paid to the Certifying Authority for issue of a 105
[Electronic Signature] Certificate under sub-section (2) of section 35;
[(oa) the duties of subscribers under section 40A;]
[ 106(ob) the reasonable security practices and procedures and sensitive
personal data or information under section 43A;]
(p) the manner in which the adjudicating officer shall hold inquiry under sub-
section (1) of section 46;
(q) the qualification and experience which the adjudicating officer shall
possess under sub-section (3) of section 46;
(r) the salary, allowances and the other terms and conditions of service of
the 107 [Chairperson and Members] under section 52;
(s) the procedure for investigation of misbehaviour or incapacity of the 108
[Chairperson and Members] under sub-section (3) of section 54;
(t) the salary and allowances and other conditions of service of other
officers and employees under sub-section (3) of section 56;
(u) the form in which appeal may be filed and the fee thereof under sub-
section (3) of section 57;
(v) any other power of a civil court required to be prescribed under clause
(g) of sub-section (2) of section 58; and
109 [(w) the powers and functions of the Chairperson of the Cyber Appellate
Tribunal under section 52A;]
109 [(x) the information, duration, manner and form of such information to be
retained and preserved under section 67C;]
109 [(y) the procedures and safeguards and interception, monitoring, or
decryption under sub-section (2) of section 69;]
109 [(z) the procedure and safeguards for blocking for access by the public
under sub-section (2) of section 69A;]
109 [(za) the procedure and safeguards for monitoring and collecting traffic
data or information under sub-section (3) of section 69B;]
109 [(zb) the information security practices and procedures for protected
system under section 70;]
109 [(zc) manner of performing functions and duties of the agency under sub-
section (3) of section 70A;]
109 [(zd) the officers and employees under sub-section (2) of section 70B;]
109 [(ze) salaries and allowances and terms and conditions of service of the
Director-General and other officers and employees under sub-section (3) of
section 70B;]
110 [(zf) the manner in which the functions and duties of agency shall be
performed under sub-section (5) of section 70B;]
110 [(zg) the guidelines to be observed by the intermediaries under sub-
section (2) of section 79;]
110 [(zh) the modes or methods for encryption under section 84A.]
(3) 111 [Every notification made by the Central Government under sub-section
(1) of section 70A and every rule made by] shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in 112 [***] the rule or both Houses
agree that 112 [***] the rule should not be made, 112 [***] the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification or rule.
88. Constitution of Advisory Committee.-
(1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be after the commencement of
this Act, constitute a Committee called the Cyber Regulations Advisory
Committee.
(2) The Cyber Regulations Advisory Committee shall consist of a Chairperson
and such number of other official and non-official members representing the
interests principally affected or having special knowledge of the subject-
matter as the Central Government may deem fit.
(3) The Cyber Regulations Advisory Committee shall advise-
(a) the Central Government either generally as regards any rules or for any
other purpose connected with this Act;
(b) the Controller in framing the regulations under this Act.
(4) There shall be paid to the non-official members of such Committee such
travelling and other allowances as the Central Government may fix.
89. Power of Controller to make regulations.-
(1) The Controller may, after consultation with the Cyber Regulations Advisory
Committee and with the previous approval of the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-
(a) the particulars relating to maintenance of data-base containing the
disclosure record of every Certifying Authority under clause 113 [(n)]
ofsection 18;
(b) the conditions and restrictions subject to which the Controller may
recognise any foreign Certifying Authority under sub-section (1) ofsection 19;
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which a licence may be granted under
clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 21;
(d) other standards to be observed by a Certifying Authority under clause (d)
of section 30;
(e) the manner in which the Certifying Authority shall disclose the matters
specified in sub-section (1) of section 34;
(f) the particulars of statement which shall accompany an application under
sub-section (3) of section 35.
(g) the manner by which the subscriber shall communicate the compromise of
private key to the Certifying Authority under sub-section (2) of section 42.
(3) Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree
that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to
the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.
90. Power of State Government to make rules.-
(1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-
(a) the electronic form in which filing, issue, grant, receipt or payment
shall be effected under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(b) for matters specified in sub-section (2) of section 6;
(c) any other matter which is required to be provided by rules by the State
Government.
(3) Every rule made by the State Government under this section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature
where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature consists of one
House, before that House.
91. Amendment of Act 45 of 1860.-The Indian Penal Code shall be amended in the manner specified in the First Schedule to this Act.
92. Amendment of Act 1 of 1872.-The Indian Evidence Act, 1872 shall be amended in the manner specified in the Second Schedule to this Act.
93. Amendment of Act 18 of 1891.-The Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 shall be amended in the manner specified in the Third Schedule to this Act.
94. Amendment of Act 2 of 1934.-The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 shall be amended in the manner specified in the Fourth Schedule to this Act.
The Information Technology Act, 2000 The third schedule (See section 93)
AMENDMENTs TO THE BANKERS' BOOKs EVIDENCE ACT, 1891 (18 of 1891) 1. In section
2,- tc "1. In section 2,-" (a) for clause (3), the following clause shall be
substituted, namely:- '(3) "bankers' books" include ledgers, day-books, cash-
books, account-books and all other books used in the ordinary business of a
bank whether kept in the written form or as printouts of data stored in a
floppy, disc, tape or any other form of electro-magnetic data storage device;'
(b) for clause (8), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- '(8)
"certified copy" means when the books of a bank,- (a) are maintained in
written form, a copy of any entry in such books together with a certificate
written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such entry, that
such entry is contained in one of the ordinary books of the bank and was made
in the usual and ordinary course of business and that such book is still in
the custody of the bank, and where the copy was obtained by a mechanical or
other process which in itself ensured the accuracy of the copy, a further
certificate to that effect, but where the book from which such copy was
prepared has been destroyed in the usual course of the bank's business after
the date on which the copy had been so prepared, a further certificate to that
effect, each such certificate being dated and subscribed by the principal
accountant or manager of the bank with his name and official title; and (b)
consist of printouts of data stored in a floppy, disc, tape or any other
electro-magnetic data storage device, a printout of such entry or a copy of
such printout together with such statements certified in accordance with the
provisions of section 2A.'. 2. After section 2, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:- "2A. Conditions in the printout.-A printout of entry or a
copy of printout referred to in sub-section (8) of section 2 shall be
accompanied by the following, namely:- (a) a certificate to the effect that it
is a printout of such entry or a copy of such printout by the principal
accountant or branch manager; and (b) a certificate by a person in-charge of
computer system containing a brief description of the computer system and the
particulars of- (A) the safeguards adopted by the system to ensure that data
is entered or any other operation performed only by authorised persons; (B)
the safeguards adopted to prevent and detect unauthorised change of data; (C)
the safeguards available to retrieve data that is lost due to systemic failure
or any other reasons; (D) the manner in which data is transferred from the
system to removable media like floppies, discs, tapes or other electro-
magnetic data storage devices; (E) the mode of verification in order to ensure
that data has been accurately transferred to such removable media; (F) the
mode of identification of such data storage devices; (G) the arrangements for
the storage and custody of such storage devices; (H) the safeguards to prevent
and detect any tampering with the system; and (I) any other factor which will
vouch for the integrity and accuracy of the system. (c) a further certificate
from the person in-charge of the computer system to the effect that to the
best of his knowledge and belief, such computer system operated properly at
the material time, he was provided with all the relevant data and the printout
in question represents correctly, or is appropriately derived from, the
relevant data.". The Information Technology Act, 2000 The Fourth schedule (See
section 94) AMENDMENT TO THE RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ACT, 1934 ( 2 of 1934 ) In
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, in section 58, in sub-section (2), after
clause (p), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(pp) the
regulation of fund transfer through electronic means between the banks or
between the banks and other financial institutions referred to in clause (c)
of section 45-I, including the laying down of the conditions subject to which
banks and other financial institutions shall participate in such fund
transfers, the manner of such fund transfers and the rights and obligations of
the participants in such fund transfers;".
1\. Came into force on 17-10-2000 vide G.S.R. 788(E), dated 17th October,
2000.
2\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 3, for sub-section (4). Sub-section (4),
before substitution, stood as under:
3\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signature".
4\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
5\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(A).
6\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(B), for clause (j). Clause (j), before
substitution, stood as under:
7\. The word "Regulations" omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(C).
8\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(D).
9\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(E).
10\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(F).
11\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(G), for "data, text".
12\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 4(H), for clause (w). Clause (w), before
substitution, stood as under:
13\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
14\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 6.
15\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signatures".
16\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signature".
17\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “digital signatures”.
18\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 7.
19\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 8.
20\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signature".
21\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signatures".
22\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 10, for “agreed with the addressee”.
23\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 11, for section 15. Section 15, before
substitution, stood as under:
24\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 11, for section 16. Section 16, before
substitution, stood as under:
25\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 12(a), for "and Assistant Controllers".
26\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 12(b), for "and Assistant Controllers".
27\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
28\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
29\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
30\. Subs. by S.O. 1015(E), dated 19th September, 2002, for clause "(c) failed
to maintain the standards specified under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
section 20;" (w.e.f. 19-9-2002).
31\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 14, for “any contravention of the
provisions of this Act, rules or regulations made thereunder”.
32\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signatures".
33\. The word "and" omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 15(i).
34\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 15(ii).
35\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
36\. The words "which contains the public key corresponding to the private key
used by that Certifying Authority to digitally sign another Digital Signature
Certificate;" omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 16.
37\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
38\. First Proviso omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 17(a). First Proviso,
before omission, stood as under:
39\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 17(b), for "Provided further".
40\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 18.
41\. The word "then" omitted by S.O. 1015 (E), dated 19th September, 2002
(w.e.f. 19-9-2002).
42\. Subs. by S.O. 1015 (E), dated 19th September, 2002, for "the key" (w.e.f.
19-9-2002).
43\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 19.
44\. The words "to a person not authorised to affix the digital signature of
the subscriber" omitted by S.O. 1015 (E), dated 19th September, 2002 (w.e.f.
19-9-2002).
45\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 21(a), for" Penalty ".
46\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 21(b).
47\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 21(c).
48\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 21(d), for "he shall be liable to pay
damages by way of compensation not exceeding one crore rupees to the person so
affected."
49\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 21(e).
50\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 22.
51\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 23(a), for "direction or order made
thereunder".
52\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 23(b).
53\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 23(c).
54\. The word “Regulations” omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 25.
55\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26, for sections 49. Sections 49, before
substitution, stood as under:
56\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26, for sections 50. Sections 50, before
substitution, stood as under:
57\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26, for sections 51. Sections 51, before
substitution, stood as under:
58\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26, for sections 52. Sections 52, before
substitution, stood as under:
59\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26.
60\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26.
61\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26.
62\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 26.
63\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 27, for “Presiding Officer”.
64\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 28, for “Presiding Officer”.
65\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 29, for “Presiding Officer”.
66\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 30, for “Presiding Officer”.
67\. Subs. by S.O. 1015 (E), dated 19th September, 2002, for "Chapter" (w.e.f.
19-9-2002).
68\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 31(ii), for" penalty ".
69\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 31(i), for "penalty imposed".
70\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital Signature".
71\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32, for sections 66 and 67. Sections 66 and
67, before substitution, stood as under:
72\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
73\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
74\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
75\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
76\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
77\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32, for sections 67. Sections 67, before
substitution, stood as under:
78\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
79\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
80\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 32.
81\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 33, for sub-section (2). Sub-section (2),
before substitution, stood as under:
82\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 34, for section 69. Section 69, before
substitution, stood as under:
83\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 34.
84\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 34.
85\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 35(a), for sub-section (1). Sub-section
(1), before substitution, stood as under:
86\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 35(b).
87\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 36.
88\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 36.
89\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
90\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 37.
91\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for" Digital Signature ".
92\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
93\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for “Digital Signature”.
94\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 39, for “Deputy Superintendent of Police”.
95\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 40, for Chapter XII. Chapter XII, before
substitution stood, as under:
96\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 40.
97\. Ins. by Act 55 of 2002, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 6-2-2003). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 55
of 2002, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 6-2-2003)."
98\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(i), for clause (a). Clause (a),
before substitution, stood as under:
99\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ii).
100\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "digital signature".
101\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iii), for clause (e). Clause (e),
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
112\. The words "the notification or" omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec.
46(B)(ii).
113\. Subs. by S.O. 1015 (E), dated 19th September, 2002, for "(m)" (w.e.f.
19-9-2002).
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881);
(b) a power-of-attorney as defined in section 1A of the Powers-of-Attorney
Act, 1882 (7 of 1882);
(c) a trust as defined in section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882);
(d) a Will as defined in clause (h) of section (2) of the Indian Succession
Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), including any other testamentary disposition by
whatever name called;
(e) any contract for the sale or conveyance of immovable property or any
interest in such property;
(f) any such class of documents or transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette."
2 Definitions. -
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) "access", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical,
arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer, computer system or
computer network;
(b) "addressee" means a person who is intended by the originator to receive
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881);
(b) a power-of-attorney as defined in section 1A of the Powers-of-Attorney
Act, 1882 (7 of 1882);
(c) a trust as defined in section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882);
(d) a Will as defined in clause (h) of section (2) of the Indian Succession
Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), including any other testamentary disposition by
whatever name called;
(e) any contract for the sale or conveyance of immovable property or any
interest in such property;
(f) any such class of documents or transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette."
2 Definitions. -
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) "access", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical,
arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer, computer system or
computer network;
(b) "addressee" means a person who is intended by the originator to receive
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881);
(b) a power-of-attorney as defined in section 1A of the Powers-of-Attorney
Act, 1882 (7 of 1882);
(c) a trust as defined in section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882);
(d) a Will as defined in clause (h) of section (2) of the Indian Succession
Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), including any other testamentary disposition by
whatever name called;
(e) any contract for the sale or conveyance of immovable property or any
interest in such property;
(f) any such class of documents or transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette."
2 Definitions. -
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) "access", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical,
arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer, computer system or
computer network;
(b) "addressee" means a person who is intended by the originator to receive
the electronic record but does not include any intermediary;
(c) "adjudicating officer" means an adjudicating officer appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 46;
(d) "affixing 3 [electronic signature]", with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions means adoption of any methodology or procedure by a person
for the purpose of authenticating an electronic record by means of 3
[electronic signature];
(e) "appropriate Government" means as respects any matter,-
(i) enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;
(ii) relating to any State law enacted under List III of the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution, the State Government and in any other case, the Central
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
(a) a negotiable instrument (other than a cheque) as defined in section 13 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881);
(b) a power-of-attorney as defined in section 1A of the Powers-of-Attorney
Act, 1882 (7 of 1882);
(c) a trust as defined in section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of
1882);
(d) a Will as defined in clause (h) of section (2) of the Indian Succession
Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), including any other testamentary disposition by
whatever name called;
(e) any contract for the sale or conveyance of immovable property or any
interest in such property;
(f) any such class of documents or transactions as may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette."
2 Definitions. -
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) "access", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the logical,
arithmetical or memory function resources of a computer, computer system or
computer network;
(b) "addressee" means a person who is intended by the originator to receive
the electronic record but does not include any intermediary;
(c) "adjudicating officer" means an adjudicating officer appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 46;
(d) "affixing 3 [electronic signature]", with its grammatical variations and
cognate expressions means adoption of any methodology or procedure by a person
for the purpose of authenticating an electronic record by means of 3
[electronic signature];
(e) "appropriate Government" means as respects any matter,-
(i) enumerated in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution;
(ii) relating to any State law enacted under List III of the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution, the State Government and in any other case, the Central
before substitution, stood as under:
102\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(iv), for "and Assistant Controller".
103\. Clause (g) omitted by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(v). Clause (g), before
omission, stood as under:
104\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vi).
105\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 2, for "Digital Signature".
106\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(vii).
107\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(viii), for "Presiding Officer".
109\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
110\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(A)(ix), for clause (w). Clause (w),
before substitution, stood as under:
111\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 46(B)(i), for "Every notification made by
the Central Government under clause (f) of sub-section (4) of section 1 and
every rule made by it".
