Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Qualcomm Incorported , ... vs Assessee
            IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                DELHI BENCHES: "E" NEW DELHI
      BEFORE SHRI J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
              AND SHRI CM GARG, JUDICIAL MEMBER
           ITA Nos: 3696-3697-3698-3699 and 3700/Del/2009
                     A.Ys. : - 2000-2001 to 2004-05
    M/s Qualcomm Incorporated           vs.           ADIT, Circle 2(1)
                                 th
    C/o S.R.Batliboi & Co. 401, 4 floor,              International Taxation
    Ashoka Bhopal Chambers                            Drum shaped bldg,
    S.P road,                                          Room No.414
    Secunderabad                                      New Delhi
      (Appellant)                                     (Respondent)
              Appellant by : Shri S.E.Dastur, Sr.Counsel with
    S/Shri Nishant Thakkar, , Shri.Rajan Vora , Shri.Jayesh Sanghvi, Shri
       Naveen Agarwal, Ms.Divya Santhanam &Shri. Manoneet Dalal
          Respondent by : Shri G.C. Srivastava, Spl.Counsel with
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
                                   ORDER
PER J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER All these five appeals are filed by
M/s.Qualcomm Incorporated and are directed against a common order passed by
the CIT(A)-XXIX, New Delhi dt. 26-06-2009 for the A.Y. 2000-2001 to A.Y.
2004-2005. All these appeals arise from the assessments framed by the
Assessing Officer ('AO') under section 143(3) read with section 147 of the
Income tax Act 1961('the Act'). Since the issues in all these appeals have
arisen from common facts and circumstances, the appeals were heard together
and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of
convenience.
2
2\. The Appellant has raised various common grounds. The grounds of appeals
are many and pertain to different limbs and contentions in support of Five
main issues that require our adjudication. These issues that arise in the
present appeals are summarized as under:
> a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the ld. CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated
> under S. 148/ 147 of the Act;
> b) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in exercising jurisdiction under section 251 of the Act to enhance
> the income of the Appellant in respect of royalty income earned by the
> Appellant from the OEMs on network equipment; and
> c) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs') of CDMA
> mobile handsets and network equipment, who are located outside India, under
> S. 9(1)(vi) (c) of the Income Tax Act;
> d) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs) of mobile
> handsets and network equipment, who are located outside India, under Article
> 12(7)(b) of the India -USA tax treaty ('DTAA');
> e) Whether on facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was justified
> in confirming the levy of interest under section 234A & B  3 of the Act.
> We will address the above issues in seriatim.
3\. We extract the following additional detailed grounds raised by the
Appellant as we feel the same is necessary for the sake of completeness.
"That the CIT (A) was factually wrong in holding that,
a) The Indian Carriers constitute a source of income for the OEMs in India;
b) The source of revenue derived by the Appellant is from utilization
/exploitation of the patents by users in India, completely disregarding the
fact that licensing transaction between the Appellant and the OEMs is
completely independent of the supply transaction between the OEMs and the
Indian telecom operators;
c) the real intent of licensing the patented technology to the OEMs is to make
available the products to Indian Carriers for commercially exploiting the CDMA
technology in India;
d) the OEMs customize the products for use in India based on the specific
orders placed by the Indian Carriers on the OEMs to manufacture products that
are compatible to the CDMA network in India, and the products manufactured by
the OEMs for sale to Indian Carriers cannot be sold / used in any other
geography outside India;
e) the Appellant provides technology to Indian Carriers and has licensed
rights to the patented technology to the Indian Carriers through independent
agreements entered into with the Indian Carriers; completely disregarding the
fact that the Technical  4 Services Agreements ('TSAs') entered into between
the Appellant and the Indian Carriers are entirely independent of the patent
license agreements between OEMs and the Appellant;
f) the Indian Carriers have made payments to the Appellant for the use or the
right to use the patented technology;
g) the payment made by the Indian Carriers for the CDMA network infrastructure
equipment includes payment for the right to use technology;
h) the deployment of CDMA network and use of handsets by the Indian Carriers
in India gives the Indian Carriers a license to receive the services from the
Appellant;
i) the Appellant has licensed software to the OEMs for manufacture of
handsets;
j) the OEMs acquire a license in the software from the Appellant that enable
the base station to communicate with the handsets;
k) the Appellant may have received royalty from Indian Carriers or from others
providing the infrastructure and embedded technology to Indian Carriers;
l) the Appellant receives royalty with respect to the CDMA network being
installed in India;
m) the right to use the patented technology is given in India.
4\. The brief facts of the case as brought by the AO in his assessment order
for the A.Y.2000-2001 dt. 31-12-2007 and the CIT (A) in his order dt.
29.06.2007 is extracted below:-
"Qualcomm Incorporated ('Qualcomm' or 'the Appellant') is a publicly  5 traded
company on the NASDAQ under the symbol: QCOM . Qualcomm was incorporated under
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware in the United states of
America on August 15, 1991. Qualcomm engages in the design, development,
manufacture, marketing and licensing of digital wireless telecommunication
products and services based on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
technology. Worldwide, Qualcomm's extensive portfolio has more than 6200 US
patents and patent applications for CDMA and other technologies.
The four principal business units of Qualcomm are as follows:-
i. Qualcomm CDMA Technologies ('QCT')- QCT develops and supplies CDMA based
integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data
communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products.
ii. Qualcomm Technologies Licensing ('QTL') - QTL grants licenses to
manufacture of wireless products for the right to use portions of Qualcomm's
intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights
essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless
products.
iii. Qualcomm Wireless & Internet ('QWI') - QWI is comprised of:
* Qualcomm Internet Services ('QIS') - QIS provides technology to support and accelerate the convergence of the wireless data market including BREW, QChat and QPoint Products and services; 
* Qualcomm Government Technologies ('QGOV') - QGOV provides development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States government agencies involving wireless communications technologies; and * Qualcomm Wireless Business Solutions ('QWBS') - QWBS provides  6 satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging, position reporting and wireless application services to transportation companies, private fleets, construction equipment fleets and other enterprise companies. 
iv. Qualcomm Strategies Initiatives ('QST') - QST manages the company's
strategic investment activities, and make strategic investments to promote the
worldwide adoptions of CDMA based products and services.
The following entities are relevant to Qualcomm's investment in India:
a. Qualcomm India Private Ltd. ('QIPL');
b. Qualcomm Bangalore Design Centre Private Limited ('QBDC') and c. Spike
Technologies Private Limited ('Spike').
QIPL is an ultimate subsidiary of Qualcomm and was incorporated in India on
March 08, 1996. QBDC and Spike were acquired in the FY 2004-05. QBDC and Spike
have been merged with QIPL effective from April 1, 2005. QIPL is a part of the
QCT operating segment of Qualcomm.
The main business of QIPL is to provide R&D services to Qualcomm Global
Trading Inc. ('QGT') its indirect parent.
The Appellant has developed key patents to Code Division Multiple Access
(CDMA), a method for transmitting simultaneous signals over a shared spectrum,
most commonly applied to digital wireless technology. The Appellant has also
granted a nonexclusive and nontransferable worldwide license of its patents
developed on CDMA technology (the Patented Technology') to unrelated wireless
Original Equipment Manufacturers ('the OEMs') to make (and have made), import,
use and sell CDMA handsets and wireless equipment (the 'Products') in
consideration for a royalty.
7
The Appellant's business model in relation to grant of license of its patents
is as under:-
> a) The Appellant licenses its Patents to OEMs who are situated outside India
> are not residents of India;
> b) The OEMs use the patents to manufacture the Products outside of India;
> c) The OEMs sold the Products to wireless carriers worldwide;
> d) Royalty is payable by the OEMs to the Appellant for use of patented
> technology in the manufacture of products and is determined with reference
> to the net selling price of the product sold to unrelated wireless carriers
> worldwide. The OEMs typically pay a lump sum royalty on one or more
> installments and ongoing royalties based on their sale of products
> e) The OEMs sold products manufactured using the patented technology, among
> other purchasers, to Tata Teleservices and Reliance Communications, both of
> whom are wireless carriers located in India (collectively, referred to as
> the 'Indian Carriers').
> f) The products manufactured by the OEMs outside India were purchased by the
> Indian Carriers from the OEMs. The Indian Carriers, in turn, sold the
> products to end users in India. The products are used by customers of the
> Indian Carriers in India."
5\. The CIT (A) in his order observed as under.
"The appellant has further provided a diagrammatic depiction of the
transaction between the appellant and the OEMs situated outside India. The
perusal of the diagram submitted by the appellant, however, does not indicate
complete picture. The diagram is only in respect of licenses  8 of patented
CDMA technology to handset manufacturer outside India. Second part of the
diagram shows sale of equipment (handsets) manufactured to Indian carriers.
What has not been indicated is that the appellant also provides CDMA
technology of Indian carriers viz., Tata Tele Services (Tata Mobile) and
Reliance Infocom (Reliance Mobile) who are able to utilize the handsets by the
consumers through their mobile net work for communication which again uses
CDMA technology. Therefore, the licensing by the appellant has two arms, - )i)
licensing to the OEMs for the handsets, and(ii) licensing of the CDMA
technology to net work manufacturers who supply these net works equipment to
the Indian carriers where the patented technology is used in India. The net
work is installed by the manufacturer either directly or through some other
agency but invariably carries the CDMA compatible software for which license
is granted by the appellant. For this licensing of software as well as
patented technology, royalty would be receivable by the appellant from either
the net work instrument supplier or any other agency who had authorized the
use of this CDMA patented technology and software in India".
6\. Further, the AO in his order recorded that, the assesses had income from
two important streams i.e., (a) from Qualcomm CDMA Technologies ('QCT') which
develops and supplies CDMA based integrated circuits and Systems software for
wireless voice and data communication, multi-media functions and global
positioning system(GPS), products and (b) Qualcomm technology licensing
('QTL') which grants licenses to manufacturer of wireless products for the
right to use portions of Qualcomm's intellectual property portfolios which
include certain patent rights essential to/ or useful in the manufacture and
sale of certain wireless products.
7\. On facts the Appellant submitted to the revenue authorities that,  9
a) Qualcomm did not license CDMA technology to any network equipment
manufactures in India during the subject assessment years.
b) Qualcomm does not have any role in determining the cost of handsets
purchased by Reliance, etc from third parties (ie OEMs).
c) royalty is payable by the OEM`s for the use of patents for manufacturing
CDMA handsets/ equipments and the royalties is quantified and becomes payable
on sale. It was clarified that royalty does not accrue on sale of handsets but
only on manufacture of handsets/ equipments.
d) It was contended that the patented technology as licensed to the OEM`s is
for "use in manufacturing" CDMA standard network equipment and CDMA standard
handsets and the OEM`s pay the royalty upon the sale of the licensed product,
which is not limited to sale in India. No OEM is limited in India and none of
them are located in India.
e) The royalty received by Qualcomm for the OEM`s is independent of whether
the network equipment/handsets are sold into India or not.
f) Qualcomm is not involved in the sale of handsets between the OEM`s and the
carriers operating in India (i.e., Reliance/Tata).
8\. The Appellant did not furnish copies of the licensing agreements between
the Appellant and the OEM`s before the AO, on the ground that the agreement
with the OEM`s are not restricted to India.
9\. The AO reopened the assessment for all the above AYs based on reasons
recorded by him, which would be dealt by us later in this  10 order. The AO
came to conclusion that the royalty paid by the OEMs to Qualcomm for licensing
of patents to manufacture CDMA handsets is taxable in India u/s 9(1)(vi) ( c )
of the Act and under Article 12(7)(b) of the DTAA.
The AO did not agree with the submissions of the Appellant for the following
reasons:-
Under the Income Tax Act 1961, "Under the provisions of S.9(1)(vi)(c ) of the
Income Tax Act, income by way of Royalty payable by a person who is a Non-
Resident will be taxable in India if, where the royalty is payable in respect
of any right, property or information used or services utilized for the
purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person in India or for
the purposes of making or earning any income from any source in India.
In this case, we are concerned only with the royalty payable by the OEMs to
Qualcomm based on the net work equipment/hand sets sold by them to parties in
India. It is not our case to tax the royalty arising out of the global
contract between OEMs and Qualcomm but only so much of the royalty which
pertains to sales made in India. The source of income of the OEMs is sales
made to parties in India based on which royalties are paid to Qualcomm. Thus
in terms of S.9(1)(vi)(c ) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 royalties payable to
Qualcomm are deemed to accrue and arise in India.
Under the Indo-U S A DTAA, "In terms of Article 12(7)(b) of the DTAA between
India and USA, the royalty arising to Qualcomm is clearly taxable in India.
The relevant article is reproduced as under:-
"(b) Where under sub-paragraph (a) royalties or fees for included services  11
do not arise in one of the Contracting States, and the royalties relate to the
use of, or the right to use, the right or property, or the fees for included
services relate to services performed, in one of the Contracting States, the
royalties or fees for included services shall be deemed to arise in that
Contracting State."
With reference to the above article the assessee has submitted that "the
technology is used for manufacturing the net work equipment/hand sets (i.e.
products) before they are shift to India or elsewhere. Under the license
agreement entered into with OEMs the obligation to pay royalties to Qualcomm
arises before the products reach Indian carriers. The license agreement
between Qualcomm and OEMs does not require the OEMs to enter into a licensing
agreement between the OEMs and carriers for selling the products manufactured
by the OEMs. Further more, since the royalty is paid by OEMs for manufacturing
the equipment/hand sets which is done outside India the 'use' is outside
India."
The assessee's submission regarding the point at which royalty becomes payable
based on the contract between the OEMs and Qualcomm cannot be relied upon
since the assessee has failed to submit copy of the contracts between the OEMs
and Qualcomm. Despite repeated opportunities the assessee has only stated that
no contracts have been entered into with Indian OEMs and has not given a copy
of any of the global contracts entered into with Indian OEMs and has not given
a copy of any of the global contracts entered into by it. Therefore, no
reliance can be placed on the assessee's submission that the OEMs have a
contractual obligation to pay the royalty to Qualcomm even if the OEMs does
not get paid by the carrier.
In fact as per the assessee's submissions it is apparent that the payment of
royalty is based upon the sale of the licensed products and not merely on its
manufacturing. It is not a case, where the royalty has  12 been paid lump sum
for the use of CDMA technology but is an ongoing payment dependent on the
volume of sales. It has been stated that the definition of sale could mean
invoiced, shipped etc. and sale would occur upon the first such occurrence.
The fact that sale means invoiced shipped etc. by itself implies that a party
has been recognized to which the goods are invoiced or shipped. In this case,
unless the OEM has raised a bill/ shipped the goods to a party in India i.e.
Reliance or Tata no royalty would be payable to Qualcomm. The assessee's
submission that the royalty received by Qualcomm is independent of whether the
network equipment/ handsets are sold into India is therefore, incorrect and
royalty clearly arises at the time of goods are sold to a particular customer,
in this case customers in India".
Thus he concluded that royalties arising to Qualcomm on the sale of handsets
to customers in India is taxable as per S.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act and in terms
of Article 12(7)(b)of the DTAA. Thereafter he quantified the total income.
10\. The Appellant aggrieved by the order of the AO carried the matter in
appeal before the First Appellate Authority. Before the CIT(A), it challenged
the reopening of the assessment u/s 147 of the Act. On merits it disputed the
assessment order on the ground that royalty in question cannot be taxed in
India u/s.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act and under Article.12(7)(b) of the DTAA . The
quantification was also disputed. The first appellate authority not only
rejected the contentions of the assessee but also enhanced the assessment.
11\. The Appellant had filed additional evidence before the CIT(A) u/s 250 of
the Act read with Rule 46A of the Income Tax rules 1962. The additional
evidence consisted of redacted copies of 16 global licensing agreements
between the Appellant and OEM`s situated outside India.
13
At para 7.1 pg.16 of the CIT(A)`s order it is stated as follows:-
"7.1. It was submitted by the appellant that the licensing agreements
contained certain commercially sensitive information and the same was redacted
from the agreements to protect the competitiveness of the appellant/OEM
business. The redactions were duly supported by the key to redactions and were
notarized by a Notary Public - California, San Diego County and also by an
affidavit by the Vice President of Tax and Trade of the Appellant that was
enclosed with each of the 16 agreements submitted by the appellant. The
affidavit reiterates the appellant's position on the redactions that it was
essential to protect the commercially sensitive information which could
inhibit the appellant's or the OEMs ability to compete effectively. The
appellant has also affirmed that no information having an effect on the
principle of taxability of the appellant in India has been redacted."
The CIT(A) admitted the additional evidences for the reasons given at para
7.4.1 of his order, after obtaining a remand report from the AO and also
considering the cross objections filed by the Appellant .
Further, to corroborate its position that nothing impinging upon the
taxability in India has been redacted from the agreements, the Appellant
before this tribunal, produced the original (unredacted) 16 license agreement
entered by the Appellant with the OEMs for verification of the revenue
authorities and the special counsel and return. We had directed the Appellant
to produce the same before the Revenue for verification.
12\. Regarding enhancement, the First Appellate Authority came to a conclusion
that the AO failed to bring to tax royalty income earned by the Appellant on
CDMA network equipments, in addition to handsets. The observations of the CIT
(A) at para 7.4.3 of the order is as follows:-
14
\-
"The Assessing Officer has brought to tax the royalty received by the
appellant on sale of handsets to Indian Carriers on the ground that the
royalty arises in India in view of the fact that the hand sets are sold to
Indian Carriers and royalty accrues to the appellant on sale of the handset.
However, it is to be appreciated that the handsets would not be of any use in
the absence of CDMA net work infrastructure which is built using the CDMA net
work equipments and made compatible with the software provided on the handsets
being manufactured by the Korean Licensee. It is undisputed that the net work
equipments used by the Indian Carriers are also manufactured using the CDMA
technology owned by the "Appellant. It is likely that some third party might
have been licensed by the appellant to provide network and associated software
to Indian Mobile Operator who use CDMA technology like Tata Telecom or
Reliance Mobile in India. This network equipment is utilized by the CDMA
subscribers for communicating using the CDMA handsets. Therefore, what
requires evaluation first is whether the royalty received by the Appellant
from the licensing of patented technology for use in India in the mobile
network can be deemed to accrue or arise in India. The taxability of the CDMA
handsets would also depend upon whether the royalty on the CDMA network
equipment is taxable in India. The appellant has raised an objection that its
licensing in Korea has no nexus in India. When seen in the above backdrop it
shall be observed that the software license to the Korean entity is for
manufacture the handset which been made compatible with the software provided
to Indian Telecom operators for their network. If the handsets are not made
compatible with the Indian network, these shall not be usable in India. It can
also be seen that these handsets are sold by the Indian Telecom operator as
they have in built compatibility with their network."
15
He issued a show cause notice proposing enhancement of the assessment to bring
to tax the royalty income received by the Appellant from licensing of CDMA
patents to manufacture network equipment. For various reasons given in his
order, the First Appellate Authority concluded that the royalty in question
falls within the key provisions of S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act and is also
covered under Article 12 (7)(b) of the DTAA. Aggrieved by the order of the
First Appellate Authority, the Appellant is in appeal in before us.
13\. Shri Soli Dastur, Ld.Sr.Counsel along with Shri Nishant Thakkar appeared
for the Appellant. Shri G.C. Srivastava, Special Counsel along with Ms.Preethi
Bharadwaj appeared on behalf of the Revenue.
14\. Assesses submissions on reopening:
1\. Mr.Dastur opened his arguments by presenting the facts of the case as per
the Appellant. He drew the attention of the Bench to the additional grounds of
appeal filed by the Appellant for all these AYs which pertained to the issue
of reopening of the assessment under S.148 of the Act. We extract the
additional grounds below:
2\. Each of the grounds given below is independent and without prejudice to
the other grounds of appeal preferred by the appellant.
1\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld.CIT(A) XXIX,
Delhi erred in confirming the initiation of proceedings under Section 148 of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 on facts and in law and therefore the assessment made
thereon is bad in law and must be quashed.
2\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the reassessment
proceedings are barred by limitation in as much as the reasons for reopening
have been supplied to the appellant after the expiry of six years from the end
of the relevant Assessment Year which is beyond the  16 period prescribed
under Section 149(1)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
3\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the reassessment
proceedings are bad in law in as much as the sanction under Section 151 is
obtained from the ADIT(International Tax) Range 2, New Delhi and not from the
JCIT as prescribed under Section 151(2)of the Income Tax Act, 1961\.
4\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the formula prescribed
by the Ld.CIT(A) for arriving at the royalty income from infrastructure
equipment is based on surmise and conjectures as is evidenced from the results
reached by the Ld.AO by application thereof.
5\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld.CIT(A) being
aware of the actual information relating to purchases of CDMA infrastructure
equipment by the Indian Carriers ought to have directed the Ld.AO to compute
the royalty income of the appellant from infrastructure equipment on the same
basis as accepted both by the Ld.AO and the appellant for the Assessment Year
2006-07."
Of the above grounds, Ground No.2 is applicable only for AY 2000-01, Ground
No.3 is applicable only for AY 2000-01 and AY 2001-02.
3\. On the issue of reopening, the Ld.Sr.Counsel, at the outset, referred to
the reasons recorded by the AO for initiating the reassessment proceedings
under S.147 of the Act and submitted that the reasons are identical for AY
2000-2001 to 2004-05. He summarized the reasons recorded by the AO for AY
2004-05 (pages 1 to 6 of the Appellant's paper book) as under:-
"i. Press release dt. March 23, 1999 issued by appellant in the USA shows that
appellant has several patents registered in its favour. These patents are then
used to earn royalties worldwide including India.
17
ii. News paper article dt. June 28,2006 shows that appellant has research
centres located in India. These locations constitute business connection as
well as permanent establishment of appellant in India.
iii. News paper article dt. June 15, 2006 and July 29, 2006 shows that
appellant negotiates with the customers of CDMA technologies like Reliance and
TATA the price of royalties to be embedded in the cost of the cell phone. This
shows that the royalty payments are for handsets operational in India and the
royalty is only routed through the manufacturers.
iv. Appellant is earning fees from Included Services (FIS) from Reliance
Communications Infrastructure Ltd. (Reliance) and Tata Teleservices Ltd.
(Tata)."
4\. Based on the reasons recorded by the AO, Mr. Dastur put forth the
following arguments on the validity of reopening of the assessments:-
> a. The entire assessments are reopened based on the news paper reports.
> Newspaper articles can not constitute information/evidence as contemplated
> under the Act. News paper reports at the highest show the correspondent's
> presumption of the position. Therefore, he submitted that the jurisdiction
> under section 147 read with section 148 of the Act cannot be assumed on the
> basis of such articles. In this regard, he drew our attention to the
> decision of the Jurisdictional High Court in the case Namit Verma vs. UOI
> (247 ITR 049) and the decision of the Sikkim High Court in the case of
> Sikkim Subba Associates vs. UOI & Ors (276 ITR 456) wherein in the context
> of PIL and search operations u/s.132 of the Act it was held that Newspaper
> reports do not constitute evidence and they are at best second hand  18
> secondary evidence.
b. The reasons recorded for reopening are pretence. Merely because the
Appellant has patents registered in its name and earns royalty from licensing
of the patents, it cannot be regarded as royalty is earned from India as none
of the OEMs have manufacturing base in India. The inference sought to be drawn
by the AO from the press release dt. 23rd March, 1999 is without any basis.
c. It is factually incorrect to say that the Appellant has R&D centre in
India. QIPL an indirect subsidiary does the R&D activities in India for
Qualcomm Global Trading Inc, BVI. Besides, the first ever R&D center of QIPL
was set up in Hyderabad only on 19.04.2004 (relevant to AY 2005-06). In
support of its submission, the Appellant had furnished the audited financial
of QIPL for the financial year ended 31.03.2003 and 31.03.2004 and drew the
attention of this bench to Clause I under point 7 of the auditor's report
where it was reported that "no internal audit was carried out during the year,
as there were no operations".
d. The newspaper article dt. 28th June, 2006 merely records that the
Appellant's CEO expressed his inclination to promote CDMA technology in India
by setting up hand set manufacturing base in India and by increasing R&D
activities. A forward looking statement made in 2006 cannot form the basis for
the AO to have a reason to believe that income escaped assessment for all the
above AYs.
e. The newspaper article dt. 15th June, 2006 regarding a meeting between the
CEO of the Appellant and the Chairman of Reliance was nothing but a report of
a public relation exercise and cannot  19 be a basis for arriving at a
conclusion that royalty rates were directly negotiated by the Appellant with
the Indian telephone providers. The meeting took place in the year 2006 has no
relevance for earlier AYs.
f. The inference drawn by the AO viz., that the royalty rates are being
negotiated by the assessee with Telecom service providers is nothing but a
surmise. Mr. Dastur vehemently contended that the proceedings under section
147 of the Act cannot be based on conjectures. In this connection, he referred
to the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of German Remedies vs.
DCIT (285 ITR 26) and the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of
A.Raman & Co vs. ITO which was latter affirmed by the Apex Court in 67 ITR 11
where in the High Courts have held that reopening of the assessment based on
suspicion, presumption, conjectures and surmises is not permissible in law.
g. That the Appellant has not earned any fee from included services from any
persons in India during the AY 2000-01, 2001-02 and AY 2004-05. Thus, the
reason is factually incorrect. Further, in respect of AYs 2002-03 and AY
2003-04, it was submitted that there was no escapement of income as the
payment was subject to tax at source.
h. He submitted that the formation of belief is either factually incorrect or
is based on surmise and conjectures. Hence, the reason is nothing but pretence
and that, jurisdiction under section 147 read with section 148 of the Act
cannot be assumed on the basis of reasons which are pretence. In this
connection, he referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of ITO v. Lakhmani Mewal Das (103 ITR 437) where in the Hon'ble Supreme
Court held that reason must be held in good  20 faith and it cannot be merely
pretence. Reliance was also placed on the decision of the jurisdictional High
Court in the case of Sarthak Securities (P) Ltd vs. ITO (329 ITR 110)., i.
Proceedings u/s 147 cannot be based on conjectures and that reopening must be
based on some tangible material, something that can be regarded as having a
live link/close nexus with the circumstances relied upon for formation of
belief. The material relied by the AO viz newspaper articles are nothing but
conjectures and surmises and cannot be regarded as tangible material. Further,
the newspaper articles are published in 2006 and hence cannot be regarded as
live link/ close nexus with the year ended March 31, 2000 through March 31,
2004. He referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
CIT vs. Kelvinator of India Ltd. (320ITR 561) wherein it was held that there
should be a tangible material to come to the conclusion that there is
escapement of income from assessment and the reasons must have a live link
with the formation of the belief. Reliance was placed on the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of ITO vs. Lakhmani Mewal Das (Supra).
j. He contended that the reason to believe cannot be a reason to suspect or
even a bare subjective satisfaction or an opinion. For this preposition, he
relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ganga Saran
and Sons (P) Ltd vs. ITO (130 ITR 1). Reliance was also placed on Circular
No.549 dated October 31, 1989.
k. The reasons recorded must relate to the year for which notice was issued.
There is nothing in the reasons as recorded to show that any income was earned
by the Appellant during the financial year ended March 31, 2000 to March 31,
2004 had escaped  21 assessment. The reasons must relate to the year for which
the notice was issued. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Calcutta
High Court in the case of Grindlays Bank Ltd vs. ITO (116 ITR 710), the
decision of the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT vs. Mesco
Laboratories Ltd (288 ITR 219) and the decision of the Apex court in the case
of ITO vs. Lakhmani Mewal Das (103 ITR 437).
l. That if there are multiple reasons, some relevant and other irrelevant or
incorrect thus reopening must be quashed since it is unclear as to which
reason the officer relied upon. Reliance was placed on the decision of the
Gujarat High Court in the case of Sagar Enterprises vs. ACIT (257 ITR 335). In
the facts of Appellant's case, four reasons were recorded by the AO, of the
four reasons, two reasons are undisputedly incorrect or wrong. Thus it was
argued that the reopening must be quashed since it is unclear as to which
reasons the AO relied upon.
m. In the reasons recorded for reopening, jurisdiction to reopen was assumed
on the footing that the Appellant has a permanent establishment/business
connection in India. However the assessment, was concluded by taxing the
royalty earned from Non-resident OEMs on a gross basis under Article 12 of the
Indo- US DTAA(Treaty) and not under Article 12(7)(a) of the Treaty. Hence it
is argued that such an assessment results in vitiating the entire proceedings
since the basis on which jurisdiction was assumed was itself found
unsustainable. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Bombay High Court in
the case of CIT vs. Jet Airways (I) Ltd (331 ITR 236) and the decision of the
jurisdictional High Court in the case of Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd vs. CIT (ITA
No.148 of 2008) where in the court has concurred with the  22 decision of the
Bombay High Court in the case of Jet Airways (I) Ltd.
n. The first CDMA mobile services was launched in India by Reliance Infocomm
on 15.01.2003. Hence, no royalty income can deem to accrue or arise to the
Appellant for the AY 2000-01 and AY 2001-02. Therefore, the notice issued
under section 148 of the Act for the AY 2000-01 and AY 2001-02 is invalid and
must be quashed as none of the reasons stated by the AO for reopening stand to
test. In support of this contention, Mr. Dastur had furnished a copy of the
press release dated 14.01.2003 downloaded from the website of Reliance
Communications on the launch date of CDMA services in India.
o. For A.Y. 2000-2001 an additional ground has been taken that since the
reasons have been furnished after the expiry of 6 years from AY 2000-2001
reassessment proceedings are barred by limitation.
p. Further additional ground was taken for the AY 2000-2001 and 2001-02 that
sanction u/s 151(2) was not obtained from the Joint Commissioner of Income tax
('JCIT') for reopening of the assessment and hence bad in law.
q. It was argued that sanction in the present case has been accorded by the
Addl .Director of Income Tax ('Addl.DIT'), who is different from the
prescribed authority i.e. JCIT defined u/s 2(28C) of the Act. It was submitted
that the office of the JCIT is distinct and separate from that of an Addl.DIT
and when a section vest the power to a specific authority, such powers cannot
be exercised by any other authority albeit higher in rank. It was submitted
that the notice under section 148 of the Act  23 having been issued without
obtaining proper sanction is void abinitio and deserves to be quashed.
Reliance is placed on the decision of the Delhi Bench in the case of ITO vs.
Mrs. Naveen Khanna (12 DTR 222 (Del). It was further submitted that the
revenue's appeal against the above decision has been dismissed by the
Jurisdictional high court r. That the sanction accorded by the Addl.DIT is
mechanical and without application of mind and hence the reassessment is bad
in law. The reasons recorded suppress a material fact that the newspaper
articles relied upon the by the AO to assume jurisdiction to issue notice
under S.148 for the A.Y. 2000-01 were published in the year 2006. In view of
this suppression, the Addl.DIT could not have applied her mind to whether
reasons recorded have a live link with the year sought to reopened, viz A.Y.
2000-01 and A.Y. 2001-02. In absence of application of mind to the
aforementioned fact, the sanction ought to be regarded as mechanical and
invalid in the eyes of law. That the sanction accorded by the Addl. DIT is
mechanical, is further evident from the fact that the AO had forwarded the
sheet recording reasons along with the following text just below the reasons
recorded:
"on the reasons recorded by the AO , I am satisfied that it is a fit case for
issuance of notice under section 148. The issuance of notice is approved. The
AO shall ensure that the notice served is within the time limit as provided by
the statue".
The above shows that the Addl. DIT has merely signed on the dotted line, as it
were. Even the injunction upon himself to serve the notice in time set out by
the AO himself in the sheet recording the reasons. Further, the above text
does not demonstrate any application of mind and is equivalent to a  24 simple
"yes". Accordingly, he submitted that the sanction granted is without
application of mind and is mechanical. Therefore, the notice issued under
section 148 is invalid. In support of his content, he relied on the decision
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Chhugmal Rajpal vs. SP Chaliah (79
ITR 603) wherein it was held that sanction granted in a mechanical manner
without proper application of mind is bad in law. He also placed reliance on
the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case The Central India Electric
Supply Co. Ltd vs. ITO (333 ITR
237) and CIT vs. Mesco Laboratories Limited ( 288 ITR 219),
15\. Revenues submissions on reopening:
The Ld.Special Counsel for the Revenue Mr.G.C Srivastav strongly refuted the
submissions made by Mr.Dastur. His submissions on the validity of reopening
are as follows:-
a. That it is a settled proposition of law that the validity of reopening of
an assessment u/s 147 of the Act has to be judged only on the basis of the
reasons recorded by the AO and not on the basis of subsequent developments or
based on final conclusions arrived at the time of assessment or in the
appellate proceedings;
b. The satisfaction of the AO is a subjective satisfaction and has to be
tested on the basis whether a rational person on a given material, would come
to the said satisfaction.
c. In the present case, no returns of income were filed by the Appellant for
all these years and no assessments were framed prior to the reopening of the
assessments. The AO reopened the assessments and notice u/s 148 dt. 29.3.2007
was issued.
25
Thus the reopening of assessments for AY 2000-2001and 2001- 02 fell within the
limitation of 6 years and for the later years fall within the limitation of 4
years.
d. The word 'reason to believe' appearing in S.147 of the Act does not mean to
suggest that the AO. should have made final enquiries with regard to facts and
come to a final conclusion about escapement of income. The sufficiency or
correctness of the material is not a thing to be considered at this stage. It
is sufficient if prima facie some material on the basis of which the
department could reopen the case. In support of his contention, he relied on
the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of ACIT vs. Rajesh
Jhaveri Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (291 ITR
500) where in it was held that the word "reason" in the phrase "reason to
believe" would mean cause or justification. If the Assessing Officer has cause
or justification to know or suppose that income had escaped assessment, it can
be said to have reason to believe that an income had escaped assessment. The
expression cannot be read to mean that the Assessing Officer should have
finally ascertained the fact by legal evidence or conclusion.
Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Raymond Woolen Mills (236 ITR 034) and on the decision of the Delhi
High Court in the case of Bawa Abhay Singh vs.DCIT ( 253 ITR 83).
The Appellate authorities can look as to whether the assumption of
jurisdiction is arbitrary or malafide or whether the satisfaction recorded is
such that lacks application of mind. On these broad propositions,
Mr.Srivastava further submitted that:
26
The facts before the Assessing Officer were:-
a. Qualcomm is the owner of CDMA technology which is used in India by Indian
Wireless net work providers;
b. Reliance and Tata acquired handsets from the OEMs for the price which has
an element of royalty embedded in it;
c. One of the Indian operators sought to negotiate with Qualcomm for the
reduction of the royalty component of the prices of the hand set, so as to
bring down the final cost;
d. the Central Government is also supporting this and held discussions with
Qualcomm;
e. Qualcomm is running a R&D Centre which they have promised to extend by
increasing the head counts;
As per the law, royalty paid by a resident and as well as by a Non- resident
under certain circumstances is taxable in India and this is before the
Assessing Officer;
The Assessing Officer in the reasons recorded arrived at three conclusions,
for which he had adequate material:-
> a. The Press release dt. 23.3.99 indicates that the assessee owns several
> patent and IPRs in connection with CDMA technology. The Press release notes
> that 60 major manufacturers of telephonic equipment have taken royalty
> bearing licenses from the Appellant. The said press release, the
> authenticity whereof is not disputed, demonstrates unequivocally that the
> Appellant owns the intellectual property rights in relation to CDMA
> technology.
27
b. News item dt. 28.6.2006 indicated that there has been interaction of the
Appellant with the Central government with regard to the issue of making
available handsets at cheaper rates by reducing the royalty based on the
statement of Dr.Jacob representing Qualcomm that the Appellant company was not
manufacturing handsets yet it was giving licenses to the companies like LG and
Samsung to produce handsets. Based on this information, the AO came to the
conclusion that the Appellant company is earning royalty from licensing of
CDMA technology. The press report dt. 15.6.2006 refers to the meeting between
the Appellant with the central government and also with Reliance which
supports the conclusions of the AO. Reference was also made to the difference
in the rate of royalty for operators in China and those in India. Report dt.
29.6.2006 refers to the efforts of Qualcomm in negotiating the price with
equipment manufacturers for the benefit of Indian operators.
c. From these reports the veracity of which is not in dispute, the AO
concluded that the Appellant company is earning royalties in respect of
handsets operational in India and further that the price of royalty component
for the use of CDMA technology is directly negotiated and licensed by the
Appellant and the Indian Telecom operators in India. The AO held that the
royalties to the Appellant not only arise in India but are also paid by the
Indian concern indirectly.
The above information was adequate to come to the belief that there was a
prima facie case for the chargeability of royalty income under Section
9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act and such  28 conclusion by the AO cannot be said to be
irrational or perverse.
d. Even if on merits at some stage, if it is found that S.
9(1)(vi)(c)of the Act is not applicable, then also, it would not lead to an
inference that the belief formed by the Assessing Officer was not based on
proper material or was as such could not be drawn by a rational person.
e. The Appellant had entered into a technical service agreement with Reliance
and during the course of arguments, the Ld.Sr.Councel conceded that income
chargeable by way of fee for included services was disclosed in the returns
filed in pursuance to notice under S. 148 of the Act for A.Y. 2003-04 and
2004-05. That the argument that there was no escapement of income since tax
was deducted at source is untenable.
f. The copy of the technical service agreement, which could demonstrate the
period during which services were rendered was placed before the AO only in
the course of assessment proceedings and earlier to this event, the AO had no
material to come to a different conclusion.
g. The conclusion of the AO with regard to business connection in India is
based on the information that the Appellant was having full fledged R&D centre
in India and it was only at a later date that it was clarified that the R&D
centres are owned by Subsidiary company from F.Y. 2005-06.
h. Though QIPL, the indirect subsidiary was incorporated in the year 1996 and
it became functional only in the year 2005-
06\. However subsequent discovery of facts or further  29 investigation in the
matter may go to establish that income did not arise in the given year or that
it was not chargeable to tax thus by itself would not render the belief formed
by the Assessing Officer as invalid.
i. On the issue as to whether, non- existent of one of the facts which lead to
certain inferences would vitiate the entire proceedings, it was submitted that
the AO has drawn a conclusion with regard to three different streams of the
income. It is submitted that if reasons recorded by him for in all these 3
streams of income, which are independent of each other survive, then the
reopening would be valid. For each stream of income the conclusion was based
on a set of information which is independent of the other stream.
j. The findings of the CIT(A) that there is no business action or PE in India
is of no consequence as the reasons recorded by the AO are based on relevant
material.
k. Though the press report relates to the year 2006 and not to the earlier
years, once it has come to the knowledge of the AO that CDMA technology is
being used in India, the satisfaction with regard to escapement of income
would relate back to the point of time when technology came/used for the first
time in India unless there are contrary or distinguished in facts to indicate
that despite the technology being in use, there is no escapement of income in
such earlier years.
l. As regards sanction under  S. 151, Shri.G.C.Srivastava had furnished the
following documents in support of their contentions that the sanctioning  30
authority Ms. Sumedha Verma Ojha, the Addl.DIT was authorized to sanction
under S.151 (2) of the Act:
i. Notification dt.14.09.2001 defining the territorial jurisdiction of the
Directors and Commissioner of Income tax;
ii. Order No 37 of 2003 dt. 26.03.2003 showing that Ms. Sumedha Verma Ojha was
promoted on and from the date of the order to the grade of JCIT/ Jt.DIT; and
iii. Notification dt.11.101.2007 defining the territorial jurisdiction of the
Additional directors / Joint Directors of Income tax.
m. it is submitted that S.117 gives power to the Central Government to appoint
such persons as it thinks fit to be Income tax authorities which are
enumerated in S.116 of the Act and that Clause (cc) thereof puts Additional
Commissioners and Additional Directors in the same Clause. A notification is
placed before the Tribunal authorizing the Jt.Directors to perform the
functions of a Jt.Commissioner. Thus it is submitted that when an Additional
Director issues sanction under Section 151 he/she is performing the function
of a Jt.Commissioner irrespective of the nomenclature of his/her post. It is
within the competence of Central Government to authorize one party to perform
statutory function in capacity of the other party and the validity of the
sanction could be challenged only if the person giving the sanction was not
authorized to do so.
16\. Rejoinder of the Assessee on the reassessment :
The Ld. Senior Counsel in his rejoinder to the Revenue's contention  31
submitted that the reasons in the present case are based on mere conjectures
and surmises. Therefore cannot be regarded as establishing even a prima facie.
Further, he submitted that decisions relied by the Revenue in this regard are
distinguishable on facts. While submitting so, he had stated his detailed
reasons in respect of each of the case laws relied by the Revenue.
Insofar as the documents furnished by the Revenue in support of their
submission that the sanctioning authority viz. Ms.Sumedha Verma Ojha (Addl.
DIT) was authorized to grant sanction u/s 151(2) of the Act. The Ld.
Sr.Counsel for the Appellant submitted that the Revenue relies on the
notification dt. 14.09.2001 and 11.10.2007 to submit that a Director of
Income-tax is same as a Commissioner of Income-tax and is called so merely
because he exercises jurisdiction over non-resident assessee's and foreign
companies. Mr. Dastur submitted that a Director's office is recognized as a
separate office under the Act and drew the attention of the Bench to section
2(1D), 2(7A), 2(28C), 2(28D), 132A (1),132(1), 133 and proviso to Section 133
(6) of the Act to confirm that the statue regards a Joint Director to be
separate from a Joint Commissioner or a Director to be separate from a
Commissioner.
17\. Admission of additional evidence:- The Ld. Special Counsel for the
revenue Mr Srivastava filed an application for admission of additional
evidence in the form of two agreements, the first being agreement entered into
between Tata Tele Services Ltd. and Motorola Inc. for purchase of equipment
dt. 8.12. 2007 and agreement between Tata Tele Services Ltd. and ZTE
Corporation dt. 19.02.2007 which is also an equipment purchase agreement. The
Ld. Special Counsel submitted that these two agreements are neither before the
AO nor the CIT (A) and these should be admitted for the reason that, it would
help in understanding and demonstrating the business model followed in  32
these cases. He emphasized that the relevance of these agreements are limited
to demonstrate the business models.
The Ld. Sr. Counsel for the Appellant Mr Dastur strongly objected to the
admission of additional evidence on various grounds. He submitted that these
agreements are not the basis for making the assessment and that they have no
relevance to the case. However, later when the bench wanted to adjudicate this
issue separately, before proceeding with the merits of the case, the
Ld.Sr.Counsel agreed for the admission of these two documents for enabling
expeditious disposal of the appeal, with a caveat that reliance should not be
placed on these evidences, when there is no relevance to the case on hand and
agreements in question, as these agreements have been entered into in
financial years relevant to AY 2008-09 and AY 2007-08 and as these are not
connected in any manner to the issue on hand.
In view of the rival submissions, we admit these additional evidences though
the case of the A.O. or the C.I.T(A) are not based on these documents and it
is well settled that the revenue cannot plead an entirely new case before the
tribunal .
18\. Submissions of the Assessee on Merits:
On merits Mr.Dastur, the Ld.Sr.Counsel started with the facts of the case and
on the basis of the facts, he formulated two basic propositions which in his
view are fundamental to the resolution of the case. The first question being
a) whether the royalty income earned by QCOM from the OEMs situated outside
India can be brought to tax: a) under S. 9(1)(vi)(C) of the Act and b) Article
12(7)(b) of the DTAA between India and the Unites States.
33
19\. Arguments on applicability of S. 9(1)(vi)( C) of the Act:
Mr.Dastur pointed out that royalty is payable by the OEMs, who are situated
outside India, to Qualcomm for exploitation of patents held by Qualcomm, for
manufacturing handsets and equipment outside India.
Referring to S.9(1)(vi) of the Act, Mr. Dastur read out sub clause (b) and
submitted that in respect of a person who is a Resident, royalty payable is
taxable, except in certain circumstances. When an assessee claims that it is
covered by the Exceptions to the Rule, the burden is on the assessee to prove
that it falls within those exceptions. He contrasted the same with sub clause
C of S.9(1)(vi) of the Act and submitted that in case of a Non-Resident, the
burden is on the Revenue to prove that the royalty is payable in respect of
any right, property or information used or services utilized for the purpose
of a business or profession carried on by such person in India or for the
purpose of making or earning any income from any source in India. He argued
that when Revenue claims that a charge is attracted, the burden lies on the
Revenue to prove the same and when the assessee claims that it falls within
the Exceptions, the burden is on the assessee to prove that it falls within
the Exception. Reliance was placed on the following decisions:
 Parimisetti Seetharamamma Vs. CIT, [57 ITR 532 (SC)];
 CIT Vs. Rajesh Pilot, [219 CTR 403, (Delhi HC)]; and  Decca Survey Overseas
Ltd., UK ,[ITA No.8506/Bom/1990].
Posing a question, the Ld.Sr. Counsel submitted that it is to be seen whether
the Non Resident was paid royalty in respect of right, property or information
used or services utilized 'for the purpose of business' carried on by such
person in India or 'for the purpose of making or  34 earning any income from
any source in India.' He submitted that CDMA patents were used for
manufacturing CDMA products outside India and that sale is a subsequent event.
He pointed out that the agreements are not India's specific and the OEMs
manufactured the hand sets and equipments using the patents of Qualcomm and
could sell the product anywhere in the world and it is not specific to an
Indian Carrier. He emphasized that technology for manufacturing products is
different from product which is manufactured from the use of the technology.
On the meaning of 'making or earning any income from any source in India' he
submitted that ultimate use of a product manufactured by the OEMs using the
patents licensed by Qualcomm, in India, cannot be said to be a source in
India. Giving example he submitted that source is an overall activity carried
out and a part of an activity cannot constitute a source. Giving an example he
submitted that if a retailer sells 100 pens to 100 different persons, each
person to whom a pen is sold is not a source.
He referred to the 16 agreements entered into by the Appellant with the
manufacturers of hand sets and submitted that as redacted copies were filed by
the assessee, originals are now furnished for verification and that an
Affidavit was filed in support of the statement that no material omissions
relatable to taxability of royalty were made in the redacted copies. The Ld.
Special Counsel for the Revenue had no objection to furnishing of the
affidavit and to placing reliance on the redacted license agreements.
He highlighted various Clauses of the agreements to emphasize the fact that
the agreements were entered long before India came into the picture i.e. in
1993, which is much before to 2001 and the royalty  35 payment is dependent on
time factor and not on the realization of the sale proceeds by the
manufacturers.
He referred to various clauses of a second type of agreement which deals with
manufacture of handsets as well as net work equipment and submitted that only
change is the provision for payment of a lump sum fee.
He emphasized the fact that Qualcomm's role ends with license of the
intellectual property for manufacturing handsets and net work equipments and
claimed that in such situation Qualcomm has no source in India.
20\. He further submitted that:-
a. The source for Qualcomm is the agreement with the licensee alone and that
this agreement has no reference to India; Source is the activity that raises
income. In the present case, the right property or information licensed to the
OEMs relates to manufacture of the products and hence the source is the
activity of manufacturing. Thus, there is no activity in India. Reliance was
placed on the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Rhodesia Metals
Limited vs. CIT (9 ITR (Suppl) 45 and the Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Havells India Limited (ITA No.55/2012, ITA 57/ 2012).
b. General agreements do not come within the ambit of S.9(1)(vi)(c) and for
this section to be attracted, the use of the right, property or information or
utilization of the services, is to be within the knowledge of the licensee;
c. When the agreements have worldwide operation, S.9(1)(vi)(c) does not apply.
36
d. The OEMs sell the products i.e. the handsets on shipment outside India.
21\. In view of the above, Mr.Dastur wondered how the Appellant could be said
to have a 'source of income in India' when none of the OEMs were held as
having 'source of income in India' and when no assessment is ought to be made
of any of the OEMs.
22\. He relied on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Ishikawajima Harima Heavy Industries Limited vs.DIT(288 ITR 408 (S.C.) and the
decision in the case of DIT vs. Ericson AB (246 CTR 433, Delhi) for the
proposition that, if the property in the goods passes abroad, no part of the
sale proceeds can be taxed in India. He submitted that the source of the OEMs,
is sale and it would be a contradiction to say that the OEMs such as LG etc.
have no source of income in India and to hold otherwise in the case of
Qualcomm.
23\. On the evidences relied by the Revenue Mr Dastur arguments on each of
these documents are as follows:
A. Memorandum of understanding between Qualcomm and Reliance Communications
Private Limited dated 26.03.2001.
Without prejudice to his contention that these documents have no relevance,
the Ld. Sr. Counsel submitted that this document was relied by the Revenue to
contend that Qualcomm is actively interested in the utilization of the CDMA
technology in India. However, he argued that the Memorandum in no way
demonstrates that the OEMs carry on business in India or that they have a
source of income in India, much less that the patents to manufacture the
products licensed by Qualcomm have been used by the OEMs in a business carried
on by them in India or for the purposes of making or earning any income  37
from any source in India and hence is irrelevant for the purposes of bringing
to tax the royalty earned by Qualcomm under S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act.
That the proposal by Qualcomm to invest in the equity capital of Reliance was
called off and this information is available in the public knowledge. The
recitals and the clauses of the Memorandum to that extent represent mere
statements of intent and therefore do not survive and are irrelevant for the
purposes of any proceedings. Pursuant to this Memorandum, a technical service
agreement was entered into by QCOM and Reliance on 16.10.2001 and there after
the Memorandum has no relevance.
Further, it was submitted that S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act itself draws a
distinction between the terms "use" and "utilized". Insofar as royalty for
right to use the property or information is concerned the word used in the
statute is "used" and not "utilized". The allegation that CDMA technology is
utilized in India is incorrect; what is utilized in India is the product of
that technology. This distinction is on par with the distinction between the
use of a copyright and the use of a copyrighted article as brought out by the
Delhi High Court in Ericsson's case (at paragraph 59 and 60, page 24).
B. Technical services agreement between Qualcomm and Reliance Communications
Private Limited dated 16.10.2001 It was submitted that the above document was
relied by the Ld. Special Counsel for the Department to demonstrate that
Qualcomm has participated with Reliance in various activities regarding
setting up of the CDMA system in India.
38
Mr. Dastur submitted that the Qualcomm has been remunerated for the services
under this agreement and the entire amount received for technical services was
offered to tax in India during the AY 2002-03 and AY 2003-04 under S.
9(1)(vii)(b) of the Act and under Article 12 of the DTAA. Further it was
submitted that no intellectual property/ patents has been licensed to Reliance
under this agreement. Thus the agreement in no way demonstrates that the OEMs
carry on business in India or that they have a source of income in India.
C. Technical services agreement between Qualcomm and Tata Teleservices Limited
dated 02.03.2004.
In addition to the arguments raised in the case of agreement with Reliance
(SUPRA), it was submitted that the technical services agreement with Tata was
entered on 02.03.2004 and therefore has no relevance to the years under
consideration.
D. Subscriber unit license agreement between Qualcomm and Asia Telco (OEM)
dated 18.04.2008.
Mr. Dastur submitted that the above agreement was filed by the Appellant
during the course of the assessment proceedings for the AY 2009-10. This
agreement was relied by the Ld. Special Counsel to demonstrate that the
agreement between Qualcomm and OEM are India specific since Qualcomm charges a
different amount of fixed royalty with respect to sales made to Indian
customers. However, Mr. Dastur submitted that the agreement has no relevance
to the years under consideration. Further no adverse inference had been drawn
either by AO or by the DRP with regard to this agreement even in the year to
which it relates. Therefore the agreement cannot be relied upon.
Further it was submitted that the 16 license agreements which are  39 relevant
for the years under appeal have been filed before the CIT (A) and none of the
16 agreements have any royalty date different for India, as compared to the
rest of the World. The grant under this agreement insofar as manufacture of
handsets or network equipment, are concerned it is non exclusive,
transferrable and worldwide. This is identical with the 16 license agreements
that are relevant for the AYs under appeal. Except for having different rate
of upfront royalty payable in respect of handsets sold to Indian customers,
there is no other India specific restriction in the agreement. Hence, the
license granted cannot be regarded as India specific.
Further, the agreement in no way demonstrates that the patents to manufacture
the products licensed by Qualcomm have been used by the OEMs to carry on
business in India or for the purpose of making or earning any income from any
source in India. Hence, it is irrelevant for the purposes of bringing to tax
the royalty earned by Qualcomm under S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act.
E. Equipment purchase agreement between Tata Teleservices Limited and Motorola
Inc (Motorola or the OEM) dated 08.12.2007. This agreement was filed as
additional evidence by the Revenue to demonstrate that  The OEMs carry out
installation activities in India which amounts to business carried on in
India.
 The sale of the equipment is concluded in India since the equipment is to be
delivered by the OEM to an Indian airport / sea port .
 The OEMs license software to India carriers and hence have a source of
income in India.
At the outset, Mr. Dastur submitted that the this agreement has no relevance
to the years under consideration since it has been entered into in the
financial year 2007-08 relevant to AY 2008-09. Further no  40 adverse
inference had been drawn either by AO or by the DRP with regard to this
agreement even in the year to which it relates. Therefore the agreement cannot
be relied upon.
On the installation activities, it was submitted that the contention of the
Revenue that the OEM (i.e. Motorola) carries on installation work for Tata and
hence there is some business operations carried on by the OEM in India is
belied by clause 5.7.8/ page 8 of the agreement itself which provides that
installation activities are to be carried out by a third party appointed by
the Indian Carrier (i.e. Tata).Even on a demurrer that the OEM (i.e. Motorola)
carries on installation activities in India, this agreement nowhere shows that
the OEM (i.e. Motorola) uses the right property or information licensed by
Qualcomm to Motorola, in carrying out such installation activity. In fact
Qualcomm has no right property or information with respect to installation
activity and hence the question of granting a license thereof or user thereof
by the OEM does not arise.
Apart therefrom, there is no consideration for carrying out installation
activities under the contract referred to by the Revenue, and since the
installations are incidental to the sale, no attribution can be made in view
of the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT vs.
Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. (109 ITR 158), which has been concurred with by the
jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT Vs. Ericisson A.B., [246 CTR 422
@ paragraph 48, page 20 (Del HC)]. On the contention that the sale concludes
in India, Mr. Dastur argued that the Revenue has once again relied on the
agreement between the OEM (i.e. Motorola) and Tata dated 8.12.2007 to say that
since the OEM is to bear the cost of packing/loading/unloading,
transportation, carriage, freight, unloading charges, insurance and any other
cost or any nature at any time prior to delivery, therefore the sale concludes
in India. Placing reliance on the Supreme Court decision on Ishikawajima
Harima Heavy Industries Ltd Vs. DIT [ 288 ITR 408 @  41 paragraph 73 (SC)] and
in the case of DIT Vs. Ericisson A.B.,[246 CTR 422 @ paragraph 37, (Del HC)]
it was submitted that it is now a settled law that if the property in goods
passes abroad no part of the sales proceeds can be taxed in India, albeit sold
to an Indian party or the delivery is effected in India.
Clause 14.1 of the agreement between Tata & Motorola clearly provides that the
title in goods passes to the Indian Carrier at the "port of shipment" and not
the "port of destination". Hence, the obligation on the OEM to bear the cost
of delivery up to the port of destination is irrelevant to decide where the
title passes. This is merely a contractual term between the parties to clarify
who is to bear cost of transshipment.
Apart therefrom, he also submitted that the agreement states that delivery of
goods by the OEM to Tata will take place at the port of shipment albeit as per
CIP Incoterms 2000, which only means that the cost of carriage till the port
of destination in India will be borne by the OEM. CIP Incoterms 2000 provide
that the delivery from the seller to the buyer concludes at the port of
shipment upon delivery to the carrier. Indeed in the case of Erricson AB, the
terms were: The title to hardware, spare parts and test equipment shall pass
to JTM when delivered to the carrier at the port of shipment in Sweden, i.e.
identical and the jurisdictional High Court has held that the property passes
outside India. In fact, section 20 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 provides
that property in goods which are in deliverable state passes upon delivery,
which in the contract relied upon by the Revenue means at the port of
shipment.
On the contention that software is licensed by OEMs to Indian Carriers, it was
submitted that the software licensed to Indian Carriers by the OEM, belongs to
the OEM. It may be OEM generated software or OEM procured software. No
software is provided as part of the licensing of Qualcomm's patents. Further,
no amount of the royalty  42 assessed by the revenue in the hands of Qualcomm
is for the licensing of software. The royalty that is assessed by the revenue
pertains to patents licensed by Qualcomm and therefore, the reference to
software licensed by OEMs to Indian Carriers is irrelevant and out of context.
Qualcomm's patent license has no connection with the software, which relates
to the functionality aspect of the product and not with the products
capability to provide CDMA connectivity. Further, it was submitted that the
software licensed is an integral part of the hardware and hence cannot be
treated independent / separately from the hardware. Therefore, it must be
regarded as sale in composite manner as sale of goods. It was also submitted
that the OEM receives no separate consideration for the licensing of the
software which establishes that the software is meant only to be used with the
hardware and not independently. For this preposition, reliance was placed on
the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case DIT Vs. Ericsson A.B.,[246
CTR 422 at paragraph 56, 57 and 60 (Del HC). F. Equipment purchase agreement
between Tata Teleservices Limited and ZTE Corporation ('ZTE' or the 'OEM')
dated 19.02.2007.
24\. It was submitted that no separate arguments were advanced by the Revenue
Counsel and the import of this agreement was same that of Motorola. He placed
reliance on the arguments made in the context of Motorola (SUPRA).
25\. The Ld. Special Counsel for the Revenue Mr.G.C Srivastava on the other
hand opposed to the contentions of Mr.Dastur and submitted that the
chargeability of royalty income in the hands of the Appellant in India, has to
be examined with reference to the provisions of section 9(1)(vi)(c) read with
section 5(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
43
26\. He agreed that section 9(1)(vi)(c) raises a deeming fiction to bring to
charge any income by way of royalty if such royalty is payable by a Non
resident in respect of any right, property or information used either
a) for the purpose of business carried on; by such non- resident person in
India; b) for the purpose of making or earning any income from any source in
India.
27\. He submitted that section .9(1)(vi)(c) and section .9(1)(vii)(c) of the
Act are payment based taxations. He emphasized the language employed in
section 9(1)(vi) is "used for the purpose of" in contra distinction to
"utilized in the business" as appearing in section 9(1)(vii)(c). He submitted
that the property maybe used anywhere i.e. in or outside India, but the use
should be for the purpose of business or profession carried on in India and
for the purpose of earning income from a source in India. He emphasized that
the situs of the use of the property is not material what is material is the
purpose of the use of the property, whether it is for business carried on in
India or for a source in India.
28\. He contended that If the OEMs (the payers of royalty) are found to have
used the property either for carrying on business in India or for earning
income from a source in India, the income shall be deemed to have arisen in
India and would be chargeable to tax and that nothing further needs to be
established for the chargeability under the domestic law. He further submitted
that the two limbs of S.9(1)(vi)(c) carrying on business in India and having
the source of income in India are not inter dependent on each other and may
operate independent of each other.
29\. On the issue as to whether OEMs carrying on business in India, he
submitted that:-
44
a. Business as defined in section 2(13) of the Act, is admittedly an
expression of wide import. The business is not only manufacturing or trading
but encompasses many other activities which together constitute a business.
Example of MNCs was cited to prove the point that different activity of a
composite business are carried out in different locations e.g. manufacturing
in one jurisdiction and sales in another jurisdiction and that it cannot be
said that business is done in one of the jurisdictions only.
b. That handsets or equipments although manufactured outside India are not off
shell products or standard product which can be sold to anyone in any location
and that the sale by OEMs is India's specific.
c. The entire supply of handsets/ equipments by the OEMs is India Specific.
This is evident from the stipulations in the agreements that OEMs will
manufacture the handsets/ equipments as per the design made by the OEMs and
approved by a particular operator, at the technical standards and
specifications and for an agreed price.
d. That hand sets are manufactured with codes which are programmed to be
specific to net work provider. These codes are not of the kind which can be
put to the handsets after these are received in India.
30\. Reliance was placed in the case of Syed Asifuddin and another (AP) 200 L
CRILJ 4314 for the proposition that handsets provided by LG and Samsung to
Reliance prior to 2005 was specifically designed and programmed for Reliance.
Further, it was submitted that the following findings of the fact by the High
Court leave no room for any doubt in this regard.
i. Hand sets are proprietary to Reliance;
45
ii. there is an agreement between Reliance and manufacturer of hand sets' iii.
the hand sets are to be exclusively used by Reliance; iv. MIN of Reliance
phone is irreversibly integrated with ESN;
v. Samsung and N191 and LG 2030 handsets are exclusively franchised to
Reliance;
vi. that handsets are computer program (software) with source code within the
meaning of Indian Copy Right Act and Indian Information technology Act.
e. The test is to determine whether the property has been used by OEMs "for
the purpose of carrying on business in India" in terms of section 9(1)(vi)(c)
and that it is not necessary to look at the arrangements between QCOM and
OEMs. The use of technology by the OEMs for the purpose of carrying on
business in India is sufficient nexus for the purpose of section 9(1)(vi)(c)
of the Act. The use of technology by QCOM in India or use of technology by
OEMs in various other jurisdictions has no relevance or consequence for the
purpose of applicability of section 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act.
f. That when handsets and equipments are manufactured for use of a specified
service provider, then the OEMs have used the technology for the purpose of
carrying on business in India. g. The license for use of technology embedded
in a hand set/equipment is also granted to specific operators in India under
the agreement, and hence it is used by the OEMs for manufacturing India
specific supplies.
h. On the Appellant's argument that sale to different jurisdictions cannot be
considered as a source i.e. each party to whom a  46 product is sold by the
manufacturer cannot be regarded as a source, it was submitted that this is of
no consequence for the reason that products manufactured by the OEMs are not
standard products which are sold anywhere and everywhere. Besides, one may
have different source of income lying in different jurisdictions if the
supplies differ in technical specifications, customization and are location
specific.
31\. On the issue whether the title passes in India or outside India, he
submitted that:-
a. Section 19(1) of the Sale of Goods Act provides in a contract for the sale
of goods, the property is transferred to a buyer at such time as the parties
to the contract intend it to be transferred. However section 19(2) of the Act
provides that for the purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties,
regard shall be had to: i. the terms of the contract;
ii. the conduct of the parties; and iii. the circumstances of the case b. The
contract has to be read as a whole to ascertain the intention of the parties.
In the Motorola agreement, Clause 14.1 provides that the title and the risk
shall pass upon delivery in accordance with the CIP Incoterms 2000 port of
shipment. The word delivery has been defined on page 44 of the agreement to
mean "physical delivery by the supplier of the equipment ordered by TTSL on
CIP terms at airports/ seaports mutually designated by the parties". CIP has
been defined on the page 43 of the agreement to mean "cost, insurance paid to
airport / seaport in India" as defined in Incoterms 2000.
c. The definition of these terms clearly indicates that the entire risk is
borne by the supplier and carriage and insurance charges paid  47 till their
delivery at airport/ seaport in India. The repeated reference by the Appellant
to Incoterms 2000 does not alter the situation because the expression by its
very definition in the agreement means the obligation to bear the carriage and
insurance charges upto airport/ seaport in India. It would be illogical to
read that the parties particularly Tata in India, can agree to the delivery at
any airport/ seaport outside India. This becomes further evident from the
definition of "Site" on page 47 of the agreement which reads to mean "the land
building and/ or any other place where the equipment is to be delivered". It
is obvious that the reference to the "sites" is to the place where the network
is to be installed and commissioned.
d. Clause 4.15 of the agreement further provides that the supplier shall
ensure that the equipment is "as per agreed scope of the purchase order".
Clause 7.5 gives the right to buyer to change the location at which the
equipment is originally required to be delivered. It further provides that the
purchase order given by the buyer does always mention the location of the
delivery of the equipment.
e. Referring to all above clauses, it was submitted that if the agreement is
read as a whole the intent of the parties is clear that the title to the
equipment passes in India at the site where the deliveries are made or in a
worst scenario at the airports/ seaports in India.
f. Regarding the agreement between Tata and ZTE, he submitted that Clause 14.1
on page 33 states that the "title shall pass in high seas before arrival in
India and the risk of loss shall pass upon provisional acceptance". Under
normal circumstances, the risk and title would go together. In the present
case, the terms of the agreement read as whole and the conduct of the parties
go to indicate that the terms indicated in clause 14.1 do not  48 demonstrate
the true intent of the parties. The fourth preamble to the agreement on page 2
of the agreement provides that buyer has asked the supplier to supply/deliver
the "equipment in full and guaranteed working condition to the full
satisfaction of TTSL". This condition of the supply cannot be met if the goods
are delivered on High seas. The "full satisfaction" can be reached only in
India after the provisional acceptance. Clause 2.8 of the agreement on page 3
defines the scope of the supplies and includes various task including, network
planning and RF optimization. The provisional acceptance is referred to in
clause 4.1 of page 16 to define the supplier's obligation and clause goes on
to provide that the supplier shall manufacture, supply, deliver, all the
equipment "to achieve provisional acceptance and final acceptance of the
equipment in accordance with schedule A". This clause further indicates that
supplies and delivery of equipments is subject to achieving provisional
acceptance. One cannot pick up one part of supply obligation and contend that
the title has passed with the discharge of that obligation.
g. The definition of "delivery" on page 5 of the agreement stipulates
"physical delivery by the supplier of the equipment ordered by TTSL on DDU
terms at the site". DDU is defined on the same page to mean "site or sites in
India" as defined in Incoterms 2000. The clause goes on further to state that
it means the supplier fulfils his obligation "when goods had been made
available at the named sites in the country of importation." The word "site"
has been defined on page 9 of the agreement to mean "the land, building and/or
any other places where the equipment is to be delivered. Carrying out of the
deliveries as directed by TTSL in writing". It is obvious that the reference
is to the "sites" in India and delivery obligation is on the supplier for
delivering the goods  49 to a site in India. It is needless to repeat that
Incoterms 2000 only refer to the terms of the agreement generally acceptable
between the contracting parties with regard to obligation to bear the cost of
transportation, insurance till the point of delivery. Thus, if the agreement
is viewed as a whole, it demonstrates that the supplier has the obligation to
deliver the goods at the relevant sites in India and the declaration in clause
14.1 that the title passes in High seas does not reflect the actual mode and
delivery of the supply nor the true intent of the parties. h. Section 19(2) of
Sales of Goods Act provides for the factors to determine the intent of the
parties and if despite the declaration to the contrary under the section
19(1), if it is found as a matter of fact that the deliveries had been made in
India it would be open to Revenue to assert that title to the goods had passed
in India.
i. Section 21 of the Sales of Goods Act provides that where there is contract
for sale of specific goods and seller is bound to do something to goods for
the purpose of putting them in a deliverable state the property does not pass
until such thing is done and the buyer has notice thereof. In the present
case, the sale is not of standard goods but of components of a wireless
network. Unless the compatibility of the handsets and equipments is
established with CDMA network setup in India, these supplies would be
worthless. These handsets and equipment reached the deliverable state only
when their compatibility with existing network is established through the
provisional or final testing. The supplier has definite obligation to achieve
this milestone and unless this is done the property cannot pass. Unlike other
kinds of overseas supplies where the supplier has no other obligation beyond
the point of shipment, in the present case, the obligation of the supplier
extends to the  50 geographical limits of India where he has to put the supply
into a deliverable state. In CDMA technology, handsets and equipment are
integral part of the wholesome technology and these cannot be viewed
independently.
j. In view of the above, he submitted that there is no room for any doubt that
the title to the goods has passed in India despite the declaration in clause
14.1 to the contrary. In this scenario, it is not open to argue that OEMs do
not carry out business in India. If one leg of the business operations is in
India and other is in Korea, it cannot be said that OEMS carry business only
in Korea and not in India.
k. It is evident that the OEMs have used the property for the purpose of
carrying out business in India and the first limb of 9(1)(vi) (c ) of the Act
stands satisfied.
On the issue whether OEMs have source of income in India, Mr.Srivastava
submitted that:-
a. The agreement between the OEMs and the Indian operators demonstrate in no
uncertain terms that what is sold by them is the hardware and the not the
software embedded therein. b. OEMs are not only supplying the equipments but
they are licensing the software, the ownership of which is not transferred to
the operators in India. The software is licensed for the use of the operators.
Thus, the intellectual property for which the payment is made by OEMs to
Qualcomm is licensed for use in India which yields income and becomes a source
of income for the OEMs.
c. The two agreements which Indian operators entered with Motorola and ZTE
make a categorical difference between the sale of the equipment and licensing
of the software embedded in the  51 firmware. The Indian operator has also
agreed to purchase the equipment and license to use the software separately
(Clause 2.1 of Motorola agreement). Clause 2.2 of the agreement with ZTE also
clearly states that the supplier has agreed to "sell and license" and the
Indian operators have agreed to purchase the equipment and take license for
the software. Both OEMs and Indian operators treat the software embedded in
the handset/equipments as distinct from hardware. d. It is also incorrect to
say that software which is licensed for use is not the software belonging to
Qualcomm. The end user license agreement contained in clause 33.8.1 (Page 64)
of ZTE agreement clearly records undertaking from Tata that they will use CDMA
system, software and technology for their own use. It is not the software of
OEM for which undertaking is being given. It is for CDMA technology and
software which is the property of Qualcomm.
e. Clause 19.5 (page 43) of ZTE agreement further records that all licensed
material are the property of "the supplier or its suppliers". The supplier of
OEMs is Qualcomm which has supplied the intellectual property to be used under
a license for manufacturing of handsets/equipments.
f. The agreement between Qualcomm and OEM (Page 230 of appellant's PB) states
in the preamble itself that OEM desires to obtain a license of Qualcomm's
intellectual property to manufacture and sell subscriber units. The "chipsets"
is defined on page 232 to mean base band analogue, ASIC... purchased by
licensee from Qualcomm. From the reading of this definition of chipsets and
other definition of "CDMA ASIC" appearing on page 231 clearly shows that OEMs
have been given license to use chipset/ASIC purchased from Qualcomm in
manufacturing equipments/handsets. The CDMA technology belonging to  52
Qualcomm is embedded in chipsets which are used by OEMs and licensed to Indian
customers for further use by them. g. There is absolutely no material to,
suggest that Qualcomm has not licensed its technology/software to OEMs. If
software is not licensed then what is licensed by Qualcomm to OEMs. Clause 5.1
states that Qualcomm has guaranteed worldwide licenses under Qualcomm
intellectual property to make, import, use, sell, or lease or otherwise
dispose of subscriber units and (b) to make components and use and sell such
components. This clause does not make any reference to what kind of
intellectual property is being licensed. OEMs do not need any license to
manufacture handsets/equipments unless there is an intellectual property
belonging to Qualcomm which is going to be used by OEMs. This intellectual
property cannot be anything other than chipsets or some other software going
to be embedded in the handsets/equipments.
h. If this basic proposition is under dispute and suggestion is made that
software licensed by OEMs is not the property of Qualcomm then, the matter
needs a more critical examination by someone who understands CDMA technology
with all its technicalities. Reliance was placed on the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case C.I.T., Delhi vs M/S.Bharti Cellular Ltd
(330 ITR 239 (SC). He urged that if the Hon'ble bench finds itself in
agreement with the appellant that the license given to Indian operators is not
with regard to the software of Qualcomm embedded in the handsets/equipments,
then, matter may be remanded back to AO for obtaining the expert evidence to
find out:
i. What is the nature of technology licensed by Qualcomm to OEMs?
53
ii. What is the nature of software licensed by OEMs to Indian operators; and
iii. Whether it contains the technology made available by Qualcomm to OEMs
under a license.
i. In common understanding, Qualcomm has made available to OEMs its patented
technology of CDMA in the form of chipsets/ASIC. OEMs have incorporated these
chipsets/ASIC in the handsets/equipments manufactured by them and have in turn
licensed these to Indian operators. Therefore, it is not only OEMs who are
using the intellectual property of Qualcomm in manufacturing the
equipments/handsets, the Indian operators are also using the software embedded
in the hardware under a license from OEMs.
j. The finance Act of 2012 has introduced explanation 4 to section 9(1)(vi) to
clarify for removal of doubts that transfer of any right in an intellectual
property includes transfer of any right for use of a computer software
irrespective of the medium through which such right is transferred. The
amendment comes into operation with retrospective effect from 1.6.1976. In
view of this clarificatory amendment it is immaterial that the properties or
rights are embedded in handsets/equipments. The entire argument to the effect
that OEMs sell copyrighted article and do not give any right in the copyright
is of no consequence post this amendment.
k. Qualcomm is in not giving license to OEMs for manufacturing some
engineering or mechanical products. Qualcomm is having its patents for
wireless technology which has to have software and computer programs to
transmit or receive data/signals and provide connectivity and make the network
functional. This activity is possible only through the use of software which
are in other words only computer programs. Handsets are dumb  54 equipments
unless software providing connectivity to the network is embedded in it so is
the case with equipments. l. Therefore, when OEMs license the intellectual
property for a consideration (forming part of the overall consideration) to
Indian operators, they definitely have a source of income in India. m.
Reliance was placed on the decision of the Privy Council in the case of
Rhodesia Metals Limited reported 9 ITR 45 (Sup) where the Privy Council held
the view that the source does not mean a legal concept but something which a
practical man would regard as a real source of income. It is not in doubt that
in commercial parlance, OEMs definitely have a source of income in India in
the given facts and circumstances and all technical argument about the nature
of use etc. is really of no consequence.
32\. Further, on the applicability of the Jurisdiction High Court decision in
the case of Ericsson A.B. [246 CTR 422 (Del)], he submitted that the same is
totally inapplicable to the facts of the present case . That in the case of
Ericsson, the issues under consideration were :
i) Whether Foreign Company has any business connection in India or-
not?
ii) Whether Foreign Company has PE in India or not?
iii) Whether the income from the supply contract can be treated as 'royalty'
under section 9(1)(vi)?
In this case it was held that the Foreign co. has no business connection in
India and it was also held that if the assessee did not have any business
connection in India, it is not necessary to go into the issue whether the
assesse had any Permanent Establishment in India or not during the relevant
period.
However, in the present case, we are not into determination of taxability of
"OEMs" but the taxability of "Qualcomm Incorporated" which is to determined
having regard to section 9(1)(vi)( c). It has  55 nothing to do with the
taxability of "OEMs". The provisions of section 9(1)(i) on which the decision
was rendered by the High Court is totally out of context in the present case.
Further, if a non resident (OEM) is paying royalty to another non resident
(Qualcomm) in respect of any right, property or information used or services
utilized for the purpose of a business carried on by such non resident (OEM)
in India or earning any income from any source in India would not necessarily
give rise to taxable income in the hands of such non resident (OEM) since the
taxability would depend upon other factors also such as whether such non
-resident has PE in India or not and whether there is any exclusion in the
respective treaty etc. Source of income is distinct from the place of accrual
of Income. In the case of Ericsson, the other issue before the Hon'ble Delhi
High court was whether the income from the supply contract can be treated as
'royalty' under section 9(1)(vi) read with Explanation 2 of the Act. But in
the present case the nature of payment is not in dispute. The royalty is paid
by a non resident to another non- resident, which would be taxable under
clause (c) of section 9(1)(vi) and not under clause (b) of S. 9(1)(vi) of the
Act.
Further, he also submitted that in the case of Ericsson, the fact that the
title of the goods passed outside India was not in dispute whereas in the
present case it is under serious dispute. In the case of Ericsson, it was an
admitted position that installation and commissioning of the equipment was
done by two separate corporate entities where as in the present case it is
still in dark who did the installation and commissioning of the equipments.
The mere fact that the agreement does not cast obligation for installation and
commissioning on the OEMs does not throw adequate light as to who else was
competent to install and commission such highly technical equipment
33\. In his rejoinder, Mr.Dastur refuted the aforesaid contentions and  56
submitted as under:
a. Section 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act has two limbs, i.e. it provides that the
royalty paid by a non-resident shall be taxable in India if such royalty is
paid in respect of:
i. "right property or information used for the purposes of a business or
profession carried on by such person in India"; or ii. "right property or
information used for the purposes of making or earning any income from any
source in India"
He pointed that it is undisputed that limb ii. covers cases where royalty is
paid for use of right information or property for the purposes of making or
earning any "income from any source in India". He questioned that if the
phrase "income from any source in India" is very wide and must include income
from a business carried on in India then why then have limb i.? That Limb i.
must necessarily mean something more than merely covering cases where royalty
is paid for use if right property or business carried on in India, or else
limb i. will be rendered otiose.
It was submitted that Limb i. covers cases where the right property or
information has been used by the non-resident payer (OEM) itself and is so
used in a business carried on by OEM's in India. Limb ii. covers a case where
the right property or information has not been used by the non-resident payer
(OEM) itself in the business carried on by it, but the right property or
information has been dealt with in such a manner as would result in earning or
making income from a source in India, for e.g. the non-resident payer does not
use the right property or information but sub-licenses the right property or
information to  57 a person in India for use in India by such person and earns
royalty therefrom.
b. The distinction between limb i. and limb ii., as contented by the Revenue,
is that limb i. covers royalty earned from use of the right or property in
business in India and limb ii. covers royalty earned from use of the right or
property other than from a business in India. If the Revenue's contention is
accepted, it would tantamount to holding that a business carried on in India
would not be a source of income in India. This is ex facie unsustainable.
Clearly a business carried on in India is a source in India and that being so
royalty earned from a business carried on in India would be covered in limb
ii. itself, why then have limb i.? It is submitted that the interpretation as
suggested by the revenue renders limb i. otiose. That any interpretation,
other than as contended the Appellant, will render limb i. redundant. c. To
apply the above interpretation to the facts of the case at hand, the following
position emerges:
Limb i. will apply in the present case since the right property or information
has been used by the OEM itself in their business of manufacturing and is
excluded therefrom since they do not carry on such manufacturing in India.
Limb ii. has no application inasmuch as it is undisputed that the right
property or information has been used by the OEM itself in the case at hand
outside India.
Summing up, he submitted that the case of Qualcomm does not fall within the
provisions of S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act since the right property or
information licensed by Qualcomm to OEM has been used by the  58 OEM itself in
its business of manufacturing which is undisputedly carried on outside India.
d. Regarding the contention of the Department that the OEMs carry on business
in India, Mr. Dastur submitted that the Department's case is that the handset
and equipment although manufactured outside India, are not off the shelf
products or standard products. The entire supply of the products is India
specific. It has been admitted by the Ld. Counsel for the Department during
the course of the hearing that handsets embody two technologies- (a)
technology with respect to the functionality of the handset and (b) technology
with respect to CDMA connectivity.
All the customization such as inclusion of Hindi language in the handset,
default ringtones in the handsets, etc. is customization concerning the
functionality of the handset and has nothing to do with the CDMA connectivity.
In other words a CDMA handset will carry across conversation in Hindi as well
as it carries conversation in English. There is no customization of handset
qua the CDMA connectivity. A handset operational on 800 MHz frequency operates
anywhere in the world where CDMA is operated on 800 MHz. In fact there are 60
other countries in the world where CDMA technology works on 800MHz frequency
band. In support of his contention, he had submitted the list of countries
where CDMA technology operates at 800 MHz. Further he also submitted that the
locking of handsets to a particular network operator is a requirement of the
network operator and does not affect the ability of the handset to operate on
any CDMA telecom network, which is evident from the fact that once the network
lock is broken the handset can operate on  59 any network. Network locks are
requested by network operators since the handsets sold by them to the eventual
subscribers at concessional rates in order to keep the subscribers with them
for an extended period. That a locked handset is capable of working anywhere
in the world is also clear from the fact that all telecom operators permit
international roaming. Though handsets that may have been purchased under
certain terms are locked with a particular network service provider, the
handset is capable of working in any country of the world with which that
particular network service provider has the commercial understanding which
clearly demonstrates that the CDMA connectivity of the phone is in no manner
connected with the locking of the phone with a network service provider. In
support of his argument, Mr. Dastur produced the scheme on international
roaming using CDMA handsets downloaded from the website of Reliance
Communications to demonstrate that the handset can be used in any other
country outside India and submitted that quite rightly, no allegation of the
network equipment being India specific has been made.
e. On the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Syed
Asifuddin and another relied by the Department, Mr. Dastur submitted that that
the judgement is concerned with a lock in scheme floated by Reliance, under
which a handset otherwise costing Rs 10,500 was made available to a subscriber
for at Rs.3,350 but with the obligation that the subscriber continued with
Reliance for a period of 3 years (Para 2, 1st column, Pg.4315 of the judgement
). He further explained that even during this lock-in period, the subscriber
is not barred from exiting the lock-in and exiting Reliance network provided
he pays cost of handset to Reliance.(Para 4, 2nd column, Pg.4316 of the  60
Judgement). At the time Reliance had this lock-in offer, it was also making
available to its subscribers phones without a lock-in at full price. The
judgment was passed in proceedings filed for quashing FIRs where the court was
required to consider whether there was any prima facie case made out by the
police that rewriting the ESN numbers of the phone by certain persons would
amount to a violation of the Copyright Laws and the Information Technology
Laws. Therefore, he submitted that the judgment is of no assistance to the
issue/controversy involved in the present case.
f. On the contention of the Department that the sale of the products is
concluded in India, Mr.Dastur submitted that this fact has been established to
be incorrect on a reading of the very agreements relied upon by the
Department. Having submitted so, Mr. Dastur drew the attention of this Bench
to clause no 14.1 of the agreement between Tata and the OEMs ( ie ZTE and
Motorola) and submitted that the fact that the risk to the equipment shall
pass on provisional acceptance is not relevant for determining where the title
in the equipment passes, which in this case is clearly outside India. In
support of his argument, Mr. Dastur relied on the decision of the Delhi High
Court in the case of Ericsson AB and explained that on identical facts, the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that acceptance test is not a material event for
passing of the title and risk in the equipment supplied.
g. He referred to the relevant provisions of the Sale of Goods Act 1930 and
submitted that the intention of the parties should govern as to when the title
and the risk passed in goods. The time and the place when the title and the
risk in goods pass can be inferred from the terms of the contract , conduct of
the parties  61 and surrounding circumstances as per section 19 (2) of the
sale of goods Act. However, in the present case, there was no necessity for
such an inference as the agreement itself was very specific as to when the
title and the risk where to pass.
h. In the context of Motorola agreement, he drew the attention of this Bench
to relevant definitions from CIP Incoterms 2000 to show that as per the CIP
Incoterms 2000 the delivery from the seller (ie Motorola) to the buyer (i.e.
Tata) concludes at the port of shipment upon delivery to the carrier not to
the buyer. Accordingly, he submitted that in the instant case the title to the
equipment as well as the risk therein passed to Tata at the port of shipment
upon delivery to the carrier. The obligation on Motorola to bear the cost of
delivery up to the port of destination (i.e. India) is irrelevant to decide
where the title passes. In support of his submission, he placed reliance on
the Ericsson ruling (SUPRA) where in the shipment was on CIP terms to agreed
port in India.
i. His alternate submissions was that even assuming whilst denying the title
in the products sold did pass in India, how does that in any manner show that
the OEMs carry on business in India? For royalty earned by Qualcomm to be
taxable in India it must be shown that the non-resident payer has used the
right/property for the purposes of its business "carried on by such person in
India". If at all anything, the passing of title in India can, under the Act,
result in some portion of the sale proceeds accruing in India but that in no
manner establishes that a business is carried on by the OEMs in India. Unless
the revenue demonstrates that the OEMs have continuous operations in India the
mere passing of title in goods imported into India  62 cannot be said to
result to an inference that the OEMs carry on business in India. Reliance was
placed on the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Rhodesia Metals
Limited Vs. CIT, 9 ITR (Suppl) 45 and the jurisdictional High Court in the
case of CIT Vs. Havells India Limited [ITA No.55/2012, ITA 57/2012] he
submitted that the source is the activity that raises the income. In the
present case, the right property or information licensed to OEMs relates to
the manufacture of the products and hence the source of royalty is the
activity of manufacturing. Though cited by the Revenue, Rhodesia entirely
supports the Appellant's case.
j. Alternatively, he also submitted that assuming whilst totally denying, that
the sale is concluded in India, even then since the source of royalty, as
explained above, is manufacturing of handsets/network equipment, and such
manufacturing activity is undisputedly outside India, the source is outside
India. Placing reliance on the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case
of Kusumben. D. Mahdevia vs CIT (47 ITR 214), he submitted that the place of
source of income and the place of accrual of income can be different.
Therefore, the submission of the Revenue is devoid of any merits.
k. On the contentions of the Department that the OEMs have a source in India
since the OEM has licensed software to Indian carriers, he submitted as under:
i. Neither of the agreements entered into by Tata are relevant to decide the
issue with respect to the year under consideration. It would be far-fetched to
presume that Reliance (who was the only Indian company engaged in providing
CDMA mobile services in India in the years under consideration) had entered
into agreements with OEMs  63 containing similar clauses and then proceed to
decide the taxability in the hands of Qualcomm on the basis of such
conjectures and surmises.
ii. OEMs receive no income from such licensing hence to refer to this act of
licensing to say that OEMs have a source of income in India is a contradiction
in terms. In any event sale of the products coupled with the software will not
result in any amount from such sale becoming taxable in India as held by the
jurisdictional High Court in the case of Ericsson at paragraph 61, page 24.
iii. Software is sold along with the chipsets, which is a part of the QCT
Division of the Appellant's business. Income from the QCT business has rightly
not been subjected to tax inasmuch as the software is an integral part of the
chipset and the chipsets are sold outside India and income therefore cannot be
taxed in India. The decision of the jurisdictional High Court in Ericsson's
case has set to naught any controversy, if there was any, in this regard. In
fact, the assessments have been reopened on the basis that Qualcomm exploits
patents and the entire assessment order proceeds on the basis of Qualcomm
earns income on the basis of exploitation of patents. It has never been AO's
case that Qualcomm has earned any royalty from exploitation of any copyright
in software, the CIT(A) proceeds on "wholesome approach theory" & not that
Qualcomm earns from licensing of software, indeed even the CIT(A), despite
enhancement does not bring to tax any amount from the QCT business. This
argument would also be contrary to the decision in Ericsson's case noted
above. iv. Under the 16 license agreements, what is licensed is right to
manufacture "subscriber units" which is defined to  64 mean "Complete CDMA
Telephone". Chipset is only one part of the Complete CDMA phone.
v. The revenue had challenged the submissions of the Appellant that there is
no licensing of software involved to earn royalty under the 16 agreements and
had contended that if the Appellant is disputing this very basic fact then the
matter should be remanded back to the assessing officer to be examined by a
technical expert since it is not possible for the handset and network
equipment to connect with each other without there being some software
involved.
vi. The prayer of the Revenue is based on a misunderstanding of the
Appellant's case. The very basis on which the remand is sought is factually
misplaced, it is not the Appellant's case the there is no software involved in
the working of the CDMA network. All that has been submitted is that there is
no licensing of software under the 16 patent license agreements, which is
evident from the fact that these 16 patent license agreements deal with
licensing of patents and not copyright. It is income under the said 16 patents
license agreements which are the subject matter of assessment and the present
controversy before the Bench. There is software involved and Qualcomm does
develop software; but the software developed is it part of the chipsets
installed in the products, which chipsets are sold to the OEM. The developing
of software and the selling of chipsets is a part of a separate business
carried on by Qualcomm known as the QCT Division. That this is in fact the
position that has been recognized by the AO in page 1, last paragraph of page
2 and first paragraph of page 5 of  65 the assessment order passed for the
years under appeal. As submitted earlier, the income earned by Qualcomm from
its QCT division is not the subject matter of assessment and what has been
brought to tax and is the subject matter of dispute, is only the royalty
earned from the licensing of patents to the OEMs. Hence to ask for a remand
under the guise of determining whether there is any software involved in the
operation of CDMA network is only with the view to enable the revenue to
reinvent its case against the Appellant, which is not permissible.
vii. The request for remand must be considered bearing in mind that more than
12 years have lapsed from the end of the first financial year under
consideration. It must further be borne in mind that even after filing
additional evidence/ documents mentioned above by the Revenue, no reliance has
been placed and no adverse inference has been drawn by the Revenue
authorities, by relying on these agreements in the year to which it relates.
viii. In the circumstances explained above, the decision of the Apex Court in
the case of CIT vs. Bharati Cellular Limited (330 ITR 239) is of no relevance.
It would tantamount to making out a case contrary to the case in the
assessment order.
33\. Arguments on taxability of the royalty income under Article 12 (7)(b) of
the DTAA On the DTAA between India and USA, Mr. Dastur drew our attention to
Article 12 which deals with royalty income and took us through 12 (7)(b) of
the DTAA which is relevant for the issue under this  66 appeal.
34\. He explained that for the royalty income to be taxed in India, it should
relate to the use of or right to use the right or the property in India, the
agreement between Qualcomm and the OEM should either (a) be confined to India
or (b) India should be one of the countries where the right or property must
be specified as being used in India. Neither of the aforementioned conditions
is satisfied in the facts of the instant case. Further, it is an admitted
position that the patents of Qualcomm are used to manufacture the handsets/
equipments outside India. Therefore, the royalty income cannot be regarded to
have deemed to arise / accrue under the DTAA.
35\. Referring to the assessment order, he submitted that except making an
averment, Revenue has not discharged its primary burden as to how the royalty
income is taxable under Article 12 (7)(b) of the DTAA. Referring to the order
of the CIT(A) he submitted that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has reversed the
decision of the Delhi Tribunal in the case of Asia Satellite ( 238 CTR Delhi
233). That the tests applicable are different under the Act and under the
DTAA. For attracting S.9(1)(vi)(C), what is required is utilization of the
license patented by the OEMs in India and were as under Artcile.12(7)(b) there
should be use of or the right to use of the patent in India. He disputed the
finding of the CIT(A) that there is transfer of technology as incorrect. He
submitted that the CIT (A) in his order on wrong premises held that technology
is embedded in this case.
36\. The Ld. Counsel for the revenue Mr.G.C.Srivastava submitted that under
the DTAA with the United States of America , Article 12 para 1 gives the
primary right of taxation to the resident state. However para 2 provided that
such royalties may also be taxed in the source state in which they arise
according to the Laws of that state. Further, Para 7(b) of the Article
provides that where royalties do not arise in one of the contracting states in
terms of Para 7(a) and the  67 royalties relate to the use or the right to use
the right or property in one of the contracting states, the royalties shall be
deemed to arise in that contracting state. On analysis, he submitted that the
following conditions need to be fulfilled for the applicability of Article 12
(7) (b) :-  Royalty do not arise in the contracting state in terms of sub
para
(a) of 7  Royalty relates to the use of the right to use the property in the
contracting state.
37\. He also referred to para 2 of Article 3 of DTAA and submitted that any
term not defined in the DTAA shall have the meaning which it has under the
laws of the contracting state. The treaty does not define the meaning of the
expression 'use' or 'right to use'. It also does not define "computer
software" or "copy right". Hence, in terms of Article 3(2), the meanings of
these terms will have to be derived as per domestic law.
38\. He also submitted that in the facts of the present case, it is not in
dispute that the royalties do not arise in India in terms of Para 7(a). The
only question that requires examination is whether the royalties earned by
Qualcomm relate to the use of the property in India. The stipulation in
Article 12(7)(b) is that for the royalties to arise in India, there must be a
certain degree of relationship between the royalty and the use of property in
India.
39\. The word "use" cannot and does not have a restrictive meaning to only
mean manufacturing of a product. The technology can be used in different ways
depending upon what the technology is about. When OEMs make available the
technology to Reliance and Tata under the license, they use this technology to
provide net work for the wireless communication and to make the net work
operational. The Indian operators are definitely using the technology for
their business. For the purpose of para 7 (b) one has to look to the use of
the property owned  68 by Qualcomm. There is nothing in the DTAA to suggest
that the "use" of property would only mean manufacturing of a product by the
use of such property as suggested by the Appellant. The word "use", not having
been defined even under the domestic law, has to be given its normal
connotation.
40\. For the purposes of para 7(b) one has to look to the use of the property
owned by Qualcomm. To understand the extent of use of CDMA technology in India
one has to look to the entirety of the arrangements by which the technology is
transferred to India which includes the arrangement between Reliance/ Tata and
Qualcomm, Qualcomm and OEMs, OEMs and Reliance/Tata. The MOU entered into
between Reliance and Qualcomm states in the preamble that Reliance and
Qualcomm propose to enter into "an strategic alliance to promote the
utilization of CDMA technology for provision of basic wireless services in
India". Clause 1 of the MOU uses several expressions like "through the use of
CDMA technology" and "utilization and penetration of CDMA technology", "CDMA
technology based wireless technology in India". On page 2 of MOU it is stated
that both parties agree that price competitiveness of CDMA handsets is a
critical requirement to increase the penetration of CDMA technology
telecommunication services in India. Exhibit A to the MOU lists various
services which Qualcomm would render to Reliance for setting up CDMA based
networks in India. Reliance was placed on the technical service agreement
between Qualcomm and Reliance and it was submitted that the agreement was
intended to promote CDMA technology in India and that the net work planning is
done by Qualcomm and training was also given by Qualcomm to various persons in
India for the use of technology. Qualcomm assists in net work deployment and
conducted acceptance test and also supervised site preparations. Clause 9.1
states that in case of large CDMA net work, one of the daunting task is to
integrate the system to net work effectively and efficiently and that Qualcomm
69 has also undertaken the primary responsibility in Clause 14 for the project
implementation. Clause 13 states that Qualcomm has developed this technology
and assumes an important role for implementing this technology for Reliance.
41\. He further submitted that CDMA technology is not about handsets or
equipments. It is a wholesome technology which works on certain defined
scientific principles. Qualcomm may have entered into only service agreement
with Reliance and may have accepted a business model of charging royalty from
the OEMs through the sale of handsets and equipments in India or elsewhere but
the fact remains that it is actively involved in the transfer of CDMA
technology of which it is the exclusive owner (in the world) to the operators
in India.
42\. In view of the above, he submitted that the CDMA technology is a right of
property of Qualcomm and is used in India.
43\. He drew the attention of the Bench to the expression used in the treaty
"in relation" and submitted that it would take within its scope use or right
to use Qualcomm's property given by the OEMs to Reliance/ Tata in India. He
argued that even though full right of commercial exploitation of the property
is given or not, as long as the operators in India use the software provided
by the OEMs under the license, there is use of property in India. It is
needless to repeat that CDMA technology embedded in chipset/ASIC comes to
Indian operators for use in India. The DTAA does not provide the manner in
which the right or the property comes to be used in the contracting state. The
property may come through any medium, whether embedded in hardware or
otherwise. The mode of transfer of technology is of no consequence. What the
treaty contemplates is the use of the property in the contracting state and
not how it has been transferred. Hence, entire argument about copy right and
copyrighted article is really not relevant for the determining the
applicability of para 7(b).
70
44\. The Appellant has referred to decision of High Court of Delhi in Asia
Satellite Telecommunications Co. Ltd [238 ITR 233 (Del)]. The aforesaid
decision is clearly distinguishable on facts. In the said case, the High Court
observed that the telecasting companies have neither any control over the
satellite nor have they access to the same. In the present case, the operators
in India have full access to the CDMA technology and have also control over
it, in the sense that they can use the way it is useful to them. The only
undertaking given is that the use will be for their own business.
45\. In support of his argument that CDMA technology in the form of software
embedded in handsets / equipments is the property of Qualcomm and is being
used in India in terms of DTAA, he placed reliance on the following decisions:
 Millennium IT Software Ltd [ 338 ITR 391, (AAR)];  Citrix System Asia
Pacific Pty. Ltd , In Re [ 342 ITR 1,(AAR)];  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd
[245 CTR 481, (Kar)]
46\. He also relied on the clarificatory amendment contained in Explanation 4
introduced by the Finance Act of 2012 and submitted that the same would also
apply in the context of treaty for the reason that the source state has the
right of taxation under para 2 of Article 12 "according to the laws of that
state". Neither the definition of the royalty contained in Para 3 of Article
12 nor the language employed in Para 7(b) place any bar on the application of
Explanation 4 introduced in the domestic law. This is so for the reason that
the definition of the royalty as contained in Para 3 is similar to the
definition of royalty contained in the domestic law. The treaty has not
defined the expression "use" to give any restrictive meaning to the term. If
domestic laws provide that "use or the right to use" is irrespective of the
medium through which such right is transferred, there is nothing in the treaty
law to suggest that use or right of use as used in Article 12 would not have
the same  71 meaning.
47\. The argument that the agreement with Reliance was reached by LG in 1993
when India was not on the horizon is of little relevance for the reason that
for the application of DTAA, one is not concerned with the
arrangement/agreement between OEM and Reliance but the issue in terms of para
7(b) is whether the royalty paid to Qualcomm is in relation to the use of the
property of Qualcomm in India. The other argument of the appellant that there
is no use of technology in India as Indian operators have been given the right
to use the product and not the intellectual property is a wholly untenable
proposition in the light of the glaring facts stated herein above to
demonstrate that not only the products are being sold to Indian operators but
there is a licensing of software giving them the right to use the technology
and further that there is a transfer of wholesome technology popularly known
as CDMA technology to enable the Indian operators to not only set up the CDMA
wireless network but also to use it for their purpose.
48\. Mr G.C.Srivastava also submitted that there was a transfer of CDMA
technology under the composite agreement by way of a separate MOU. CDMA
technology cannot be broken down into handsets and equipments as there is no
utility of one without the other. The royalty on handsets/equipment is only a
measure of degree of commercial exploitation of wholesome CDMA technology.
More handsets mean more business for the Indian operator, hence, what QCOM is
charging is a return depending on the growth of CDMA technology in India. This
was precisely the reason why Central Government believed that it was necessary
for Qualcomm to reduce its rate of royalty on Indian handsets to make it
affordable and why the Reliance threatened to exit from CDMA technology if
Qualcomm did not agree to reduce its royalty rate.
49\. The license given to Indian operator by OEMs for the use of  72 property
(software) is contemplated to last till the network exists or till the
agreement survives. Nothing else is needed to demonstrate that the royalty is
paid in relation to the use of property in India and also to demonstrate the
fact the OEMs have source of income in India. In view of the above, he
concluded by submitting that it is evident that royalties relate to the use of
right/property owned by Qualcomm by the Indian Operators and it would,
therefore, be deemed to arise in India in terms of para 7(b) of Article 12 of
the DTAA and would be chargeable to tax under para (2) thereof.
50\. In his reply, Mr. Dastur refuted the contentions of the Departmental
Counsel and submitted that, as per the Revenue since, the right or property
"used in India" by Reliance is the "CDMA technology", the royalty earned by
the Appellant albeit from third parties is taxable in India under Article
12(7)(b). Revenue argues that the CDMA technology cannot be broken up into
handsets and network equipment, it must be looked at on a wholesome basis; and
when so looked at it becomes clear that but for the use of the CDMA technology
in India, Qualcomm would not have earned the royalty. He submitted that the
above contention is incorrect for the following reasons:
a. At the outset, Qualcomm is not the exclusive owner of CDMA technology.
Qualcomm merely holds a large number of patents in the field of CDMA
technology. This is evident from the following facts:
i. Qualcomm itself obtains licenses from certain 3rd parties (referred to as
Company 1 and Company 2) as it is evident from the license agreements (page
247 and page 292 of Appellant's paper book).
ii. Chipsets which go into the products can be purchased from Qualcomm or from
third parties such as Via Telecom  73 Nokia, STMicro, TI, DSPC, and EoNex,
this is evident from the agreement itself which specifically deals with
handsets manufactured using third party chipsets, see Paragraph 5.1.1, page
240 of the paper book filed by Qualcomm.
b. As explained earlier the CDMA technology is not exclusively developed by
Qualcomm. CDMA Technology symbolizes a standard that has been developed by a
collaborative group known as 3GPP2.
c. Qualcomm does not earn anything from the user of telephone in India.
Neither Reliance nor Tata nor the eventual subscribers pay any amount to
Qualcomm for user of CDMA telephony in India. Reliance/Tata have not been
granted any license to use or exploit the patents i.e. the intellectual
property (patents) to manufacture the products, as is evident from the
Technical Services Agreement between Qualcomm and Reliance/Tata [Para 6/Pg.152
(with Reliance) and Para4/Pg193 (with Tata)]. Hence to say that the right or
property for which Qualcomm earns royalty is the CDMA technology is not
correct. The phrase "right or property" referred to in the paragraph 7(b)
refers to the right or property belonging to Qualcomm, which are the patents
that it owns and the royalty earned by it, is earned from the licensing of
such patents to OEMs.
d. He also submitted that the right or property is the patents owned by
Qualcomm in the field of CDMA technology. These patents have been licensed to
the OEMs to enable them to manufacture the products. In order to be concerned
under paragraph 7(b) the patents, i.e. the right to manufacture, must be
exploited in India or there must be right to exploit the right to manufacture
in India.
74
e. On the facts of the case at hand and insofar as is relevant, ought to read
thus:
Where under sub-paragraph (a) royalties do not arise in India or United States
of America, and the royalties relate to the use of, or the right to use, the
right to manufacture in India, the royalties shall be deemed to arise in
India; or
(b) Where under sub-paragraph (a) royalties do not arise in India or United
States of America, and the royalties relate to the use of, or the right to
use, the patent, the royalties shall be deemed to arise in India.
f. It is an admitted position that the patents of Qualcomm are used to
manufacture the products and all the manufacturing activities are carried on
outside India.
g. For the royalty to relate to the use of or right to use the right or
property in India the agreement between Qualcomm and the OEM should either (a)
be confined to India or (b) India should be one of the countries where the
right or property must be specified as being. Neither of the aforementioned
conditions are satisfied in the facts of the case at hand and hence the
royalty cannot be regarded to have deemed to arise in India.
51\. In the context of the DTAA , Mr. Srivastava has argued that just as use
of a software product in India amounts to a use of the copyright therein, the
use of the patented products sold by the OEMs to the Indian carriers amounts
to a use of the patents in India. In support thereof reliance was placed on
the decisions of the Authority for the Advance Ruling in the case of
Millennium IT Software Ltd., In Re (338 ITR 391 and Citrix Systems Asia
Pacific Pty. Ltd., In Re (343 ITR 1) as also the decision of the Karnataka
High Court in the case of CIT (Intl Tax) vs. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd (245
CTR 481). Reliance was also  75 placed on the retrospective insertion of
Explanation 4 and it was submitted that that the decision of the Delhi High
Court in the case of Ericsson insofar as it held that there is a difference
between use of a copyright and a copyrighted article is no longer good law.
52\. Insofar as the 3 decisions relied by the Department, Mr. Dastur submitted
that all 3 of them are contrary to the decision of the jurisdictional High
Court in the case of Ericsson and hence of no assistance. In fact the last of
the 3 decisions, namely, the decision of the authority of advance ruling in
the case of Citrix Systems Asia Pacific Pty. Ltd., In Re (343 ITR 1) in
paragraph 41 thereof, after considering its decision in the case Millennium
and that of Karnataka High Court in the case of Samsung, observes the fact
that the Delhi High Court in the case of Ericsson has taken a contrary view.
However the Authority was not inclined to follow the same. Therefore any view
contrary to that held by the Delhi High Court cannot be urged before, far less
accepted by, Tribunal sitting in Delhi. Hence, all the 3 decisions relied upon
by the revenue to demonstrate that a user of software article in India would
amount to user of the copyright in the software and thereby suggest that the
use of the patented products in India amongst the use of patents in India,
must fall.
53\. Regarding the insertion of Explanation 4 is concerned, he submitted that
the Explanation deals with the definition of "royalty" under the Act and the
Delhi High Court in the case of Ericisson A.B at paragraph 60 held that the
definition of royalty under the Act is wider than that under the DTAA and that
the distinction under the Act between use of a copyrighted article and that of
copyright urged by the Revenue, if there be any, has no merit in the context
of the DTAA.
54\. He also submitted that the Explanation is of no relevance in the facts of
the present case inasmuch as the present controversy deals  76 with the
taxability of patents and not with the taxability of computer software.
Further, Explanation 4 is relevant for clause (v) of section 9(1)(vi), the
case of the royalty earned by QCOM is covered by clauses (i) and (iii) of
Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi) and not clause (v) and there is no such
Explanation for use of patents covered under clauses (i) and
(iii). Hence, Explanation 4 has no impact on the facts of the case at hand.
55\. Further he argued that on a more general level, the Revenue has argued
that Qualcomm gives technology to Reliance / Tata to set-up network; CDMA is a
wholesome technology and it cannot be broken into handset and network;
Qualcomm's involvement is extensive; in totality Qualcomm is providing
technology and earning royalty (albeit from third party); royalty is not on
account of sale but its income from deployment of technology by looking at it
on a wholesome basis; hence it is absurd to suggest that income from such
deployment is not a source in India.
56\. On the above contention of the Revenue, he submitted that the argument of
the Revenue is devoid of any merit. At the outset the issue at hand is whether
under the deeming fiction of S. 9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act, the income earned by
the non-resident OEMs as a result of use of is taxable in India. The
involvement of Qualcomm in India to assist Reliance on aspects of effectively
running a CDMA network in India has been remunerated and taxed in India.
Neither has it been alleged nor can it be stated that any portion of royalty
is relatable to such activity (particularly since the agreements with OEMs
have been entered into much before CDMA telephony was used in India).
57\. Secondly, the decision in the case of DIT Vs. Ericsson A.B., (246 CTR
422), where Ericsson AB and its group companies, an OEM, had entered into an
agreement to setup and install a GSM system and in addition Ericsson AB had
agreed to assume overall responsibility to the supply and installation
agreement even so the Delhi High Court on the  77 basis of invoking the so
called holistic principle did not uphold the charge of tax on the supply
component.
58\. After conclusion of the hearing, the Appellant vide letter dt. 19th
September, 2012 brought to the notice of the Bench a judgement of the
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Director of Income Tax vs M/s Nokia
Net Work OY judgement dt. 7.9.2012 and requested the Bench to consider the
same while adjudicating the case as the decision settles the issue in favour
of the assessee on certain issues disputed in the present appeal.
59\. The Bench posted the matter for a hearing on 12th October, 2012 for
submission of the Nokia Ruling. The case was once again heard and both parties
sought time to file written submissions. The Ld. Counsel for the Appellant,
submitted that in addition to the Ericsson ruling, the Appellant wishes to
place reliance on the above decision in support of the following arguments put
forth for taxability of royalty income received by Qualcomm under
S.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act and under Article 12 (7)(b) of the DTAA:
a. Software integral to hardware cannot be treated independent of the hardware
and has to be treated as supply of goods; b. The language of the 'royalty'
definition under the DTAA differs from the amended definition of 'royalty'
under the Act. The distinction between use of a copyrighted article and that
of copyright still holds merit in the context of DTAA; and c. The
determinative factor in a transaction of sale of goods is where the property
of goods passes. If the title of the property manufactured outside India
passes outside India, no part of the sale proceeds would be taxable in India.
60\. In his reply, Mr.G.C.Srivastava disputed the applicability of the Nokia
ruling to the facts of the present case and submitted that the Question raised
before Hon'ble High Court of Delhi as reproduced on Page 12, Para 7 of the
judgment were:
78
 Questions 1 and 2 on whether Nokia has any business connection and / or PE
in India.
 Question no.3 on whether the amount was Taxable as royalty.
61\. The Hon'ble High Court observed on Page 16 (Para 9) that the Liaison
Office cannot be regarded as PE. After coming to this finding once again in
Para 22 (Page 26), the High Court proceeded to discuss the recent amendments
cannot be read into the Treaty. Questions No 1 and 2 were accordingly decided
in favour of the assessee. The Hon'ble High Court proceeded to discuss
Questions No. 3 and 5 on Page 29 (Para 25). After reproducing extracts from
their earlier judgment in the case of Ericsson, the Hon'ble Court observed
that Software had no independent existence leading to the finding that the
payment cannot be regarded as "royalty".
62\. On the other hand, Grounds of Appeal raised by the appellant before the
Hon'ble Tribunal do not dispute the nature and character of payment but the
dispute raised is only with regard to situs of income or situs of accrual of
such income. (Ground No.1, 2, 3, 4, and 5).
63\. The issues before the Hon'ble Bench are entirely different. While in
Nokia or Ericsson, the nature of income being Royalty was in dispute, here
there is no dispute that the income is by way of royalty. In Nokia (or
Ericsson), taxability of OEMs in India was under dispute but in the case of
the Appellant, the taxability of licensors of OEMs is in dispute. The scope of
Sub. Section 9(1)(i) and 9(1)(vi) are entirely different.
64\. Hence a decision which is wholly out of context and hence cannot to be
pressed into service. The taxability of licensor may still arise under
9(1)(vi) even if the licensee (i.e. the OEM) is not found to have PE in India
(and hence not taxable). The taxability under 9(1)(vi) in the case of the
licensor depends on the intellectual property licensed by  79 him being used
for business being carried out in India even if the income of the licensee is
not taxable in India due to non-existence of PE etc.
65\. A look at the grounds of appeal in the case of the Appellant goes to
indicate that Qualcomm is deriving income from license of patented technology,
the use of Copyright (as in the case of Nokia/ Ericsson) is not being even
remotely suggested.
66\. He also drew the attention of this Bench to the Patents Act 1970 , unlike
Copyright Act, the Patents Act 1970 (relevant extracts filed before the
Hon'ble Bench) defines not only "patent" but also "patented article" and
"patented process" to mean respectively an article or process in respect of
which a patent is in force. (sub-clause (o) of section2). A computer
programmer per se is not patentable (clause k) of section 3). The rights of
patentees are explained in section 48 as the right to prevent third parties
from act of making, using, selling, or importing those products or processes
without the consent of the licensor.
67\. Qualcomm's "Chipset" and "ASIC" which contain the core patented
technology are sold to OEMs which get embedded in the handsets and equipments
manufactured by them and, in turn, sold to India. OEMs cannot use these
chipsets and ASIC without the consent of Qualcomm which is given under
agreements with OEMs.
68\. Tata/ Reliance also can use these patented technology or patented
articles without the consent of Qualcomm and OEMs and that is the reason these
find place in the agreement by the use of the expression "licensing of
software". "Software" is defined in the agreement between Tata and OEM to mean
man and machine readable instruction including firmware. Firmware is also
defined to mean a combination of hardware and software. The "Equipment" is
also defined to mean and include CDMA Equipment. Thus, the network operators
in India are given the right to use the patented products and processes of  80
Qualcomm through OEMs.
69\. Referring to the definition of CDMA "ASIC" and "chipset" from the
agreement between Qualcomm and OEM (Page 230 of A's PB) , he submitted that
they all are patented products or processes. Hence, it is highly illogical for
the appellant to rely on cases pertaining to software and draw distinction
between Copyright and Copyrighted article when, according to their assertion,
their case is in the realm of patents which is an altogether genre of
intellectual property. Had it been the case of the use of patent, the Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi could not have reached the same conclusion as it did in
the case of a Nokia.
70\. Coming to ground nos.5 and 6 on the issue of enhancement, the Ld. Sr.
Council submitted that the AO assessed the royalty income only in respect of
handsets. However, the CIT (A) invoked his powers of enhancement under the Act
and brought to tax a new source of income namely the royalty earned from OEMs
on network equipments. Referring to the order of CIT (A), he referred to the
wordings "might have been licenses" "would have been received". He argued that
the CIT (A) can enhance the assessment only in respect of "source" which has
been considered and taxed by the AO. When nothing is assessed by the AO on
equipments, enhancing assessment based on agreements for purchase of
equipment, tantamount to new source of income. He submitted that each
agreement is "new source of income". He relied on following case laws:-
         CIT v. Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry [Vol XLIV/ 892 (SC)]
         CIT v. Rai Bahadur Hardutroy Mohilal Chamaria [66 ITR 443
          (SC)]
         CIT v. Nirbheram Daluram [224 ITR 610 (SC)]
         CIT v. Union Tyres [240 ITR 556 (Del)]
71\. In his reply, Mr. G.C.Srivastava submitted that the subject matter of
assessment is the income by way of royalty received as a  81 consideration for
the use of CDMA technology in India. It is immaterial how such royalty is paid
but the fact is that royalty is paid for the use of such technology. Handsets
and equipments are not two different sources of income. Both form part of same
source of income i.e. use of CDMA technology. Hence, when CIT Appeal gave
direction to tax the royalty from sale of equipment together with that of
handsets, he was not referring to a new source of income but to the same
source of income. Some part of income from that source was taxed by the AO
while the other part of the income relating to the same source was left to be
taxed. Handsets and equipments are not the independent sources of income.
These cannot generate any income de hors the overall technology of which these
are integral parts. The cases relied upon by the appellant are therefore, out
of context and inapplicable to the facts of the present case.
72\. On ground no 9, relating to levy of interest under S. 234(A)of the Act,
Mr. Dastur submitted that the levy of interest is consequential and did not
press for the same.
73\. On ground no 10, relating to levy of interest under S. 234 (B) of the Act
, he submitted that the issue is already settled in the favor of the Appellant
by the decision of the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT vs. Jacabs
Civil Incorporated and Mitsubishi Corpn. And Ors (330 ITR 578). Relying of the
provisions of the Act and the above judgement, he submitted that if the
royalty income is liable to tax under S.9(1)(vi) (c) of the Act, it was the
duty of the OEMs to deduct the tax at source under S.195 of the Act, on the
failure of the OEMs to do so, no interest could be imposed upon the Appellant
under S.234 B of the Act.
74\. He also placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of DIT vs. General Electric Inc [2010] 323 ITR (ST) 46. Where in the
Hon'ble Supreme Court dismissed the Department's special leave petition
against the judgement dated June 22, 2009 of the  82 Bombay High Court in ITA
No 890 of 2009, whereby the High Court following the decision in the case of
DIT (Intl.Tax) vs. NGC Network Asia LLC (313 ITR 187) held that when a duty
was cast on the payer to deduct the tax at source, on the failure of the payer
to do so, no interest could be imposed upon the assessee under S.234 B.
75\. On additional grounds, he submitted that ground no.2 to 4 and 5 to be
treated as not pressed and ground no 1 and 3 which are on the issue of
reopening have already been argued.
Findings:
76\. We have heard rival contentions at length. Both parties have filed
detailed submissions and other material. We have perused all the papers on
record and the orders of the authorities below. The case laws cited are also
considered.
77\. On a careful consideration of the facts and circumstances of this case,
the arguments and the material placed on record, we hold as follows.
78\. Reopening of assessments: We first take up the issue of reopening
Admission of the additional grounds of appeal on reopening of assessment The
five additional grounds raised by the Appellant are legal grounds and do not
require any investigation into facts on record. Further, the Ld.Spl council
for the revenue has also not disputed the admissibility of these additional
grounds. Hence by applying the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of M/s Jute Corporation of India Ltd. vs. CIT, (187 ITR 88 ) and the
Jurisdictional High Court decision in the case of Taylor instrument company
India Limited vs. CIT (105 CTR 5 (Del)), we admit all the additional grounds.
79\. The Appellant's contention, which is common for all the AYs is  83 that,
the AO reopened the assessments merely on surmises and conjectures and that
there was no material available to enable the AO to form a belief that the
income of the Appellant has escaped assessment. The Revenue contends that
there was prima facie some material on the basis of which the AO has formed a
belief that the income of the Appellant has escaped assessment.
80\. Before we proceed, we extract S.147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 for ready
reference.
"Section147. Income escaping assessment.-If the Assessing Officer, has reason
to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any
assessment year, he may, subject to the provisions of sections 148 to 153,
assess or reassess such income and also any other income chargeable to tax
which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice subsequently in the
course of the proceedings under this section, or recompute the loss or the
depreciation allowance or any other allowance, as the case may be, for the
assessment year concerned (hereafter in this section and in sections 148 to
153 referred to as the relevant assessment year) :
Provided that where an assessment under sub-section (3) of section 143 or this
section has been made for the relevant assessment year, no action shall be
taken under this section after the expiry of four years from the end of the
relevant assessment year, unless any income chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment for such assessment year by reason of the failure on the part of
the assessee to make a return under section 139 or in response to a notice
issued under sub-section (1) of section 142 or section 148 or to disclose
fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that
assessment year. Explanation 1.-Production before the Assessing Officer of
account books or other evidence from which material evidence could, with due
diligence, have been discovered by the Assessing Officer will not necessarily
amount to disclosure within the meaning of the foregoing proviso.
84
Explanation 2.-For the purposes of this section, the following shall also be
deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment,
namely :-
(a) where no return of income has been furnished by the assessee although his
total income or the total income of any other person in respect of which he is
assessable under this Act during the previous year exceeded the maximum amount
which is not chargeable to income-tax ;
(b) where a return of income has been furnished by the assessee but no
assessment has been made and it is noticed by the Assessing Officer that the
assessee has understated the income or has claimed excessive loss, deduction,
allowance or relief in the return ;
> (c) where an assessment has been made, but-
> (i) income chargeable to tax has been under-assessed ; or
> (ii) such income has been assessed at too low a rate ; or
> (iii) such income has been made the subject of excessive relief under this
> Act ; or
> (iv) excessive loss or depreciation allowance or any other allowance under
> this Act has been computed."
81\. This is a case where the Appellant did not file any return of income for
any of the impugned Assessment Years. The Ld.Sr.Counsel for the Appellant
contended that since tax was deducted at source for A Y s 2002-03 and 2003-04,
the presumption is that there is no escapement of income. We do not agree with
this contention. No such presumption can be there. No precedent had been cited
before us in support of the said contention. The fact remains that for the AYs
2002- 03 and 2003-04 there was income from FTS derived by the Appellant which
was subject to tax at source and that no return of income was filed.
82\. We now consider a condition that the AO should have some  85 prima facie
material which could lead to formation of a belief that the Appellant had
income which has escaped assessment for the impugned AYs. At this stage we
deem it appropriate to extract reasons recorded by the AO for ready reference.
83\. Reasons for issuance of notice u/s 148 of Income Tax Act, 1961 "The
assessee is a company incorporated in USA and is in the business of
developing, manufacturing, marketing, licensing and operating advanced
communication systems and products world wide.
The assessee company is owner of the patented CDMA technology. CDMA systems
are utilized in India by various telecom operators viz., Reliance, Tata
Indicom etc. Apart from the said patent, the company is into filing and
securing patents of a number of technological advancements in
telecommunication sector. These patents are then utilized for the purpose of
earning royalties world wide including India. The technological patenting
profile of the company can be ascertained from the following press release of
the assessee:-
Press Release Qualcomm Incorporated www.qualcomm.com 5775 Morehouse Drive San
Diego, CA 92121-1714 (858) 587-1121 United States Patent Office Reaffirms the
Validity of Important Qualcomm CDMA Patent March 23, 1999 - SAN DIEGO -- March
23, 1999 -- Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) today announced that the
validity of one of its key Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) patents has
been reaffirmed. Qualcomm has received notice that the United States Patent
86 and Trademark Office will issue a Reexamination Certificate confirming the
patentability of all 49 claims of U.S.
Patent 5, 103,459 with minor amendments and allowing 19 additional claims. The
patent, which was issued in April 1992, had been the subject of two requests
for reexamination filed by anonymous requestors in 1996 and 1997. The requests
for reexamination alleged that prior publications not originally considered by
the Patent Office rendered the patent invalid. In total, more than 80
additional references were submitted to the Patent Office during the
reexamination proceedings by the requestors and Qualcomm. The Patent Office,
after carefully reviewing all the additional prior art, concluded that the
patent was valid and that Qualcomm was also entitled to 19 new claims.
The 459 Patent, entitled "System and Method for Generating Signal Waveforms in
a CDMA Cellular Telephone System," describes inventions for generating the
basic CDMA waveforms used in CDMA wireless systems such as IS-95 and others.
The same basic waveforms are also utilized in CDMA systems proposed for third-
generation standards. The inventions of the 459 Patent enable multiple callers
in a CDMA wireless telecommunications network to efficiently use the same
frequency band without mutual interference, allowing for greater system
capacity and better link performance.
Qualcomm's pioneering efforts in the development of CDMA cellular technology
have yielded more than 200 issued U.S. patents relating to CDMA and hundreds
of issued and pending CDMA patent applications around the world. While no
single patent is critical to Qualcomm's coverage of second or third generation
CDMA wireless standards because Qualcomm holds dozens of patents that are
essential to the leading standards, the 459 Patent covers fundamental
techniques for achieving high capacity in such CDMA systems. More than 60
major manufacturers of telecommunications equipment have taken royalty-
bearing licenses under Qualcomm's patent portfolio.
87
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering
innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on the
Company's CDMA digital technology. The Company's major business areas include
CDMA phones; integrated CDMA chipsets and system software; wireless
infrastructure; technology licensing; and satellite-based systems including
OmniTRACS and portions of the Globalstar system. Qualcomm is headquartered in
San Diego, Calif. Qualcomm's fiscal 1998 revenues exceeded U.S. $3 billion.
For more information, please visit the Company's web site at
http://www.qualcomm.com.
Except for the historical information contained herein, this news release
contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties, including timely product development, the Company's ability to
successfully manufacture significant quantities of CDMA or other equipment on
a timely and profitable basis, and those related to performance guarantees,
change in economic conditions of the various markets the company serves, as
well as the other risks detailed from time to time in the company's SEC
reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 27,
1998, and most recent Form 10- Q.
Qualcomm and OmniTRACS are registered trade marks of Qualcomm Incorporated.
Globalstar is a trade mark of Loral Qualcomm Satellite Services, Incorporated.
The assessee is having full fledged 'research and development centres' in
India. Many of the technological developments are undertaken at these
development centres located in India. These products are patented by the
assessee, and are exploited commercially worldwide including in India. These
facts can be ascertained from the following news clippings:- New Delhi, June
28 Qualcomm Inc has told the Union Communications and IT Minister, Mr
Dayanidhi Maran, that the company would enable setting up of Code  88 Division
Multiple Access (CDMA) handset manufacturing unit in the country. The company
also said that it was working towards enabling cheaper CDMA handsets apart
from leveraging its research and development centres in India for Qualcomm's
global requirement by Increasing the headcount.
After a closed-door meeting with Mr. Maran, Qualcomm's Chief Executive
Officer, Dr Paul Jacobs, said, "We had a discussion on manufacturing. I cannot
disclose details, as we now have to go back to do a lot of work before that
happens. We are actually going to get more manufacturers to the market."
Dr Jacobs said that Qualcomm would come in with design, the latest chipset,
and hardware with engineering resources to enable local manufacturing. While
the company does not manufacture handsets directly, It gives licenses to
companies such as LG and Samsung to produce CDMA handsets, During the meeting,
Mr Maran is understood to have told Qualcomm to remove all bottlenecks
hindering the growth of CDMA services in the country. The Communications
Ministry had earlier indicated that high royalty charges being paid to
Qualcomm were coming in the way of cheaper handsets. Dr Jacobs said that there
was a meeting of minds with Mr. Maran over the issue. "More than affecting a
reduction in the royalty charges, we would look to bringing down the cost of
handsets through technological innovations."
Meeting with Anil Ambani:
India's leading CDMA player Reliance Communications has also demanded a cut in
royalty payments to Qualcomm. Reliance has even proposed to shift to the rival
GSM technology. Mr. Jacobs is expected to meet Mr .Anil Ambani on Thursday in
Mumbai.
(Source: Hindu Business Line) Thus it is seen that the assessee company, which
is undisputedly into the Business of earning royalties from patenting the
technological  89 innovations in the field of communication technology, is
undertaking its core business of research and development from the centers
located in India. Therefore these locations in India constitute the business
connection as well as permanent establishment of the assessee in India. It is
also observed that the assessee company is directly negotiating with the
customers of CDMA technologies like Reliance for the price of royalties to be
embedded in the cost of cell phone. Cellphones compatible to the use of CDMA
technology are manufactured by the companies like LG, Samsung, Nokia etc., but
cost of royalties is to be determined and negotiated directly by the telecom
operators, who purchase such handsets in bulk for distribution among their
customers. The royalties to be charged by the assessee in respect of handsets,
differs from country to country. For example the assessee charges at the rate
of 2% in china while it charges at the rate of 7% in respect of handsets sold
to Indian telecom operators. This is further evident from the newspaper
reports on the dispute between Reliance and the assessee regarding the cost of
royalties embedded in the handset price. Some of the reports are extracted
below:-
Royalty issue: Qualcomm CEO likely to visit India Tata Teleservices not
considering GSM roll-out for now New Delhi, June 15 Under pressure from the
industry and the Communication Ministry to lower its royalty, rates, the US
based CDMA technology promoter firm Qualcomm's world wide CEO, Mr.Paul Jacob,
is likely to visit India next week.
Mr.Jacob is expected to meet the Communication and IT Minister, Mr.Dayanidhi
Maran, and CDMA operators as well. The move comes after India's largest CDMA
payer Reliance Communication announced its plans to roll out GSM based
cellular services in the country. The agency responsible for Qualcomm India's
press relations said that Qualcomm Inc had not made any announcement in this
regard yet. Mr.  90 Kanwalinder Singh, president Qualcomm India, could not be
contacted as he is away at the company's global headquarters in San Diego.
However, industry sources said Mr .Jacob's visit has been scheduled for next
week.
(Source: Hindu Business Line) Reliance had earlier requested Qualcomm to bring
down its royalty from the current levels of 7 per cent, as it was adding to
the cost of services. Sources pointed out that in China, Qualcomm was charging
a royalty of only 2 per cent. Mr.Maran is also understood to have observed
recently that CDMA operators were at a disadvantage due to their royalty
obligations, which made it difficult to bring down the prices of handsets.
Qualcomm stand :
However, Qualcomm has maintained that the royalty was being charged from Hand
set manufacturers and not toe operators and, therefore, the additional cost
was only marginal.
Industry observers also pointed that while equipment majors and hand set
manufacturers are setting up base in India to manufacture GSM gear, no CDMA
player has announced manufacturing plans. Meanwhile, the other CDMA operators
in India - Tata Teleservices said that it was not considering rolling out GSM
services. Tatas said that it was closely watching Reliance's application to
offer GSM services in the country.
Qualcomm, Reliance meet ends in stalemate Our Bureau Another meet likely on
Tuesday Mumbai, July 29 A marathon eight-hour meeting on Thursday between the
Qualcomm delegation headed by its CEO, Mr. Paul Jacobs, and Reliance
Communications in Mumbai ended in a stalemate, according to sources. .
"In fact postures hardened on both sides," said one of them.
91
The issue of disagreement between the two is the royalty charged by Qualcomm
on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) handsets, which Reliance
Communications wants decreased.
In fact to show that it meant business, the telephony operator had, in a
surprise move recently, applied for spectrum for the rival GSM technology in
the prime circles of Mumbai and Delhi, saying that it was merely doing this to
offer its customers the best choice available. Sources said that neither party
made any headway during Thursday's discussions. However, the Qualcomm CEO and
Mr. Anil Ambani, who heads Reliance Communications were scheduled to meet over
dinner again on Tuesday, possibly to continue the discussions. Qualcomm, while
being unrelenting on royalty charges, appeared to show some willingness to
offer some concessions, which would be a variable of the volumes that Reliance
can generate, said sources. They said that Qualcomm said it might agree to
negotiate with equipment manufacturers and look at lowering the cost element
of handset prices based on volumes.
Reliance Communications was also equally unrelenting in its stance, said
sources. Its bargaining confidence probably comes from the fact that it is the
largest mobile telephony service operator in India, the fastest growing
telephony market in the world, said analysts. They added that the relative
silence of the other CDMA operator Tata Teleservices on the royalty issue
could strengthen Qualcomm's case in a small way.
(Source: Hindu Business Line) From the observations made above, it is seen
that the assessee company is Earning royalties in respect of handsets
operational in India. These handsets. Though are got manufactured by the
Indian Telecom Operators from LG, samsung etc. but the price of the royalty
component for use of CDMA technology are directly negotiated and finalized by
the  92 assessee and the Indian Telecom Operators in India. Only the payments
of royalties are routed through the manufacturer on the basis of price rate
agreed between the assessee and the Indian telephone operators. Therefore, it
can safely be held that the royalties to the assessee not only arise in India
but also paid by Indian concerns indirectly."
84\. On perusal of the reasons, the material available with the Assessing
Officer at the time of recording the reasons is as follows:- i. Press release
dt. 23rd March 1999 issued by the Appellant in USA, which states that the
Appellant got several patents pertaining to CDMA technology.
ii. Newspaper article dt. 28th June, 2006 stating that the Appellant has
research and development centre located in India.
iii)Newspaper article dt. 15th June,2006 and 29th July,2006 showing that the
Chief Executive Officer of Qualccom Dr.Paul Jacob visited India and had
interacted with the Government of India as well as Reliance Communications
Ltd. and the issue of bringing down the cost of handsets through reduction in
rate of royalties was a topic of discussion.
iv. Material to show that the Appellant earned fees from 'included services'
from Reliance Communications Infrastructure Ltd. for utilization of products
in India.
85\. Thus the short question before us is whether the AO could have reason to
believe, on the basis of the aforesaid material that the Appellant had income
which escaped from tax for the impugned AYs
86\. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd. vs.
ITO and others, (236 ITR 434) laid down that what has to be seen, is whether
there was prima facie material on the basis of which  93 the department could
reopen the case. The sufficiency of correctness of the material is not a thing
to be considered at this stage.
87\. In the case of ACIT vs. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers P.Ltd.( 291 ITR
500), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows:- "16. Section 147 authorizes
and permits the Assessing Officer to assess or reassess income chargeable to
tax if he has reason to believe that income for any assessment year has
escaped assessment. The word "reason" in the phrase "reason to believe" would
mean cause or justification. If the Assessing Officer has cause or
justification to know or suppose that income had escaped assessment, it can be
said to have reason to believe that an income had escaped assessment. The
expression cannot be read to mean that the Assessing Officer should have
finally ascertained the fact by legal evidence or conclusion. The function of
the Assessing Officer is to administer the statute with solicitude for the
public exchequer with an inbuilt idea of fairness to taxpayers. As observed by
the Supreme Court in Central Provinces Manganese Ore Co. Ltd. v. ITO [1991]
191 ITR 662, for initiation of action under section 147(a) (as the provision
stood at the relevant time) fulfillment of the two requisite conditions in
that regard is essential. At that stage, the final outcome of the proceeding
is not relevant. In other words, at the initiation stage, what is required is
"reason to believe", but not the established fact of escapement of income. At
the stage of issue of notice, the only question is whether there was relevant
material on which a reasonable person could have formed a requisite belief.
Whether the materials would conclusively prove the escapement is not the
concern at that stage. This is so because the formation of belief by the
Assessing Officer is within the realm of subjective satisfaction (see ITO v.
Selected Dalurband Coal Co. P. Ltd. [1996] 217 ITR 597 (SC) ; Raymond Woollen
Mills Ltd. v. ITO [1999] 236 ITR 34 (SC). The scope and effect of section 147
as substituted with effect from April  94 1, 1989, as also sections 148 to 152
are substantially different from the provisions as they stood prior to such
substitution. Under the old provisions of section 147, separate clauses (a)
and (b) laid down the circumstances under which income escaping assessment for
the past assessment years could be assessed or reassessed. To confer
jurisdiction under section 147(a) two conditions were required to be satisfied
: firstly the Assessing Officer must have reason to believe that income,
profits or gains chargeable to income tax have escaped assessment, and
secondly he must also have reason to believe that such escapement has occurred
by reason of either omission or failure on the part of the assessee to
disclose fully or truly all material facts necessary for his assessment of
that year. Both these conditions were conditions precedent to be satisfied
before the Assessing Officer could have jurisdiction to issue notice under
section 148 read with section 147(a). But under the substituted section 147
existence of only the first condition suffices. In other words if the
Assessing Officer for whatever reason has reason to believe that income has
escaped assessment it confers jurisdiction to reopen the assessment. It is,
however, to be noted that both the conditions must be fulfilled if the case
falls within the ambit of the proviso to section 147. The case at hand is
covered by the main provision and not the proviso.
So long as the ingredients of section 147 are fulfilled, the Assessing Officer
is free to initiate proceeding under section 147 and failure to take steps
under section 143(3) will not render the Assessing Officer powerless to
initiate reassessment proceedings even when intimation under section 143(1)
had been issued."(Emphasis ours)
88\. As laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the test that has to be
applied is whether there is information (and not evidence) and whether based
on such information, the AO prima facie has a justification for having a
reason to believe that income of the assessee has escaped assessment. In our
opinion in the facts and  95 circumstances of this case, the AO had a bonafide
belief that the income chargeable to tax escaped assessment based on material,
which in our opinion, reasonably supports such belief. The opinion formed, to
a mind, is one which a rational man would have come to such conclusion on this
material. We hold so because the information is that Qualcomm is a world
leader in holding patents relating to CDMA technology and that Reliance and
Tata Telecommunications are introducing CDMA technology into India and the
information that negotiations have taken place between the Government and the
Representative of Qualcomm on the subject and that discussions were held by
the assessee with Reliance on the issue of royalty charged on handsets, would
lead any reasonable person to a conclusion that Qualcomm might have earned
income in India and that such income would have escaped assessment. The
satisfaction in question is the subjective satisfaction of the AO at that
point of time. It cannot be said that there is no nexus between the material
and the belief of escapement of income. It also cannot be said that the
material in possession of the AO does not enable him to draw an inference that
income has escaped assessment. There is a rational connection, direct nexus
and live link between the material and the belief. The reason is based on
material which prima facie showed that income has escaped assessment. At that
stage, the final outcome of the proceeding is not relevant and the fact of
escapement of income need not be established. Whether the materials would
conclusively prove the escapement is not the concern at that stage.
89\. It is well settled that the Court cannot examine the sufficiency of the
reason to believe. Factually it cannot be said that the material in question
is vague, indefinite, distant, remote or farfetched as claimed by the Ld Sr.
Council. It also cannot be said that the assumption of jurisdiction is
arbitrary or malafide nor can it be said that there is non- application of
mind. The material definitely indicates that the assessee  96 has a role and
was involved in promoting and launching of CDMA Technology in India. Where
such involvement ultimately results in the assessee being assessed to tax is
another issue.
90\. With this background, we consider each of the contentions of the Ld.Sr.
Counsel for the Appellant as well as the case laws cited by them.
91\. The first contention of Mr. Dastur was that news paper articles can not
constitute information/evidence as contemplated under the Act. Reliance was
placed on the decision in the case of M/s Namit Verma vs. UOI (supra) and
Sikkim Subba Associates vs. UOI and others (supra). In the case of M/s Namit
Verma vs. UOI (supra) the Hon'ble Delhi High Court was considering a Public
Interest Litigation (PIL) wherein the intervention of the Court was sought to
redress the grievance resulting from alleged inaction of the government. The
petitioner placed reliance on some news paper reports. The Hon'ble High Court
dismissed the petition and in this context, the Delhi High Court observed that
on the basis of material placed before the Court, an inference cannot be drawn
that the government authorities are not acting according to law. The Hon'ble
Court held that news paper reports do not constitute evidence. This
proposition cannot be interpreted to mean that news paper reports do not
constitute information or material. In our considered view, news paper reports
can constitute information/material, which can form the basis for the AO to
form a reason to believe that income liable to tax has escaped assessment. It
is not the case of the assessee that the newspaper reports are false or
inaccurate.
92\. Coming to the decision in the case of Sikkim Subba Associates vs. UOI and
others (supra) the Hon'ble High Court of Sikkim found fault with the
initiation of search under Section 132 of the Act on the basis of CAG report
obtained even before it was laid before the house  97 and on the basis of
certain magazine reports, which were subsequently found to be fake and
fabricated magazine. This decision was rendered by the Hon'ble High Court on
the peculiar set of facts and in the context of initiation of search under
Section 132 of the Income Tax Act, 1961\. In our considered view, this
decision is not applicable to the facts of the case. In this case the assessee
does not allege that the reports are false or fabricated. News paper reports
are relevant material and it is open to the assessee to challenge the veracity
of the reports. News papers give information and this can be relevant
material. On obtaining copy of the reasons the assessee can always state his
objections. Hence we do not agree with this argument.
93\. The second contention of the Appellant is that the proceedings under
Section 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 cannot be based on mere conjectures
and surmises. Reliance was placed in the case of German Remedies (supra); A
Raman & Co. (supra); Lakhmani Mewaldas (supra). While there is no dispute with
regard to the legal proposition laid out in the judgments relied by the
Appellant, we have to examine whether the AO acted upon conjectures or
surmises and whether the reasons recorded by him are only pretence. These are
questions of fact, which we would be once again specifically dealing
hereinafter.
94\. In the case of Sarthak Securities P.Ltd. (supra) the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court found that the reasons recorded were contrary to the law laid down by
the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Lovely Exports P.Ltd.( 216 CTR (SC) 195)
while quashing the notice issued under Section 148 of the Income Tax Act,
1961. No such situation prevails in this case.
95\. The Appellant contended that there is no nexus between the material
available before the AO and the belief formed by him. It was pointed out that
news paper articles were published in 2006, and hence cannot be regarded as
material having live link/close nexus with years  98 which ended between
March, 2000 and 31st March,2004. It was contended that there was reason to
suspect but there was no reason to believe and the reasons must relate to the
year in which the notice was issued. It was pointed out that nothing in the
reasons recorded show that any income was earned by the Appellant during the
F.Y. ended 31st March, 2000 to 31st March, 2004. Reliance was placed on the
following decisions:-
       i.       Kelvinator of India Ltd. (supra)
       ii.      Lakhmani Mewal Das (supra)
       iii.     Ganga Saran and Sons P.Ltd. (supra)
       iv.      Grindlays Bank Ltd. (supra)
       v.       Mesco Labs Ltd. (supra)
Reliance was also placed on the CBDT Circular no.549 dt. 31st October, 1989\.
96\. A perusal of the reasons and the material demonstrate that the Appellant
is the owner of patents pertaining to CDMA technology and that the Appellant
earns royalty from such patents and that CDMA mobile services/technology has
been launched and used in India. This information and material, in our
considered opinion is sufficient, prima facie, to come to a conclusion that
the Appellant has earned certain income in India. The information by way of
press releases, news paper articles etc. could lead any reasonable person to
believe at that the Appellant who owns several patents pertaining to CDMA
technology would have income, as such, technology is used in India. In our
opinion the AO had an honest belief, and has come to a conclusion, as a
rational man would, based on the material that income chargeable to tax has
escaped assessment. The satisfaction in question is that of the AO at that
point of time. It cannot be said that the AO had no cause or justification to
suppose that income has escaped assessment. The phrase 'reason to believe'
cannot be read to mean that the AO should have finally ascertained the fact by
legal evidence or conclusion.
99
Whether the material would conclusively prove the escapement of income is not
the concern at this stage.
97\. The argument that the material relied upon by the AO has to be specific
to a particular year is neither supported by any provision of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 nor by any case laws. News paper article published in 2006, can be a
basis for formation of belief that income chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment during the years prior to such publication when the CDMA mobile
services were available in India. The notice under Section 148 was issued on
29.3.2007 and information on all the impugned AYs were available as on that
date of recording the reasons.
98\. The AO reopened assessments from the Assessment Year 2000- 01 to 2006-07
in respect of income earned for the period from 1.4.99 to 31.3.2006 and the
income that was sought to be taxed in these reopened assessments was the
income accruing to the appellant from the patents registered in its favour in
respect of CDMA technology. The nature of income sought to be taxed was
royalties and fees for 'included services'.
99\. The AO based on the material formed a prima facie belief that the
Appellant is earning royalty income or fees from 'included services' which is
taxable in India under S.9 of the Act as well as the DTAA. To put it the other
way, there is no prohibition under the Act in taxing these incomes in India.
Whether on consideration of all the facts and the provisions of law, it can be
concluded that these incomes can be brought to tax in India, is altogether the
different question and the AO cannot be compelled to prejudge the issue while
reopening the assessments.
100\. At the time of recording the reasons for reopening, based on the
material i.e. press releases, news paper articles etc., the AO believed  100
that the Appellant is holding certain patents developed under CDMA technology
and that the technology is being used in various parts of the world including
India and that certain Indian companies are providing CDMA wireless net work
services and for this purpose the Indian companies are paying to the Appellant
company royalty as part of the price of the hand set purchased from the OEMs
outside India. The news paper reports definitely indicate that the Appellant
was negotiating with the OEMs for the benefit of Indian operators and users of
CDMA technology. These facts indicate that in recording his belief the AO has
acted in a bonafide manner and that he was in possession of relevant material
to enable him to form a prima facie belief that the Appellant was having
income taxable in India for the impugned Assessment Years.
101\. Further, the Appellant has not chosen to file a return of income in
India though it had taxable income at least for two A.Ys.
102\. Coming to the contention of the Ld.Sr.Counsel that when there are
multiple reasons, some relevant and others irrelevant or incorrect then the
reopening must be quashed since it is unclear as to which reason the AO has
relied upon and his reliance in the case of Sagar Enterprises vs. ACIT we hold
as follows:-
103\. In the case of Sagar Enterprises vs. ACIT, 257 ITR 335 (supra) the facts
are as under:-
> "i) vide reasons recorded on 18th August, 1997 the case of the assessee
> partnership firm was reopened for the A.y.1991-92.
> ii) In the reasons recorded, the assessing officer placed heavy reliance on
> the fact that the partnership firm did not file the Return of income for the
> A.Y.1991-92, while the high court found that the return of income was
> actually filed on 28th August, 1991 itself.
> iii) The undisclosed income sought to be assessed for A.Y.1991- 92 was
> already assessed in the A.Y.1992-93 on a protective basis.
> iv) When the addition made in the protective assessment was  101 deleted by
> the CIT(A) vide his order dt.26th January, 1996, the assessing officer
> sought to reopen the assessment for A.Y.1991- 92 to make the very same
> addition on a substantive basis.
> On these facts, the Hon'ble High Court held as under:
> " From the facts that have come on record, protective assessment for asst.
> yr. 1992-93 was carried in appeal by the assessee and on the assessee
> succeeding before the CIT(A), the Revenue has filed second appeal before the
> Tribunal which is stated to be pending. It is pertinent to note that the
> first appellate authority decided the appeal for asst. yr. 1992-93 on 26th
> Jan., 1996 (sic) and the reasons have been recorded thereafter on 18th Aug.,
> 1997\.
> Therefore, taking into consideration the totality of the circumstances and
> the facts which have come on record, it is apparent that the respondent
> himself is not sure as to the year of taxability and whether the said item
> requires to be taxed in. asst. yr. 1991-92 or asst. yr. 1992-93. In such a
> situation, it is not possible to agree with the stand of the Revenue that
> any income could be stated to have escaped the assessment for asst. yr.
> 1991-92 as a consequence of any failure or omission on the part of the
> assessee.
> The petition is therefore allowed. The impugned notice dt. 3rd Oct., 1997
> (Annexure R) is quashed and set aside. Rule is made absolute with no order
> as to costs."
104\. We find that the facts in the above case are completely different from
the facts of case before us. In the case of the appellant, the assessing
officer sought to tax income accruing to the appellant from the patents in
respect of CDMA technology owned by the appellant. The assessing officer
considered that the income from the patents would be in the form of Royalties,
Fees from included services or business profits. But there is no error in his
finding that the appellant has income from the patents. Therefore, we do not
find force in the  102 contention of the appellant that the reasons recorded
are not clear or irrelevant and therefore we are unable to quash the reopening
of the assessments on this score.
105\. In this regard, we draw strength from the case of Inductotherm (India)
Private Limited (Formerly Inductotherm India) Vs. M.Gopalan, DCIT in Special
Civil Application NO.858 of 2006 as the facts are much nearer to the facts in
the case of the appellant. In this case, the assessing officer reopened the
assessment for four reasons. The Hon'ble Gujarat High court was of the view
that reopening could not have been done in respect of two reasons. However,
they upheld the validity of notice issued u/s 148 as they found that the
reopening in respect of the other two reasons was validly done. The findings
of the Hon'ble Gujarat high court are as under:
> "18. Reverting to the facts of the present case, we notice that in two out
> of four reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer for reopening the
> assessment, he stated that he need to verify the claims. In the second
> ground, he had recorded that admissibility of the bad debts written off
> required to be verified. In the fourth ground also, he had recorded that
> admissibility of royalty claim was required to be verified. We are in
> agreement with the contention of the counsel for the petitioner that for
> mere verification of the claim, power for reopening of assessment could not
> be exercised. The Assessing Officer in guise of power to reopen an
> assessment, cannot seek to undertake a fishing or roving inquiry and seek to
> verify the claims as if it were a scrutiny assessment.
> 19\. With respect to other two grounds, however, we find that the Assessing
> Officer had some material at his command to form a belief that income
> chargeable to tax had escaped assessment. Ground NO.1 pertained to the claim
> of deduction under section 80HHC of the Act and the Assessing Officer was of
> the opinion  103 that the Central as well as the State Sales Tax and other
> income in the net profit would not qualify for deduction under section 80HHC
> of the Act. It may be that he referred to the decisions of the Apex Court in
> the case of Sterling Foods Ltd., however, mere wrong reference to a judgment
> would not invalidate the ground if otherwise was valid in law. Equally, in
> the third ground, the Assessing Officer noted that the assessee had debited
> warranty expenses of Rs.l,43,48,347/- to the P & L Account, out of which an
> amount of Rs.l,05,48,633/- was incurred during the financial year under
> consideration. He was, therefore, of the opinion that remaining amount of
> Rs.37,99,714j- is not allowable expenditure. We are of the opinion that such
> reason also would permit the Assessing Officer to reopen the assessment. The
> Assessing Officer has found that a claim not arising during the year under
> consideration was made. He desires to disallow such a claim. It cannot be
> stated that the ground was not germane. The counsel for the petitioner,
> however, vehemently contended that the petitioner's claim in this respect
> has been accepted by this Court. He drew our attention to an order dated
> 27.12.2011 passed in Tax Appeal NO.2087 of 2010, wherein this Court had
> rejected the revenue's appeal in which one of the issues was with respect to
> such warranty expenditure. Counsel for the revenue, however, pointed out
> that the Department has not accepted this decision of the High Court.
> 20\. In view of the above discussion, we do not find that the notice for
> reopening is invalid or lacks jurisdiction. The petition is, accordingly,
> dismissed. Rule is discharged. Interim relief granted earlier stands
> vacated."
106\. We also draw strength from the judgment of the Hon'ble Calcutta High
Court in the case of CIT vs. Anand & Co.( 191 ITR 82) wherein it is held as
follows:- "If the Assessing Officer, initially proceeded to reopen the
assessment for several items of income believed to have escaped assessment and
if it is ultimately found that only one such item has escaped assessment, that
will not vitiate the proceedings. All the reasons given by the Assessing
Officer for reopening the assessment might not be tenable, but even if one of
the grounds is such that it would lead prima facie to a reasonable belief that
the income escaped assessment, the jurisdiction of the ITO to initiate
proceedings cannot be successfully questioned".
104
107\. The next contention of the Ld.Sr.Counsel is that the AO stated that the
Appellant is having a P.E./Business Connection in India and whereas in the
assessment order royalty income was taxed on gross basis under Article
12(vii)(b) of the DTAA and not under Article 12(7)(a) of the DTAA and since
the foundation of the reassessment was something and the actual reassessment
was something else, the proceedings have to be quashed. Reliance was placed on
the decision in the case of CIT vs. Jet Airways India Ltd. (supra) and Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (supra). We have perused both these decisions. In the case
of CIT vs. Jet Airways India Ltd. 331 ITR 236 (Bom.) (supra) at para 21 and 22
it is held as follows:-
> "20. Parliament, when it enacted the Expln. (3) to s. 147 by the Finance
> (No. 2) Act, 2009 clearly had before it both the lines of precedent on the
> subject. The precedent dealt with two separate questions. When it effected
> the amendment by bringing in Expln. 3 to s. 147, Parliament stepped in to
> correct what it regarded as an interpretational error in the view which was
> taken by certain Courts that the AO has to restrict the assessment or
> reassessment proceedings only to the issues in respect of which reasons were
> recorded for reopening the assessment. The corrective exercise embarked upon
> by "Parliament in the form of Expln. 3 consequently provides that the AO may
> assess or reassess the income in respect of any issue which comes to his
> notice subsequently in the course of the proceedings though the reasons for
> such issue were not included in the notice under Section 148(2). The
> decisions of the Kerala High Court in Travancore Cements Ltd. (2008) 305 ITR
> 170 and of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Vipan Khanna (2002) 255 ITR
> 220 would, therefore, no longer hold the field. However, in so far as the
> second line of authority is concerned, which is reflected in the judgement
> of the Rajasthan High Court in Shri Ram Singh (2008) 306 ITR 343,
> Explanation 3 as inserted by Parliament would not take away the basis of
> that decision. The view which was taken by the Rajasthan High Court was also
> taken in another judgement of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in CIT vs.
> Atlas Cycle Industries (1989) 180 ITR 319. The decision in Atlas Cycle
> Industries (1989) 180 ITR 319 held that the Assessing Officer did not have
> jurisdiction to proceed with the reassessment, once he found that the two
> grounds mentioned in the notice under Section 148 were incorrect or
> nonexistent. The decisions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Atlas
> Cycle  105 Industries (1989) 180 ITR 319 and of the Rajasthan High Court in
> Shri Ram Singh (2008) 306 ITR 343 would not be affected by the amendment
> brought in by the insertion of Explanation 3 to section
> 147\. Explanation 3 lifts the embargo, which was inserted by judicial
> interpretation, on the making of an assessment of reassessment on grounds
> other than those on the basis of which a notice was issued under Section
> 148. Setting out the reasons, for the belief that income had escaped
> assessment. Those judicial decisions had held that when the assessment was
> sought to be reopened on the ground that income had escaped assessment on a
> certain issue, the Assessing Officer could not make an assessment or
> reassessment on another issue which came to his notice during the
> proceedings. This interpretation will no longer hold the field after the
> insertion of Explanation 3 by the Finance (No.2) Act of 2009\. However,
> Explanation 3 does not and cannot over ride the necessity of fulfilling the
> conditions set out in the substantive part of section 147. An Explanation to
> a statutory provision is intended to explain its contents and cannot be
> construed to override it or render the substance and core nugatory. S.147
> has this effect that the Assessing Officer has to assess or reassess the
> income ("such income") which escaped assessment and which was the basis of
> the formation of belief and if he does so, he can also assess or reassess
> any other income which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice
> during the course of the proceedings. However, if after issuing a notice
> under Section 148, he accepted the contention of the assessee and holds that
> the income which he has initially formed a reason to believe had escaped
> assessment, has as a matter of fact not escaped assessment, it is not open
> to him independently to assess some other income. If he intends to do so, a
> fresh notice under Section 148 would be necessary, the legality of which
> would be tested in the event of a challenge by the assessee." (emphasis
> ours)
108\. Applying the above ratio, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Ranbaxy India (supra) allowed the Appellant's appeal. In this case reopening
was made for making the addition towards club fees, gifts and presents and in
the final assessment the AO reworked deduction under Section 80HHC and 80 I
only. In our opinion both these cases are not applicable to the case on hand.
As already stated  106 the assessment was reopened to assess the royalty
income accruing to assessee in India, in respect of patents relating to CDMA
technology. The income assessed in the reassessment proceedings was also the
same. Thus we reject the contentions of the Ld.Counsel for the Appellant.
109\. The Ld.Counsel for the Appellant contended that the first CDMA mobile
services were launched by Reliance Infocomm on 15.1.2003 and therefore for the
Assessment Year 2000-2001 and 2001-02 the notice issued under Section 148 is
invalid. As already stated, the income sought to be taxed by the AO is the
income of the Appellant from the patents with regard to CDMA technology owned
by it. From the press release dt. 23rd March, 1999, the AO got information
that the Appellant has several patents registered in its favour with regard to
CDMA technology. On the foundation of this and on the basis of series of
developments the information which was gathered from news paper reports and
other sources, the AO had a reason to believe that the Appellant had income
taxable in India in respect of these patents. Once the AO had formed a prima
facie belief on relevant material, any facts which subsequently surface, in
the course of assessment proceedings, which contradict the basis on which
belief was formed, cannot vitiate the reassessment proceedings.
110\. The next contention of the Ld.Sr.Counsel is that for the A.Y 2000-2001
reasons for reopening are furnished after the expiry of six years from the end
of the Assessment Year and hence the reassessment proceedings are barred by
limitation. The provisions of the Act permit reopening of assessment within a
period of six years from the end of the A.Y. Thus the AO can record reasons
and issue a notice under S.148 on or before 31st march, 2007. In the case
before us, notice under S.148 of the Act was issued on 29th March, 2007. It is
not stipulated under the Act that the AO has to furnish reasons for reopening
along with the  107 notice under S.148 of the Act. In the case of DKN Drive
Shafts India Ltd. 259 ITR 19 (SC), the Hon'ble Apex Court held that, the
proper course of action when a notice is issued under S.148 is that, the
assessee is required to file the return of income and if he desires can seek a
copy of the reasons recorded and then the AO has to furnish the same within a
reasonable period. Thus the duty of the AO to furnish the reasons is triggered
only on the assessee filing the return of income in response to a notice under
S.148 of the Act. If we accept the argument of the Ld.Sr.Counsel, then this
would defeat the provisions of the Act. We draw strength from the decision of
the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of AG Holdings P.Ltd. vs ITO (2012)
72 DTR (Delhi)
346\. Hence this argument is not accepted.
111\. The next contention of the Ld.Sr.Counsel with specific reference to
2000-2001 and 2001-2002 is that the notice under Section 148 was issued
without the sanction of the appropriate authority. The pith and substance of
the arguments of the Ld.Sr.Counsel is that notice under Sec.148 should be
issued only after the JCIT is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the AO that
it is a fit case for the issue of such notice. The case of the assessee is
that sanction for issue of notice under Section 148 was given by the Addl.DIT
whereas the sanction ought to have been given only by the JCIT as mandated by
the provisions of S.151 of the Act. Since the notice was issued without
sanction of the appropriate authority, the Ld.Sr.Counsel argued that the same
is liable to be quashed as void ab initio. Reliance was placed in the case of
ITO vs. Mrs.Navin Khanna. In the case of Mrs.Navin Khanna approval was given
by higher authority i.e. the CIT, whereas, the JCIT was the designated
authority. The case on hand Ms.Sumedha Verma Ojha gave sanction for issue of
notice under Section 148. She was authorized to exercise the power of an
Addl.CIT. Under Section 2(28 C) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 a JCIT means a
Jt.Commissioner or an Additional Commissioner of Income Tax. Thus the sanction
in this case  108 is by an appropriate authority. One cannot go by the
nomenclature or rank of the Officer but what has to be seen is whether the
Officer is having current jurisdiction conferred by the Board.
112\. We draw strength from the decision of the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in
the case of CIT vs. Narendra Narayan Panicker 320 ITR, 436 (Gau) where it has
been held as follows:-
"The CIT is an authority who is entrusted with the duty and responsibility to
ensure the smooth conduct of work in his commissionerate. The head of the
commissionerate is empowered and competent to make an officiating arrangement
by vesting certain powers in an officer in addition to the normal powers to be
exercised by such an officer in times of necessity and public policy.
The CIT initiated suo motu proceedings under Section 263 of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 in respect of the assessee's assessments. During the pendency of the
proceedings, the assessee preferred appeals against the assessment orders
passed by the Assessing Officer which were closed as having become
infructuous. On appeals preferred by the assessees against the orders passed
by the CIT under Section 263 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as well as the
appeals filed against the orders holding the assessment orders as infructuous,
the Tribunal held that under Section 158 BC of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the
assessments in block cases were to be finalized by an officer not below the
rank of an ACIT and the initial orders of assessments under appeals having
been passed by the incumbent while holding the post of an ITO were null and
void. On appeals:
Held, allowing the appeals, that the CIT had made the officiating arrangement
in 1999 by vesting the powers of the ACIT in the Assessing Officer. The AO was
regularly promoted to the post of the ACIT in 2001 and had exercised the
powers of the ACIT for over a period of two years. Therefore, the Assessing
Officer was competent in law to make the initial block assessments and the
orders of the Tribunal overlooking the materials available on record were not
sustainable. (The matters were remanded to the Tribunal for fresh disposal)."
Hence we are unable to accept this argument of the Ld.Counsel for the
Appellant.
113\. Yet another contention of the Ld.Sr.Counsel was that the sanction was
issued by the Additional Director of Income Tax is mechanical without proper
application of mind.
109
Reliance was placed on the following judgements:-
a) Chugmal Rajpal vs SP Chaliah (Supra)
b) Central India Electrical Supply Company Ltd. vs. ITO (Supra)
c) CIT vs. Mesco Laboratories Ltd.(Supra).
114\. On a perusal of these case laws, we find that in the case of Chugmal
Rajpal (supra) the AO did not mention in the report seeking sanction the
material available before him on the basis of which he had reason to believe
that income has escaped assessment. He further specifically mentioned therein
that reassessment proceedings were initiated to conduct further investigation.
On these facts, it was held that the authorized Officer could not have given
sanction for issue of notice under Section 148 on the basis of such incomplete
and insufficient reasons.
115\. In the case of the Central India Electric Supply Company Ltd. vs. ITO,
333 ITR 237 (supra) the facts as noticed by the Hon'ble High Court was as
under:-
"The assessee company was engaged in the generation and supply of electricity
from its units at Bilaspur and Katni. These units were acquired by the
Government of Madhya Pradesh in the year 1964 when the appellant's license
expired and not renewed. The compensation for compulsory acquisition of both
units was fixed at Rs.5,85,000/- and paid to the assessee in the year 1964
itself. The assessee filed its return on October 7, 1965, claiming a loss of
Rs.50,572/- and thereafter revised return on December 16, 1867 declaring a
loss of Rs.1,07,183 on account of retrenchment. The assessment was completed
at the behest of the assessee at a total loss of Rs.56,611/-on January 13,
1969, for the Assessment Year 1965-66 which was not allowed to be carried
forward due to closure of business. It is not disputed that the assessee
company also delivered possession to the M.P. Electricity Board in the year
1964 itself.
The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held allowing the appeal, (i) that reasons are
the link between the material placed on record and the conclusion reached by
an authority in respect of an issue, since they help in discerning the manner
in which the conclusion is reached by the concerned authority. It was a case
where literally a mere stamp was affixed and was signed by an Under Secretary
underneath a stamped "yes" against the column which queried as to whether  110
the approval of the Board had been taken. Rubber stamping of underlying
material suggested that the decision was taken in a mechanical manner. Thus, a
proper application of mind had not taken place."
116\. In the case on hand, the Addl.DIT's findings are typed and the signature
is made below this. Just because the findings of the Addl.DIT are typed, it
cannot be concluded that these are not the thought process of the Addl.DIT.
Hence these case laws are not applicable to the facts of the case.
117\. Coming to the decision in the case of Mesco Labs (supra), we find that
the assessment for the A.Y. 1995-96 was reopened for the reasons that the
assessee moved the Settlement Commission for the A.Y.s 1989-90 to 1994-95. The
reopening was quashed for the reason that there was no nexus between the
reasons recorded and the belief formed in as much as there was no such
application before the Settlement Commission for the Assessment Year 1995-96.
No such facts exist in this case. In our opinion, we do not find any material,
to agree with the submissions of the Ld. Sr.Counsel that the sanction in this
case has been accorded by the Additional Director of Income tax without
application of mind.
118\. In view of the detailed reasons cited above, we uphold the reopening of
assessments for all the AYs under appeal. Accordingly, the notice issued under
S.148 of the Act is held to be valid. Enhancement of income by the C.I.T(A):-
119\. On the issue of the enhancement of income, we are unable to agree with
the contention of Mr. Dastur that the CIT (A) cannot enhance the income on the
facts and circumstances of this case. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Jute Corporation (187 ITR 688 at page 693) and in CIT vs. Kanpur Syndicate (53
ITR 225 at page 229) held that the power of the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner is coterminous with that of the Income -tax Officer. The first
appellate  111 authority can do what the AO can do and also direct him to do
what he has failed to do.
120\. In the case on hand, the enhancement is emanating from the same source
that is royalty income from licensing of CDMA patents for manufacture of CDMA
products. Hence, in our view handsets and equipments cannot be treated as two
different sources of income.
121\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Gurinder Mohan Singh
Nindrajog vs. CIT (348 ITR 0170) after considering the judgements of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT v. Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry, CIT v. Rai Bahadur
Hardutroy Mohilal Chamaria, CIT v. Nirbheram Daluram [224 (Supra) and the full
bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the case CIT vs Sardari lal & Co
(251 ITR 864 (FB)), CIT v. Union Tyres (Supra) held as under:
> "22. We do not agree with this submission. Obviously, when this matter/item
> is considered but addition on that account is not made in the assessment
> order, it would clearly follow that the Assessing Officer had "determined"
> the same in the course of assessment by deciding not to make any addition.
> 23\. In the case of Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry v. CIT [1958] 34 ITR 342
> (Bom.) (which has been affirmed by the Supreme Court), the Bombay High Court
> clarified that "source" of income would not mean source in the sense of head
> of income as used in the Income-Tax Act but would mean a specific source
> from which a particular income spank or arose. It was clarified that:-
> ".......If a particular source or item of income had been considered by the
> Income-tax Officer and had been subjected to the process of assessment, then
> even though the assessee may not have appealed against that particular
> source or item, one once the appeal was before the Appellate Assistant
> Commissioner his power extended not merely to the subject-matter of the
> appeal, but to the whole subject-
112
matter of assessment. What gave the power to the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner was the fact that a particular item or source had been subjected
to the process of assessment. Now, the process of assessment would include,
not only the subjecting of an item or source to tax, but equally holding that
the particular source or item was not subjected to tax."
We are of the opinion that the aforesaid item or source had been subjected to
the process of assessment. Merely because the ultimate order passed by the
Assessing Officer is silent about this item and there is no discussion
thereupon would not mean that the Assessing officer had not considered the
same. It is trite law that the Assessing Officer is not supposed to frame the
assessment order like a judgment of the Court and would discuss each and every
item and aspects specifically. It is clear from the record that import and
impact of every document seized including page No. 21 was considered by the
Assessing Officer; he went into the matter by issuing a questionnaire; calling
upon the assessee to give reply and reply/clarification was received from the
assessee. It is thereafter only that addition on the basis of page No. 21 was
not made in respect of the properties in question.
24\. We thus answer question No. 2 in favour of the Revenue and against the
assessee holding that on the facts of this case, the CIT (A) rightly exercised
his powers under Section 251(1) of the Act."
122\. In the present case, the fact that the Appellant also earns royalty
income from network equipment was before the AO. This fact was also discussed
by the AO in her assessment order. The AO enquired into the matter by issuing
a questionnaire, calling upon the Appellant to give reply/information with
respect to the royalty income from network equipment. Thereafter, the AO
concluded the assessment by taxing only the royalty income from handsets.
123\. The AO while taxing the royalty income earned by the Appellant  113
under the provisions of the Act held as under:
"In this case, we are concerned only with the royalty payable by the OEMs to
Qualcomm based on the net work equipment/hand sets sold by them to parties in
India. It is not our case to tax the royalty arising out of the global
contract between OEMs and Qualcomm but only so much of the royalty which
pertains to sales made in India. The source of income of the OEMs is sales
made to parties in India based on which royalties are paid to Qualcomm. Thus
in terms of S.9(1)(vi)(c ) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 royalties payable to
Qualcomm are deemed to accrue and arise in India."
124\. A reading of the assessment order clearly brings out the fact that this
source was always part of the assessment proceedings .However while
quantifying the royalty income, the AO did not bring the royalty income
arising from network equipment to tax. Hence the same would not constitute a
new source of income and therefore the income can be enhanced by the CIT(A)
u/s.251 of the Act.
125\. Even assuming for a moment that the argument of Mr. Dastur that each
agreement would constitute a new source of income and therefore, the royalty
earned from OEMs on network equipments would tantamount to new source is
accepted. It is pertinent to note that for the AYs under appeal, there is no
separate network equipment license agreement entered by Qualcomm with the
OEMs. All the 16 license agreements filed by the Appellant relates to either
subscriber units (ie handsets) or Subscriber units and infrastructure network
equipment. Hence, in our view, the enhancement of royalty income from network
equipment by the CIT(A) emanates from the same source but from a different
product manufactured under the same license agreement. Therefore, this
contention is rejected.
126\. In view of the above discussions, we hold that the CIT(A) has rightly
exercised his jurisdiction under section 251 to enhance income  114 of the
Appellant.
127\. On Merits :- We now proceed to dispose of the merits:
Whether the 'royalty' income earned by Qualcomm from OEMs is taxable under
S.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Income Tax Act 1961:
The issue in question is whether the said "royalty" is taxable under
Sec.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act. For ready reference S.9(1)(vi) of the Act is
extracted below.
S.9(1)(vi):
"(vi) income by way of royalty payable by -
(a) The Government; or
(b) a person who is a resident except where the royalty is payable in respect
of any right, property or Information used or services utilised or the
purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person outside India
or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source outside
India; or
(c) a person who is a non-resident where the royalty is payable in respect of
any right, property or Information used or services utilised or the purposes
of a business or profession carried on by such person inside India or for the
purposes of making or earning any income from any source inside India;"
128\. Section 9(1)(vi)(c) is a deeming provision and has to be construed
strictly. A plain reading of this section shows that any income by way of
royalty is taxable in India, if such royalty is payable by a non-resident in
respect of any right, property or information used or services utilized
(a) for the purposes of business, or Profession carried on by such person
inside India or
(b) for the purpose of making or earning any income from any source inside
India.
115
129\. When an assessee claims that it is covered by exceptions to clause (b)
to sub clause (vi) to S.9(1), the burden lies on the tax payer to prove that
it falls within those exemption provisions. In comparison, when it is claimed
by revenue that the income falls under Clause (c) to Sub Clause (vi) of S.9(1)
the burden is on the Revenue to prove the same.
130\. Thus to tax the royalty income earned by Qualcomm from OEM's located
outside India, under the deeming provision of S. 9(1)(vi) (c) of the Act, the
burden is on the Revenue to prove that the OEMs carry on business in India and
that they have used Qualcomm's patents for the purposes of, such business in
India; or that they have used Qualcomm's patents for the purpose of, making or
earning income from a source in India. Thus we agree with the arguments of the
Ld.Counsel for the Appellant that the burden of proof when it falls within the
exceptions to S. 9(1)(vi)(b) is on the assessee and on the contrary the burden
is on the Revenue when they chose to invoke S.9(1)(vi)(c). This proposition
was also accepted by the Revenue.
131\. The Ld. Special Counsel for the revenue, submitted that the language
employed in S.9(1)(vi) (c ) is "used for the purpose of" in
contradistinguished from "utilized in the business" used in S.9(1)(vii)(
c). Relying on the language employed in both the sections, he submitted that
the situs of the use intellectual property is not material. It may be used
anywhere (in or outside India). He submitted that what is material is the
purpose of the use of the property, whether it is used for the purpose of
business carried on in India or for the purpose of earning income from a
source in India, then S.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act is attracted.
132\. In our view what is important is not whether right to property is used
"in" or "for the purpose of" a business, but to determine whether such
business is "carried on by such person in India".
116
133\. The other issue is whether the Indian carriers constitute a source of
income for the OEMs in India and whether licensing the patented intellectual
property to the OEMs, has resulted in making available the patented IP's to
the Indian telecom operators for commercially exploiting the CDMA technology
in India. In our view neither the AO nor the CIT(A)'s have demonstrated, that
for the years under appeal, the OEMs have used Qualcomm's right/ information/
property (ie patents) for the purpose of carrying on business in India or the
for the purpose of making or earning income from a source in India.
134\. The ld A.O. as well as the Ld. C.I.T.(A) have based there findings only
on the 16 licensing agreements between OEM's and the assessee. The Ld. Spl.
Counsel. Mr. G.C. Srivastava for the first time before this tribunal filed the
following agreements as additional evidence to substantiate the case of
Revenue to tax that the royalty income earned by Qualcomm under S. 9(1)(vi)
(c) of the Act:- i. Equipment purchase agreement between the Tata Tele
Services and Motorola Inc. dt. 8.12.2007;
ii. Equipment purchased agreement between the Tata Tele Services and ZTE
Corporation dt. 19.2.2007.
135\. We agree with Mr. Dastur, that cognizance cannot be taken of these
agreements as they relate to the F.Y.2006-07, FY 2007-08 relevant to AY
2007-08 and AY 2008-09 and have no relevance to the case on hand. The ld Spl
council sought to make out a new case with the aid of these additional
agreements.
136\. Nevertheless we consider Mr. G.C. Srivastava submission that these
agreements of Tata Tele Services can be relied upon for the limited purpose of
understanding the business model of the OEMs in relation to sale of CDMA
products to India. The plea that similar agreements would have been entered
into by the India Telecom operators with the OEMs for purchase of network
equipment, cannot be  117 accepted as it would be a conjecture and surmise.
137\. The AO as well as the CIT(A)'s order are based on 16 license agreements
entered into by Qualcomm with OEMs. Redacted copies of the license agreement
were filed before us. The Appellant during the course of the hearing filed an
affidavit disclosing the names of the OEMs along with the dates of execution
of the license agreements. Admittedly these agreements were entered into on
13th August, 1993 and certain other dates. Majority of the agreements were
executed prior to year 2000 ie. before CDMA services were launched in India.
We are basically concerned with these agreements only. For ready reference we
extract relevant clauses from the following agreements.
i. Subscriber Unit License agreement by and between Qualcomm and the OEM;
ii. Subscriber Unit and Infrastructure Equipment License Agreement between
QUALCOMM and the OEM;
We also extract the clauses relied upon by the revenue in the fallowing
agreements to consider the without prejudice arguments of the assessee.
iii. Equipment purchase agreement between the Tata Tele Services and Motorola
Inc. dt. 8.12.2007;
iv. Equipment purchased agreement between the Tata Tele Services and ZTE
Corporation dt. 19.2.2007.
138\. In addition, certain clauses from the following two agreements are also
extracted as reliance was placed on the same. i. MOU dt. 26.03.2001 by and
between Reliance and Qualcomm (Revenue paper book dt.29.06.2012) ii. Technical
services agreement between Qualcomm and Reliance dt.16.10.2001.
118
Subscriber Unit License Agreement between Qualcomm and the OEMs for
manufacture of CDMA handsets [Agreement reference page no 226 to Page no 263
of the Appellant's paper book] Extract of relevant clauses from the Agreement
in relation to grant of license.
Clause 5.1 Grant of license "Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, including but not limited to timely payment of the royalties set
forth herein, QUALCOMM hereby grants to LICENSEE a personal, nontransferable,
worldwide and non-exclusive license under QUALCOMM's Intellectual Property
solely for Wireless Applications to (a) make (and have made), import, use and
sell, lease or otherwise dispose of Subscriber Units, and (b) to make (and
have made) Components (provided such Components have been exclusively designed
by LICENSEE and which design is owned and used exclusively by LICENSEE) and
import, use and sell, lease and otherwise dispose of Components but only if
such Components are included as part of and within Subscriber Units Sold by
LICENSEE (or as replacement parts for Subscriber Units previously sold by
LICENSEE). No other, further or different license is hereby granted or
implied.
QUALCOMM's Intellectual Property (page no 236 of the paper book) "QUALCOMM's
Intellectual Property" means QUALCOMM's Technically Necessary IPR and
QUALCOMM's Included Commercially Necessary IPR and Company 3 Patents; provided
that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "QUALCOMM's Intellectual
Property" shall not include any intellectual property, including but not
limited to patents, owned by SnapTrack,Inc.
119
Subscriber Unit (Page no 238 of the paperbook): "Subscriber Unit" means a
Complete CDMA Telephone, a Cordless Base Station and/or a CDMA Subscriber
Knockdown Kit and "Subscriber Units" means a complete CDMA Telephones, a
Cordless Base Stations and CDMA Subscriber Knockdown Kits.
Components (Page no 233 of the paper book):
"Components" means application specific integrated circuits ("ASIC's"),
electronic devices, integrated circuits, including firmware thereon and
accompanying software, and/ or families of devices for use in wireless
subscriber equipment.
CDMA ASIC (Page no 231):
"CDMA ASIC" means QUALCOMM's mobile station modem (MSM) CDMA application
specific integrated circuit, and any revision, generation, modifications or
integration to or of the MSM, purchased by LICENSEE from QUALCOMM.
ii) Subscriber Unit and Infrastructure Equipment License Agreement between
QUALCOMM and Licensee (i.e. OEM).[ [Agreement reference - Page no 264 to Page
no 316 of the Appellant's paper book] Extract of relevant clauses from the
Agreement in relation to grant of license Clause 4.1 - Grant of license from
QUALCOMM (Page no 279): " Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, including but not limited to timely payment of the license fees and
royalties set forth herein, on the Effective Date, "QUALCOMM hereby grants to
Licensee, solely for Wireless Applications, a personal, non transferable,
worldwide and nonexclusive license (without the right to sublicense) (1) under
120 QUALCOMM's Applicable Subscriber Patents to (a) make (and have made),
import, use, sell, offer to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of Subscriber
Units and Radiomodules and (b) to make (and have made) Components and import,
use, sell, offer to sell, lease and otherwise dispose of Components but only
if such Components are included as part of and Sold within Licensee Subscriber
Units or Licensee Radiomodules (or as replacement parts for Subscriber Units
or Radiomodules previously Sold by Licensee) and (2) under QUALCOMM's
Applicable Infrastructure Patents to (a) make (and have made), import, use,
sell, offer to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of Infrastructure Equipment
and (b) to make (and have made) Components and import, use, sell, offer to
sell, lease and otherwise dispose of Components but only if such Components
are included as part of and Sold within Licensee Infrastructure Equipment (or
as replacement parts for Infrastructure Equipment previously Sold by
Licensee). No other, further or different license is hereby granted or
implied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee, may exercise its "have made"
rights above with respect to Components not designed by or for Licensee
(according to specifications provided by Licensee) only to the extent that the
third party benefiting from such "have made" rights does not Assert, through
itself or its affiliated entities, patent infringement litigation against
QUALCOMM or Licensee and QUALCOMM agrees that it will not charge royalties to
any third party with respect to the sale by such third party of Components to
Licensee to the extent that such third party is making such sale under
Licensee "have made" rights and is not using or otherwise infringing upon any
of QUALCOMM's patents not the subject of such "have made" rights."
QUALCOMM's Applicable Subscriber Patents (Page no 275): "QUALCOMM's Applicable
Subscriber Patents" means QUALCOMM's Early Patents and, only if Licensee
elects under Section 4.4.6, either  121 QUALCOMM's Later Patents or QUALCOMM's
Other Patents, as the case may be.
Subscriber Unit (Page no 278):
"Subscriber Unit" means a complete CDMA and/or Multi-Mode CDMA user terminal,
including but not limited to mobile, transportable, and portable telephones,
which can be used, without any additional equipment or components being
attached thereto, to transmit and/or receive transmissions for Wireless
Applications.
Radiomodule (Page no 277):
"Radiomodule" means an electronics subassembly for Wireless Applications which
(i) includes, at a minimum, a printed circuit board, multiple individually
packaged integrated circuits mounted on the printed circuit board, a CDMA
Component, and any embedded software, and (ii) provides RF/analog and digital
and baseband processing necessary to implement the functions of a CDMA
Subscriber Unit such as to initiate and/or receive Wireless telecommunications
transmissions; provided that a Radiomodule shall not be capable of initiating
and/or receiving Wireless telecommunication transmissions without being
incorporated into or attached to the product of which it is intended to be a
subassembly.
Components (Page no 271):
"Components" means application specific integrated circuits (ASIC's),
electronic devices, multi-chip modules, integrated circuits and/or families of
devices, including firmware thereon and software associated therewith, for use
in Wireless Applications.
QUALCOMM's Applicable Infrastructure Patents (Page no 275): "QUALCOMM's
Applicable Infrastructure Patents" means (i) every  122 patent issued or to be
issued to QUALCOMM in any country of the world which claims priority from a
patent application filed anywhere in the world on or prior to the Effective
Date and (ii) every patent issued or to be issued to QUALCOMM in any country
of the world which (a) claims priority from a patent application filed
anywhere in the world during the life of the applicable CDMA Wireless standard
and (b) are technically necessary to use, make and/or sell Infrastructure
Equipment compliant with such standard.
Infrastructure Equipment (Page no 272):
"Infrastructure Equipment" means network equipment for use as a part of any
land mobile radio-telephone system for Wireless Applications, including but
not limited to BTSs, BSCs and System Switches (and equipment and software for
incorporation therein), but the term does not include, by way of example and
not by way of limitation, Components, Subscriber Units, Radiomodules or any
other subscriber equipment.
2\. Agreement between Tata Teleservices Limited and ZTE Corporation for supply
of CDMA Equipment [reference - Agreement 2 filed by the Revenue as additional
evidence] Extract of relevant clauses from the agreement on transfer of title
and risk of the equipment Clause 14.1 - Title and risk of loss (Page no 33):
"Without prejudice to TTSL's right to reject as set forth in Article 6.4 of
this Agreement, the title of all Equipment sold hereunder shall pass from the
Supplier to TTSL in high seas before arrival In India and the risk of loss to
the Hardware portion of all Equipment shall pass from Supplier to TTSL upon
Provisional Acceptance."
123
3\. Agreement between Tata Teleservices Limited and Motorola Inc for supply of
equipment [ Agreement 1 filed by the Revenue] Extract of relevant clauses from
the agreement in relation to transfer of title and risk of the equipment
Clause 14.1 - Title and risk of loss (Page no 14):
"Without prejudice to TTSL's right to reject as set forth in Article 6.4 of
this Agreement, the title and the risk of loss to the Hardware portion of all
Equipment sold hereunder shall pass from Supplier to TTSL upon Delivery in
accordance with CIP Incoterms 2000 port of shipment."
139\. Based on the above, we now proceed to answer the first question as to
whether the OEMs have carried on the business in India and that they have used
the Appellant's patents for the purpose of carrying on such business in India.
140\. What is licensed in these 16 agreements is the use of 'intellectual
property" owned and patented by QUALCOMM for the purpose of manufacture of
subscriber units and infrastructure equipment. These agreements were entered
much before CDMA technology was introduced in India. A perusal of these
agreements does not demonstrate that these are India specific. In fact they
are not specific to any particular country. The OEM's manufactured products
outside India and sold them to not only service providers in India but also to
number of others in other countries. The license to manufacture products by
using the patented Intellectual Property of the assessee has not been used in
India as the products are manufactured outside  124 India and when such
products are sold to parties in India it cannot be said that OEM's have done
business in India.
141\. The Revenue heavily relied on the equipment purchase agreement entered
by Tata with Motorola and ZTE to prove that the OEMs carry on business in
India and that they have used the Qualcomm patents for the purpose of carrying
on such business in India. His contention that the OEMs carry on business in
India is mainly based on the following:
a. The word "business" defined under the Act is of wide import and encompasses
a host of activities. He contended that if manufacturing is done in one
jurisdiction and sale in the other, it cannot be said that business is done in
one and not in the other jurisdiction.
b. OEMs carry out installation of equipment in India for the Indian Telecom
operators;
c. The entire supply of handsets and equipments though manufactured outside
India are India specific and not off the shelf products which can be sold to
anyone in any location. The technology is used by the OEMs to manufacture
India specific supplies. Hence there is a certain degree of use of the
property for the purpose of carrying on business in India;
d. Placing reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble AP High Court in the case
of Syed Asiffudin and others (Supra), he submitted that the handsets are
specifically designed and programmed for Reliance.
e. Relying on various clauses in the equipment purchase agreement entered by
Tata with ZTE and Motorola, he contended that despite the declaration in
clause 14.1 to the agreements, the agreement has to be read as a whole to
ascertain the intent of the parties. He submitted that if the agreement is
read as a whole, the intent of the parties is amply clear that the title of
the  125 equipment passes in India at the site where the deliveries are made
or in a worst scenario at the airport/ seaports in India.
142\. We are unable to agree with the contention of the Ld. Spl. Counsel for
the following reasons:
a. Accepting such a proposition would lead to a situation where every purchase
and sale of goods made by any party in India with any party in other countries
would be considered as if those parties are doing business in India. A sale to
India without any operations being carried out in India would amount to
business with India and not business in India. For the business to be carried
out in India there should be some activity carried out in India. Thus the
argument that if manufacturing is done in one jurisdiction and sales in the
other jurisdiction, then there is business in another jurisdiction is devoid
of merit. Further on the facts of the case, for the reasons given later in
this order, even the sale cannot be said to have been done in India. b. The
contention of the Revenue that OEMs (ie Motorola and ZTE ) carries out
installation work for Tata and hence there is some business activity being
carried by the OEM in India is factually incorrect and contrary to the clauses
in the equipment purchase agreement which clearly states that installation of
the equipment is carried out by a third party appointed by the purchaser (ie
Tata) in consultation with the Supplier.
Even presuming for a moment that the installation of the equipment is done by
the OEMs in India, the Revenue has failed to demonstrate/prove that the
patents licensed by Qualcomm are used by Motorola/ ZTE for carrying out such
installation activities in India.
c. The next contention of the Revenue that the patented technology is used by
the OEMs to manufacture India specific products and  126 that the handsets are
customized and programmed to include a code assigned to a specific operator.
Hence there is a certain degree of use of the property for the purpose of
carrying on business in India.
143\. This arguments cannot be accepted for the following reasons:-
> i. During the course of hearing it is admitted that handsets in question
> embody two technologies (a) technology with respect to the functionality of
> the hand sets and (b) technology with respect to CDMA connectivity. ii. The
> patents of Qualcomm are admittedly for manufacture of handsets and
> infrastructure equipment which are sold worldwide. There are no patents of
> Qualcomm which are used for customization of handset with respect to CDMA
> connectivity.
> iii. The patents in question, on which royalty is sought to be taxed, have
> nothing to do with the functionality of the hand sets. Functionality of the
> handsets may be customer specific or operator specific or India specific but
> technology with respect to CDMA connectivity, is a universal technology and
> is not customer specific.
> iv. Customisation such as locking the handset to enable operation only with
> a specific operator and other operators with whom reciprocal or other
> arrangements are available, inclusion of Hindi or other regional languages,
> calculator, music, ring tones, browsers and numerous other features are no
> way connected with patents of Qualcomm in these 16 agreements which are for
> manufacture of CDMA handsets and equipments. In fact in each hand set a
> number of patented technologies other than patents with respect to CDMA
> connectivity are also used. Hence the  127 argument that patents relating to
> CDMA technology are customer specific, service provider specific or country
> specific is factually incorrect. There is no customization of hand set qua
> the CDMA connectivity.
v. Coming to the argument that hand set are programmed to a particular net
work service provider and hence it is India specific is not tenable. As
rightly pointed out by Mr. Dastur locking of a handset to network is a
requirement of the network service provider depending upon its business plans
and exigencies and does not affect the ability of the handset to operate on
any CDMA telecom network, which is evident from the fact that once the network
lock is broken the handset can operate on any network. This fact is also
supported by the decision of the AP High court in the case of Asifuddin and
others (Supra).Hence it cannot be concluded that CDMA technology was service
provider specific.
Network locks are requested by network service providers to keep the
subscribers with them for an extended period. There is no dispute that the
locked handset is capable of working anywhere in the world. This is evident
from the scheme on international roaming using CDMA handsets downloaded from
the website of Reliance Communications. Further there is also no dispute that
all telecom operators permit international roaming. Though handsets that may
have been purchased under certain terms are locked with a particular network
service provider, the handset is capable of working in any country of the
world with which that particular network service provider has commercial
understanding. This clearly demonstrates that the CDMA connectivity of the
phone is in no manner  128 connected with the locking of the phone with a
network service provider. Hence, in our view the decision of the A.P High
court in the case Syed Asiffudin and others (Supra) is not relevant .
144\. Even otherwise, we are unable to understand as to how sale of India
specific handsets can be a basis of coming to the conclusion that the OEMs are
carrying on business in India. There are numerous patented IPR's belonging to
not only Qualcomm but also to a number of other parties, as well as the OEM's
themselves and all these patented IPR's are used for manufacturing certain
products which are sold to parties in India. The purchaser may have the option
to chose the technologies available or even specify certain additional
requirements. Sale of such customised products by no stretch of imagination
can be considered as business being done in India. A buyer of a product may
specify his requirements and when the product is manufactured to such
specification it does not tantamount to carrying on business in India. It does
not cease to be a sale of a product. No such allegation was made with respect
to network equipment being India specific has been made. Technology for
manufacturing products is different from products which are manufactured from
the use of the technology for which Qualcomm has patents. The role of Qualcomm
ends when it licensed its patents on IPR's pertaining to CDMA products for
manufacture and when it collects royalty from OEM's on these products, when
they are shipped out of the country of manufacture. There is no activity for
Qualcomm after this sale and shipment under these 16 agreements. For the OEM's
it is a sale of a product which is the end of the activity. The revenues are
generated on sale only. There are no revenues either to the OEM's or to  129
Qualcomm after the sale of the products. The sale is of a chattel as a
chattel. The product is a combination of Hardware, integrated circuits,
designs, multiple application software, CDMA components, chipsets with
embedded software etc. The revenues attempt to break down the sale into
various components is not supported by the terms of the agreements and the
facts of this case. It cannot be said that every item other than software was
sold and that software which is embedded has been separately licensed. It is
not the case of the revenue that the OEM's have income in India from these
sales or that they have income from licensing of software in these products
which is assessable to tax. There is no finding that the OEM's have carried on
business in India much less that a part of the sale consideration is
attributable to any sale or licensing of software carried out in India. When
OEM's itself are not brought to tax, to hold that Qualcomm is taxable in not
correct. This is not a case of the OEM's being not taxed due to a lapse of the
officer concerned or being let off by the revenue by mistake or oversight. It
is not brought to our notice that the OEM's have been brought to tax in any of
the subsequent years. Thus the argument that two wrongs do not make a right
does not apply to the situation on hand.
145\. Regarding passing of the title in the equipment, there is no evidence
with the revenue, for any of the assessment years before us that the title
passed in India and that certain further activity was done by the OEM's in
India after the sale. As already stated the burden is on revenue to prove that
business is carried on in India by the OEM's. Arguments have been made without
the support of any document or evidence pertaining to these years. The revenue
contended that the title in the goods passes to Tata at the port of
destination i.e. India based on agreements of 2007. Though these documents
have no relevance for the years under consideration, on  130 a perusal of
these 2007 agreements we find that there is no clause in both the agreements
to support the contentions of the Revenue that the title in the goods passes
at the "port of destination".
Clause 14.1 of the agreement between Tata and ZTE read as under. " Without
prejudice to TTSL's right to reject as set forth in Article 6.4 of this
agreement , the title of all equipment sold hereunder shall pass from the
supplier to the TTSL in high seas before arrival in India and the risk to loss
to the Hardware portion of all equipment shall pass from supplier to TTSL upon
provisional acceptance".
146\. From the above clause, it is evident that title of the equipment has
passed to Tata in high seas before arrival in India. The fact that the risk to
the equipment shall pass on provisional acceptance is not relevant for
determining where the title in the equipment passes, which in this case is
clearly outside India as per the specific understanding of the parties. The
plea to infer otherwise is to be rejected as it is against the express intent
of the parties.
147\. In our view this issue stands covered by the decision of the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in the case of Ericsson AB (Supra) . Ericsson and Nokia's was
the case of the OEM's who are into supply of GSM equipment to Indian telecom
operators for use in fixed/mobile GSM telecommunication. The equipment was
manufactured and supplied from overseas; installation was carried out by their
respective affiliates in India. Along with hardware, perpetual license was
granted by all the three companies for use of software . Software was
inseparable and integral part of hardware, without which hardware could not
function. Significant restrictions were placed on the Indian telecom operators
on use of software. (The Indian telecom operators  131 could not onward sell
the software independently without sale of the hardware, etc). there were
distinct agreements with an overall agreement for supply and installation of
GSM Systems, through split into separate agreements , one for supply and the
other for installation which was left to the subsidiaries. The facts of this
case are similar to the facts of the case of Ericsson AB.
The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held as under:
Para 41. "We find that the terms of contract make it clear that acceptance
test is not a material event for passing of the title and risk in the
equipment supplied. It is because of the reason that even if such test found
out that the system did not conform to the contractive parameters, as per art.
21.1 of the supply contract, the only consequence would be that the cellular
operator would be entitled to call upon the assessee to cure the defect by
repairing or replacing the defective part. If there was delay caused due to
the acceptance test not being complied with, art. 19 of the supply contract
provided for damages. Thus, the taxable event took place outside India with
the passing of the property from seller to buyer and acceptance test was not
determinative of this factor. The position might have been different if the
buyer had the right to reject the equipment on the failure of the acceptance
test carried out in India. In Skoda Export (supra), the Andhra Pradesh High
Court dealt with this issue in the following manner "We may also mention that
learned standing counsel for the Department challenged the finding of the
Tribunal that the sale of machinery was completed outside India. According to
him, the sale was completed only in India, in as much as the assessee was
entitled to and satisfy itself about the quality and standard of the machinery
supplied. We do not see any substance in this contention. The various clauses
in the agreement referred to above make it clear that the sale of machinery
was F.O.B., European  132 port, and the time of fulfillment of delivery was
prescribed as the date of the bills of lading. The payment was also to be made
outside India. The agreement further makes it clear that the insurance risk
during the course of the journey was that of the assessee and it paid for the
same: even the freight charges from the European port to the place of
destination were paid by the assessee. Thus, judged from any angle, the sale
of machinery, which are 'goods' within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act,
was completely outside India. A mere provision in the agreement that the
assessee is entitled to satisfy itself about the quality and standard of the
machinery in India cannot, in the circumstances of this case, detract from the
fundamental position that the sale took place outside India. In such a
situation, one has to apply the test of predominance and decide where the sale
took place ? On a combined reading of the clauses of the agreement, we have no
doubt that the sale of machinery did take place outside India."
149\. We would discuss the propositions laid down in this case in greater
detail later in this order
150\. Coming to Clause 14.1 of the agreement between Tata and Motorola it read
as under:
> Clause 14.1 - Title and risk of loss (Page no 14):
> "Without prejudice to TTSL's right to reject as set forth in Article 6.4 of
> this Agreement, the title and the risk of loss to the Hardware portion of
> all Equipment sold hereunder shall pass from Supplier to TTSL upon Delivery
> in accordance with CIP Incoterms 2000 port of shipment."
> Delivery (Page no 44) is defined to mean -"Delivery" or  133 "Delivered" or
> "Deliveries" shall mean the physical delivery by the Supplier, of the
> Equipment ordered by TTSL on CIP terms (as defined above), at airports/
> seaports mutually designated by the Parties.
> CIP (Page no 43): "CIP" means "Cost, Insurance Paid" to airport/ seaport in
> India as defined in Incoterms 2000. It means that supplier shall pay and
> bear the cost of packing/loading/unloading, transportation, carriage ,
> freight, unloading charges, insurance and any other cost or any nature at
> any time prior to Delivery.
151\. It is the submission of the Revenue that entire risk is borne by
Motorola and the carriage, insurance is paid till the delivery at seaports /
airports in India. Hence ,the sale concludes in India. The reference by the
Appellant to CIP Incoterms 2000 does not alter the situation because the
expression by its very definition in the agreement means obligation to bear
carriage and insurance charges up to airports/ seaports in India.
152\. At this stage, we find it relevant to extracts the definition of CIP
from Incoterms 2000.
CIP-" Carriage and Insurance Paid to ..." means that the seller delivers the
goods to the carrier nominated by him but the seller must in addition pay the
cost of carriage necessary to bring the goods to the named destination. This
means that the buyer bears all risks and any additional costs occurring after
the goods have been so delivered. However, in CIP the seller also has to
procure insurance against the buyer's risk of loss or  134 damage to the goods
during the carriage.
"Carrier" means any person who, in a contract of carriage, undertakes to
perform or to procure the performance of transport, by rail, road, air, sea,
inland waterway or by a combination of such modes.
> "Delivery" -The seller must deliver the goods to the carrier contracted in
> accordance with the contract of carriage or, if there are subsequent
> carriers to the first carrier, for transport to the agreed point at the
> named place on the date or within the agreed period.
153\. On conjoint reading of the agreement with the definitions from Incoterms
2000, it is very clear that the title and risk of loss passes to the buyer, on
the physical delivery of the equipment by the OEM to the carrier, at the port
of shipment. The term "port of shipment" is definitely not a port in India.
CIP Inco terms 2000 provides that the delivery from the seller to the buyer
concludes at the port of shipment upon delivery to the carrier. The obligation
on Motorola to bear the cost of delivery up to the port of destination (ie
India) is irrelevant to decide where the title passes. This is merely a
contractual term between the parties to clarify who is to bear the cost of
transshipment, insurance etc. The argument that the contract has to be read as
whole to ascertain the intention of the parties as to when the title and the
risk passed in goods is devoid of merit in the present case as the agreement
itself are very specific as to when the title and the risk where to pass.
153 A. As already stated under identical facts in the case of Ericsson A.B.,
the Delhi Special Bench in Motorola Inc vs. DCIT [95 ITD 269] held that the
title of the GSM equipment passed outside India. The  135 order of the Delhi
Special Bench decision in the case of Ericsson was latter affirmed by the
Delhi High Court in DIT vs. Ericsson A.B.(Supra). Regarding the applicability
of Ericsson and Nokia ruling, we are unable to appreciate the argument that
the propositions in these judgments would not be applicable to the facts of
the present case. To tax the royalty income earned by Qualcomm, the Revenue
must show that the OEMs have used Qualcomm's patents for a business carried on
in India or for making or earning income from a source in India, which leads
to the taxability of the OEMs. Therefore, the taxability of Qualcomm directly
depends on the OEMs taxability in India.
154\. Ericsson was a company incorporated in Sweden. It was engaged in the
business of supply of hardware and software. It entered into an agreement with
10 Cellular operators in India for supply of telecommunication systems. These
were installed and commissioned in India by two sister concerns of Ericsson,
one being a branch of Non-
Resident group company, and the other being Resident company of the same
group. There was an overall agreement with the operators for supply and
installation of GSM systems. The supply of equipment was made on continuous
basis. The supply had to satisfy the acceptance test. The issue before the
Court was the taxability of such supplies in respect of which title and risk
in the goods passed to the customers before the goods were delivered in India.
The Assessing Officer held that the assessee company had a business connection
under domestic law and that it had a Permanent Establishment under the Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and Sweden. Business  136 profits
were estimated. Entire consideration for supply of software was brought to
tax. Income from hardware was estimated at 26% of the billed supplies of
hardware. The Hon'ble High Court held that:-
a) The title in the goods passed to the buyer before the goods reached the
Indian shores and hence no profit could accrue to the Non-Resident. Sec.19 of
the Sale of the Goods Act would have application.
b) The fact that the contract itself is signed in India or that the freight
charges are borne by the importer would make no difference to the inference as
was pointed out by the Hon'ble A.P.
High Court in the case of Addl.CIT vs. Skoda Exports.
c) The fact that the insurance risk was with the supplier before landing does
not alter the situation.
d) Acceptance test can not also lead to a different conclusion as it was meant
for ensuring that the supply conforms to the contract para meters.
e) The right to get back the goods after landing, if the importer does not
take delivery for whatever reason, could also make no difference since the
title has passed to the buyer before landing.
f) Since the installation was also not undertaken by the assessee company, no
income therefrom can be brought to tax.
137
g) The issue whether the assessee had a Permanent Establishment in India
during the year is academic in the light of the fact that the assessee has no
business connection.
h) That since software is loaded on the hardware in terms of contract, it did
not have any independent existence, so as to justify the inference that there
has been supply of software.
i) The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tata Consultancy
Services vs. State of A.P. making a distinction between assignment of
"copyright right" and sale of "copy righted product" could not be disregarded.
j) Computer programmes are goods and merely because the software was unloaded
from dumb C.D. from the computer, usable only when it is activated, it does
not cease to be goods.
k) The payment to the assessee cannot be split up as between supply and
royalty/technical fees.
l) There is no assignment of any copy right in the facts of the case, in the
sense contemplated under Section 14 of the Copy Rights Act, 1957 as a
consequence of either the overall agreement or the supply contract.
m) The difference between acquisition of a "copyright right" and a "copy
righted product" was pointed out.
155\. In the case of Director of Income Tax vs. Nokia Net Works O.Y. 212
Taxman 618, the relevant facts are:- The assessee, a  138 company incorporated
under the laws of Finland, was a leading manufacturer of advanced
telecommunication systems and equipment (GSM equipment), which were used in
fixed and mobile phone net works. During the Previous years, the assessee
maintained a LO and also had a subsidiary in India, known as, Nokia India
P.Ltd.(NIPL). Its activities involved supply of hardware and software as well
as installation and commissioning and also after sale services. It entered
into agreements with various Indian telecom/cellular operators and entered
into three contracts with them, namely, (1) overall agreement, (2) supply
agreement and 3) installation agreement. The assessee supplied GSM equipment,
i.e. both hardware and software manufactured in Finland to Indian telecom
operators from outside India on a principal to principal basis under
independent buyer/seller arrangements. Installation activities were undertaken
by NIPL under its independent contracts with Indian telecom operators. The
Assessing Officer held that the assessee was carrying on business in India
through a PE. Both the LO and NIPL constituted a PE of the assessee in India.
70 per cent of the total equipment revenue attributed to sale of hardware. The
remaining 30 per cent of the equipment revenue attributed towards supply of
software and the same was taxed as royalty both under Section 9(1)(vi) and
under Article 12 of DTAA between India and Finland holding that software was
not sold but licensed to the Indian telecom operators.
139
The Hon'ble High Court held as follows:-
a) if supply agreement is taken as a stand alone agreement, the property in
the goods passes to the buyer outside India and hence not taxable in India.
b) S.19 of the Sale of the Goods Act, 1930 makes it clear that property in the
goods passes when the parties intend it to pass.
The intention of the parties is manifest in Article 13 of the Supply Contract
and provisions of Article 15 in no manner militate against such intention.
There is nothing in the conduct of the parties, which would suggest that the
express provision of Article 13 have been given a go by.
c) The fact that the supply contract was signed in India does not change the
circumstance. Acceptance test, which was performed in India, is not a relevant
circumstance for determining as to whether income has accrued in India.
Acceptance test is not material even for passing of title and risk in the
equipment supplied.
d) The submission of the revenue that the three agreements, namely, overall
agreement, supply agreement and installation agreement, are to be taken to
form an integrated business arrangement between the parties which was governed
by the overall agreement proceeded on the basis that the assessee had entered
into contracts with cellular operators in India for setting  140 up of GSM
system in India, the hardware and software for which were supplied by the
assessee, and the installation thereof was also overseen by the assessee, who
was to ensure that it was carried out to the satisfaction of Indian buyers in
accordance with the terms of the contract. This was also considered by the
Court and it was held that the taxable event took place outside India with the
passing of the property from seller to buyer.
e) The decision might have been different if the buyer had the right to reject
the equipment on failure of acceptance test.
f) The overall agreement does not result in the income accruing in India. The
execution of the overall agreement is prompted by pure commercial
considerations.
g) Board Instruction No. 1829 dt. 29.1.1989 must continue to govern the
assessment for the relevant years, despite withdrawal of this Instruction by
CBDT by virtue of Circular no. 7/2008 dt.
22.10.2009.
h) The place of negotiation, the place of signing of agreement or formal
acceptance thereof or overall responsibility of the assessee are irrelevant
circumstances as the transaction relates to the sale of goods and the relevant
factor and determinating factor would be as to where the property in the goods
passes. In the instant case the property passed on the high seas.
141
i) Even if it is a case of a composite contract, the supply has to be
segregated from the installation and only then the question of apportionment
would arise.
j) That the Amendment to S.9 vide Finance Act, 2012 wherein Explanation IV, V
and VI have been added to S.9 seeking to clarify the scope of Clause (vi) of
Sub-section (1) of S.9, it was held that the amendment cannot be read into the
treaty.
k) The reasoning given in Ericsson AB's case would apply to Nokia Net Work
O.Y.
156\. In the facts of the present case, Motorola and ZTE are OEMs supplying
CDMA equipment to the Tata an Indian telecom operator. Their business model
and supply contract for CDMA equipment is similar to the supply contract
entered by the Ericsson and Nokia for supply of GSM equipment. Hence, we are
of the view that the propositions laid by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court with
respect to taxability of GSM equipment with embedded software would be
squarely applicable to taxability of OEM's supplying CDMA handsets and
equipment..
157\. Applying these principles laid down in Erricson"s case, to the facts of
the case on hand we have to hold that the title in the goods in this case has
passed outside India as per the clauses in the agreement when read with CIP
Inco Terms 2000.
158\. Even otherwise mere passing of title in goods imported into India, in
India, at the port of destination cannot lead to a conclusion that the OEM's
carry on business in India. It is business with India and  142 not business in
India. The mere passing of the title with no other activity does not result in
any income being attributable in India.
159\. For all aforesaid reasons, we uphold the arguments of Shri. Soli Dastur,
the Ld. Sr. Counsel, that OEMs have not carried on business in India, and that
the OEMs cannot be said to have used Qualcomm patents for the purpose of such
business in India.
160\. Before we come to the second limb of argument, we agree with the
argument of Mr Dastur that:
Limb i. covers cases where the right property or information has been used by
the non-resident payer (OEM) itself and is so used in a business carried on by
OEM's in India.
Limb ii. covers a case where the right property or information has not been
used by the non-resident payer (OEM) itself in the business carried on by it,
but the right property or information has been dealt with in such a manner as
would result in earning or making income from a source in India. Any other
interpretation to our mind would not be harmonious, as it would make limb(i)
otiose.
161\. Now we come to the second limb of the issue that is, whether the OEMs
have used Qualcomm's patents for the purpose of making or earning income from
a source in India. The Revenue once again heavily relied on the CDMA equipment
purchase agreement between Tata and ZTE and Tata and Motorola to demonstrate
that OEMs have used the Qualcomm's patents for the purpose of making or
earning income from a source in India. On the basis of the equipment purchase
agreement of 2007, it was submitted that the two agreements between Indian
operators and OEMs make a distinction between sale of equipment and licensing
of software embedded in the firm ware. It was submitted that Indian operators
have agreed to purchase the equipment and take licenses for the software.
143
In addition, the Revenue has also contended that Indian operators constitute a
source of income for the OEMs in India.
162\. Reliance was placed on Clause 19.5 of the agreement with ZTE dt. 19th
December, 2007, wherein it is recorded that all licensed material are the
property of the supplier or its suppliers. Hence it is argued that the
supplier of OEMs is Qualcomm which supplied the intellectual property to be
used under license for manufacturing of handsets/equipment. It was further
submitted that the agreement between Qualcomm and the OEMs, which was the
basis for the AO to assess the income, states in the Preamble that OEMs
desired to obtain licenses of Qualcomm's intellectual property to manufacture
and sell subscriber units.
163\. Reliance was placed on the definition of the term 'chip sets' in the
agreement, as well as other definitions such as "CDMA, ASIC" and it was argued
that OEMs have given license to use chip sets/ASICs purchased from Qualcomm in
manufacturing the handsets/equipment. It was argued that CDMA technology
belonging to Qualcomm is embedded in chip sets which are used by the OEMs and
licensed to Indian customers for further used by them. He further submitted
that , if this basic proposition is under dispute, relying on the decision of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court he submitted that the matter needs a more critical
examination by someone who understands CDMA technology.
164\. Clause 5.1 of the license agreement is relied upon and it is pointed out
that Qualcomm has granted worldwide licenses under Qualcomm's Intellectual
Property to make, import, use, sell or lease or otherwise dispose of
subscriber units and to make components and use and sell such components and
hence it is only software that was licensed by Qualcomm to OEMs. It was
further contended that intellectual property cannot be anything other than
chip sets or some other software going to be embedded in the
handsets/equipment.
144
165\. Reliance was also placed on Finance Act, 2012 wherein Explanation IV to
S.9(1)((vi) has been inserted. It was submitted that the argument that OEM
sell copyrighted article or thing and the argument and that they do not give
any right in the copy right, is of no consequence post this amendment as the
transfer of any rights in an intellectual property includes transfer of any
right to use of a computer software irrespective of the medium through which
it is transferred.
166\. In a nutshell the submissions of the Revenue are that Qualcomm has made
available to the OEMs its patented intellectual property relating to CDMA
technology in the form of chip sets/ASIC and that OEMs have inserted these
chip sets into the handsets/network equipment manufactured by them and that
these in turn have been licensed to Indian operators for which OEMs have
received a consideration and hence they have a source of income in India.
167\. These arguments of the Revenue are in our view not acceptable for the
following reasons:
a. The AO assessed the royalty arising from licensing of CDMA patents by
Qualcomm to OEMs. The royalty which is brought to tax by the AO does not refer
to any software being provided. It is not demonstrated by the Revenue that the
software is provided as part of the licensing of Qualcomm patents.
b. The software embedded in the hardware sold to Indian carriers by the OEMs
belong to the OEMs. The software may have been self generated or procured by
the OEM's.
c. None of the 16 agreements between Qualcomm and OEMs which form the basis
for assessment in these cases, refer to licensing of software. Thus to argue
that software is licensed from by Qualcomm to OEMs and which are in turn sub
licensed to the Indian Carriers is contrary to the facts of the case. The
software which is licensed at best relates to the functionality  145 aspect of
the product and has nothing to do with the capability to provide CDMA
connectivity.
168\. The revenue for the first time before the Tribunal argued that chip sets
are purchased by OEMs from Qualcomm and these chip sets which has embedded
software and helps in function of the hardware. This is not the basis on which
either the AO or the CIT (A) proceeded to tax in this case.
169\. It is not necessary for the OEMs to purchase chip sets from Qualcomm
only. The OEMs can also purchase the chip sets from a third party other than
Qualcomm. In fact, the AO in his assessment order had specifically held that
the income of QCT division from the sale of chip sets is not assessable and
that the assessment is confined to the income received by QTL division i.e.
the business segment of Qualcomm which is involved in licensing of the patents
to manufacture the products. We emphasis that what is brought to tax is the
royalty earned from the licensing of patents and not royalty earned on
software embedded in the chip sets.
170\. Regarding the request made by the revenue for remand of the case for
examination by a technical expert, We do not find it necessary at this stage
as there is no dispute that the software is embedded in the chipset and the
same is installed in the CDMA equipment. Selling of the chipsets is a part of
Appellant's QCT division activity and what is brought to tax by the AO is the
income of QTL division.
171\. Even otherwise, the software is embedded in the chip set and is an
integral part of the chipset. Further, the chip set is embedded in the hand
set/equipment and these are sold outside India. Further , the total price is
fixed for the equipment as a whole and there is no separate consideration for
the licensed material .
172\. Clause 19 of both the agreements which deals with provisions applicable
to licensed materials places significant restrictions (listed below) on Tata
for use of the licensed material.
146
i. The object code version of the software and related documentation could
only be used along with the equipment;
ii. Tata has no right to sell or sub license the licensed materials or modify,
decompile or disassemble the software furnished as object code to generate the
corresponding source code (part of firmware ) embedded in the equipment.;
iii. Tata shall hold the licensed materials in confidence and shall not,
without Motorola and ZTE's consent , disclose, provide or otherwise make
available, in whole or in part , any licensed material to anyone , excepts to
its employees having a need -to-know. Tata shall not copy software embodied in
the firmware.
iv. Tata is obligated to return all copies of the licensed materials to
Motorola and ZTE when the licensed materials are no longer needed by Tata or
if Tata's license in respect thereof is cancelled or terminated by the
Supplier. v. Further, equipment has been defined under the agreement to mean
and include certain CDMA equipment, including but not limited to the hardware,
the software, the firmware, the licensed material, and parts thereof and
related spares to be supplied by the supplier to Tata under the agreement. vi.
Further firmware and software have been defined in the agreements as under:
"Firmware" shall mean a combination of hardware and software represented by a
pattern of bits contained in such hardware.
"Software" shall mean a set of man and machine readable instructions on
magnetic or other appropriate media, including firmware, which is necessary
for the control,  147 operation and performance of the equipment in accordance
with the requirements of the specification contained in the agreement.
173\. In view of the specific clauses in the agreement, it is clear that the
software does not have an independent use and is a integral part of the
hardware without which the hardware cannot function. The software supplied was
a copyrighted article and not a copyright right.
174\. Applying the propositions laid down by the Jurisdictional High Court in
the case of Ericsson/Nokia (Supra), the income from embedded software cannot
be taxed in India. The software is only used with the hard ware and is not
independent of the Equipment or the chipset. Further, no separate
consideration is paid by Tata for licensing of the software under the
Equipment purchase agreement. Consideration is paid only for the equipment
which has numerous patented technologies, chip sets and software which enables
the hardware to function. The sale cannot be bifurcated or broken-down into
different components.
175\. Under the 16 licensed agreements between Qualcomm and the OEM which is
the basis for the AO as well as the CIT(A) to raise a demand, what is licensed
is the right to manufacture "subscriber units". Under these agreements
subscriber unit is defined as "complete CDMA telephone of which chip set is
only one part". Hence the arguments of the revenue is devoid of merit.
176\. Coming to the argument that the Indian telecom operators in India
constitute a source for the OEMs, the Privy Council in the case of Rhodesia
Metals Limited Vs. CIT (Supra) and the jurisdictional High Court in the case
of CIT Vs. Havells India Limited [ITA No.55/2012, ITA 57/2012] have laid down
that the source is the activity that gives raise to income. In the present
case, the right property or information licensed to OEMs relates to the
manufacture of the products and hence the source of royalty is the activity of
manufacturing. Though cited by  148 the Revenue, Rhodesia Metals in our view
entirely supports the Appellant's case. In that case, Rhodesia Metals Ltd.
carried on the business of developing mines in Southern Rhodesia and then
selling rights therein. The head seat and directing power of the company was
situated in England, the contracts of purchase and sale of the mining rights
were entered into in England and the consideration for sale of the mining
rights was received in England ( paragraph 2 at Page 50 of the order). Despite
all this, the Privy Council upheld the contention of the company that the
amount earned on sale of such mining rights was not chargeable to tax in
England since the source of income was the development of the mines, which
activity was carried out in Southern Rhodesia. Applying this principle to the
facts of the case at hand, it becomes clear that the source of the royalty is
the place where patent (right property or information) is exploited, viz.
where the manufacturing activity takes place, which is outside India. Hence,
we are unable to accept the contention that Indian telecom operators would
constitute source of income for the OEMs.
177\. Coming to the insertion of Explanation IV to S.9(1)(vi)of the Act, we
find that the amendment has no effect in the present case as a controversy in
this case is taxability of royalty on patents relating to intellectual
property for manufacture of CDMA handsets and equipment and does not relate to
royalty on licensing of any computer software. The OEMs received no income
from licensing in computer software. The OEMs sells handsets/equipments to the
service providers, outside India and hence the OEMs have no source of income
in India.
178\. Thus, for all these reasons, we are of the considered opinion that the
assessee was right in his argument that the Revenue has not proved that the
OEMs have carried on the business in India and that they have used Qualcomm's
patents for carrying on such business in India nor the Revenue has proved that
the OEMs have used  149 Qualcomm's patents for the purpose of making/earning
income from a source in India. Thus we hold that the royalty in question
cannot be brought to tax under S.9(1)(vi)(c) of the Act.
179\. The next issue is Whether the royalty paid by Qualcomm to OEMs can be
taxed in India under Article 12(7)(b) of the DTAA between India and USA.
180\. As we have held that the royalty in question cannot be brought to tax
under the Income Tax Act, 1961, we need not go into the question of
applicability under DTAA between India and USA as it would be an academic
exercise.
181\. Before we part, we observe that the Revenue in his effort to support the
order of the AO as well as the CIT(A) brought in agreements entered into by
Tata in later years i.e. in the F.Y. 2006-07 and 2007-08. It further widened
the grounds of assessment by bringing in not only new material but fresh
submissions like licensing of software, chip sets etc. Further, it also
brought in a fresh argument that CDMA is a wholesome technology and that
Qualcomm is the exclusive owner of the CDMA technology. He submitted that CDMA
technology works on certain scientific principles and cannot be broken into
handsets and network and this technology is provided by Qualcomm to Reliance/
Tata for earning royalty from third party.
182\. On the issue as to whether the CDMA technology is a wholesome technology
and whether Qualcomm per se is the exclusive owner of this technology we find
the following from the information gathered by us. .
183\. CDMA is a channel access method used by various radio communication
technologies. It is a method of wireless data communication that was
originally invented during world war II in England to thwart German wire
interference. CDMA history can be directly linked back to the 1940s when this
form of transmission was first envisaged. This technology has been used in
many communication  150 systems , including the Global Positioning System and
in the Omni Tracs. The other form of digital technologies currently used to
transmit in a wireless transmission is Frequency division multiple access
(FDMA) and Time Division Multiple access (TDMA). TDMA is the primary
commercial form of GSM phones (Source: Wikepedia, http://www.radio-
electronics.com/info/rf-technology- design/cdma/what-is-cdma-basics-
tutorial.php)
184\. Qualcomm was the first company to commercialize this technology in
OmniTracs (a fleet management system). Qualcomm publicly introduced the
concept that CDMA a digital communication technique method could be
commercially successful in cellular wireless communication applications.
Qualcomm was joined by US net work operators Nynx and Ameritch to develop the
first generation of CDMA telecommunication system. Later this team was joined
by Motorola and AT&T. As a result of this it was possible to start writing of
specification for CDMA in 1990. It was then a standard groups was set up with
the support of cellular telecommunications industry Association (CTIA) and the
telecommunication Industry Association (TIA). This group then published the
standard of first CDMA system in the form of IS 95 resulting in the formal
publication of IS 95A in 1995. (Source: Wikepedia, The first CDMA system was
launched in September, 1995 by Hutchson Telephone Co. Ltd. in Hongkong and SA
Telecommunications in Korea soon to be followed along with the net works in
the USA. Later CDMA 2000series of standards were developed. The standards for
CDMA are specified by 3GPP2 .( Source: http://www.radio-
electronics.com/info/rf-technology- design/cdma/what-is-cdma-basics-
tutorial.php,http://webopedia.com/TERM/C/CDMA.html ) A look at Wikipedia
discloses the following:-
> "3GPP2 is the standardization group for CDMA 2000, they set 3G standard
> based on earlier 2G CDMA technology.
151
> The participating associations are five officially recognized Standard
> Development Organizations ('SDOs'). They are: ARIB - Association of Radio
> Industries and Businesses (Japan) CCSA - China Communications Standards
> Association (China) TIA - Telecommunications Industry Association (North
> America) TTA - Telecommunications Technology Association (Korea) TTC -
> Telecommunications Technology Committee (Japan) These SDOs are known as the
> Project's Organizational Partners. 3GPP2 requires that a participating
> individual member company be affiliated with at least one of the
> Organizational Partners. In addition, the Project has welcomed Market
> Representation Partners (MRPs) who offer market advice to 3GPP2 and bring a
> consensus view of market requirements (e.g., services, features and
> functionality) falling within the 3GPP2 scope. They are: The CDMA
> Development Group (CDG) IPv6 Forum and Femto Forum The work of producing
> 3GPP2's specifications resides in the Project's four Technical Specification
> Groups (TSGs) comprised of representatives from the Project's Individual
> Member companies. The TSGs are:
> TSG-A (Access Network Interfaces) TSG-C (cdma2000ilil) TSG-S (Services and
> Systems Aspects) TSG-X (Core Networks) Each TSG meets, on average, ten times
> a year to produce technical specifications and reports. Since 3GPP2 has no
> legal status, ownership and copyright of these output documents is shared
> between the Organizational Partners. The documents cover all areas of the
> Project's charter, including cdma2000 and its enhancements."
185\. In view of the above, it would be incorrect to say that Qualcomm is the
owner of CDMA technology. What Qualcomm owns are essential patents in respect
of numerous intellectual properties based on CDMA technology. This fact is
evident from the clauses in the license agreements. A perusal of the license
agreements shows that Qualcomm itself obtains licenses from certain third
parties to use their CDMA patents.(page 247 and 292 of the paper book filed by
the Appellant). Thus the argument that CDMA is a technology owned by Qualcomm
is devoid of merit. All that Qualcomm owns is essential patented intellectual
properties developed under CDMA technology. To put it in  152 simple words a
mobile phone or a cell phone is a wireless data communication device which
works on wireless technology, while phone is a device that can make and
receive telephone calls over a radio link while moving around a wide
geographic area. It does so by connecting to the cellular net work provided by
a mobile telephone operator. This would allow access to the public telephone
net work. In addition to voice data transmission modern mobile phones also
support a wide variety of other services such as text messaging, MMS, e-mail,
inter-net access, short range wireless communication, blue tooth, business
applications, gaming and photography. Such mobile phones are also referred to
as a 'smart phones'. The other forms of wireless data communication
technologies currently in use are WiFi, global positioning system (GPS), blue
tooth, gig B, satellite television, wireless USB etc. From the above it is
clear that there are many digital technologies used to transmit data in
wireless form. Hence the argument that CDMA is a wholesome technology and that
Qualcomm is the exclusive owner of such technology cannot be accepted.
186\. There are a number of simple wireless technologies that are used by us
in our daily life. A T.V. remote or an A.C. remote have wireless technology
and it transmits signals between two points. Many other devices such as
washing machines,microwaves,cars,computers and even fixed landline telephones,
fax machines etc. have chipsets with embedded software which enable the
equipment to work. Technology in a sense, the patent of which is owned by
someone, is being used in India. All these devices which have chipsets with
some embedded software when operated may in a way result in use of licensed
software or IPR's in India. The use of such equipment cannot result in a
source of income for the as it is sale of a the equipment is as a "Chattel",
the title of  153 which gets transferred. The software is embedded in the
chipset and the chipset is part of the equipment. Hence this argument is
devoid of merit and hence cannot be accepted.
187\. In the result this issue of taxability of the "royalty" paid by OEM's to
the assessee is decided in favour of the assessee. Hence these grounds are
allowed.
188\. Regarding levy of interest under S. 234A of the Act- The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of CIT vs. Anjum Ghaswala ( 252 ITR 1) held that the levy of
interest under S. 234A to be mandatory in nature. Respectfully following the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, we uphold that levy of interest under
S. 234A of the Act. This ground is dismissed.
189\. Regarding levy of interest under S.234B of the Act- The decision of the
Jurisdictional High Court in the case DIT vs. Jacabs Civil Incorporated and
Mitsubishi Corpn. And Ors (330 ITR 578) is in favour of the assessee. The
above decision is also relied by the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of
Ericsson (Supra). Therefore, respectfully following the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
Date of Pronouncement :
File sent to Bench Clerk on :
Date on which file given to Head Clerk on:
Date of dispatching the Order on:
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
                                   ORDER
PER J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER All these five appeals are filed by
M/s.Qualcomm Incorporated and are directed against a common order passed by
the CIT(A)-XXIX, New Delhi dt. 26-06-2009 for the A.Y. 2000-2001 to A.Y.
2004-2005. All these appeals arise from the assessments framed by the
Assessing Officer ('AO') under section 143(3) read with section 147 of the
Income tax Act 1961('the Act'). Since the issues in all these appeals have
arisen from common facts and circumstances, the appeals were heard together
and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of
convenience.
2
2\. The Appellant has raised various common grounds. The grounds of appeals
are many and pertain to different limbs and contentions in support of Five
main issues that require our adjudication. These issues that arise in the
present appeals are summarized as under:
> a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the ld. CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated
> under S. 148/ 147 of the Act;
> b) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
                                   ORDER
PER J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER All these five appeals are filed by
M/s.Qualcomm Incorporated and are directed against a common order passed by
the CIT(A)-XXIX, New Delhi dt. 26-06-2009 for the A.Y. 2000-2001 to A.Y.
2004-2005. All these appeals arise from the assessments framed by the
Assessing Officer ('AO') under section 143(3) read with section 147 of the
Income tax Act 1961('the Act'). Since the issues in all these appeals have
arisen from common facts and circumstances, the appeals were heard together
and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of
convenience.
2
2\. The Appellant has raised various common grounds. The grounds of appeals
are many and pertain to different limbs and contentions in support of Five
main issues that require our adjudication. These issues that arise in the
present appeals are summarized as under:
> a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the ld. CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated
> under S. 148/ 147 of the Act;
> b) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
                                   ORDER
PER J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER All these five appeals are filed by
M/s.Qualcomm Incorporated and are directed against a common order passed by
the CIT(A)-XXIX, New Delhi dt. 26-06-2009 for the A.Y. 2000-2001 to A.Y.
2004-2005. All these appeals arise from the assessments framed by the
Assessing Officer ('AO') under section 143(3) read with section 147 of the
Income tax Act 1961('the Act'). Since the issues in all these appeals have
arisen from common facts and circumstances, the appeals were heard together
and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of
convenience.
2
2\. The Appellant has raised various common grounds. The grounds of appeals
are many and pertain to different limbs and contentions in support of Five
main issues that require our adjudication. These issues that arise in the
present appeals are summarized as under:
> a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the ld. CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated
> under S. 148/ 147 of the Act;
> b) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in exercising jurisdiction under section 251 of the Act to enhance
> the income of the Appellant in respect of royalty income earned by the
> Appellant from the OEMs on network equipment; and
> c) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs') of CDMA
> mobile handsets and network equipment, who are located outside India, under
> S. 9(1)(vi) (c) of the Income Tax Act;
> d) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs) of mobile
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
               Ms.Preeti Bhardwaj & Shri.Sourabh Srivastava
                                   ORDER
PER J.SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER All these five appeals are filed by
M/s.Qualcomm Incorporated and are directed against a common order passed by
the CIT(A)-XXIX, New Delhi dt. 26-06-2009 for the A.Y. 2000-2001 to A.Y.
2004-2005. All these appeals arise from the assessments framed by the
Assessing Officer ('AO') under section 143(3) read with section 147 of the
Income tax Act 1961('the Act'). Since the issues in all these appeals have
arisen from common facts and circumstances, the appeals were heard together
and are being disposed of by this consolidated order for the sake of
convenience.
2
2\. The Appellant has raised various common grounds. The grounds of appeals
are many and pertain to different limbs and contentions in support of Five
main issues that require our adjudication. These issues that arise in the
present appeals are summarized as under:
> a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the ld. CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated
> under S. 148/ 147 of the Act;
> b) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in exercising jurisdiction under section 251 of the Act to enhance
> the income of the Appellant in respect of royalty income earned by the
> Appellant from the OEMs on network equipment; and
> c) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs') of CDMA
> mobile handsets and network equipment, who are located outside India, under
> S. 9(1)(vi) (c) of the Income Tax Act;
> d) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the CIT(A) was
> justified in upholding the taxability of royalty income earned by Qualcomm
> Incorporated, from the Original Equipment Manufacturers ('OEMs) of mobile
Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, we hold that the Appellant is
not liable to pay interest under S.234 B of the Act.
190\. In the result all the appeals of the assessee are allowed in part.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 31st January 2013.
                        Sd/-                                 Sd/-
                (C.M. GARG)                          (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                         ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
        Dated: the 31st January, 2013
    *manga
                                                                     154
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
1\. Appellant; 2.Respondent; 3.CIT; 4.CIT(A); 5.DR; 6.Guard File By Order Dy.
Registrar // C O P Y // Date of Dictation:
Draft placed before the Author on:
Draft pronounced and placed before Second Member on: Draft discussed/approved
by the Second Member on: Approved draft came to Sr.P.S. on:
