Delhi High Court
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. vs Commissioner Of Income Tax on 11 December, 2015
Author: S. Muralidhar
    $~
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                                 Reserved on: 14th September 2015
                                                  Decided on: 11th December 2015
    +                             ITA 110/2014
           MARUTI SUZUKI INDIA LTD.                     ..... Appellant
                        Through: Mr. S. Ganesh, Senior Advocate with
                        Mr. Neeraj Jain and Mr. Udit Naresh, Advocates.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX          ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. P.Roy Choudhary, Advocate with
                        Mr. Ishant Goswami, Advocate.
                                  AND
    +                             ITA 710/2015
           MARUTI SUZUKI INDIA LTD.                    ..... Appellant
                         Through: Mr. S. Ganesh and Mr.Ajay Vohra,
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
                   Advocate.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX            ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. G.C. Srivastava, Advocate.
           CORAM:
           JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                                  JUDGEMENT
          %                         11.12.2015
    Dr. S.Muralidhar,J.:
    Introduction
1\. These are two appeals by the Assessee, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. ('MSIL'),
under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('Act'). ITA ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 1 of 45 No.110 of 2014 is directed against an order dated 2nd
August 2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ('ITAT') in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for the Assessment Year ('AY') 2005-06. ITA No.710 of 2015 is
an appeal against the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No. 5120/Del/2010 for the AY 2006-07.
2\. These appeals concern the issue of determination of arm's length price
('ALP') of the advertisement, marketing and sales promotion ('AMP') expenses
incurred by the Assessee, MSIL.
3\. By the impugned order dated 2nd August 2013, the ITAT followed its
decision in LG Electronics India Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT 2013 22 ITR (Trib) I and
held that the Assessing Officer ('AO') was entitled to make a transfer pricing
adjustment under Chapter X of the Act in respect of the AMP expenditure
incurred by MSIL on the ground that such expenditure created brand value and
marketing intangibles in respect of the brands/trademarks belonging to MSIL's
Associated Enterprise ('AE'), Suzuki Motor Corporation, Japan (hereinafter
'SMC').
Background facts
4\. MSIL is engaged in the manufacture of passenger cars in India. It is a
subsidiary of SMC. As on 31st March 2006, SMC held 54.21% shares in MSIL.
10.27% of the shares were held by the Government of India and the balance was
held by the Indian public and others.
5\. MSIL started its business in 1982 as a Government of India owned company.
SMC was selected as the business partner independently by MSIL. It is stated
that the co-branded trademark 'Maruti-Suzuki' was used since the inception of
MSIL. A licence agreement was entered between MSIL and SMC in October 1982 for
its models M-800, Omni and Gypsy. By the said agreement, MSIL was permitted to
use the co-branded ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 2 of 45 trademark 'Maruti-
Suzuki' on the said vehicles.
6\. MSIL filed its return of income for the AY 2005-06 on 31st October 2005,
declaring an income of Rs. 13,46,51,71,140/-. Its case was selected for
scrutiny and notices under Sections 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act were issued.
During the course of assessment proceedings, the AO invoked the provisions of
Section 92CA (1) of the Act and referred the case to the transfer pricing
officer ('TPO') for determination of ALP in relation to the international
transactions undertaken by MSIL with its AE, SMC. This included purchase of
components, consumables and spare parts, sale of vehicles, purchase of capital
items, technical/other services, sale of spares and components, warranty and
product recall charges, purchase of CBUs, cost sharing and payment of royalty
for technology/trademark.
7\. On the basis of the above reference, the TPO passed an order dated 21st
December 2010 under Section 92CA(3), determining the ALP of the aforementioned
international transactions between MSIL and SMC. The TPO proposed an addition
of Rs.252.26 crores to the returned income of MSIL. The TPO made an adjustment
of Rs.98.14 crores as regards the royalty paid by MSIL attributing the same
towards payment for use of foreign trademark of SMC on the ground that the
brand had no value. The said adjustment was later deleted by the ITAT. The
remaining adjustment of Rs.154.12 crores was towards the AMP expenses by
imputing a notional/purported arm's length compensation towards the AMP
expenses incurred by MSIL for SMC.
8\. The case of MSIL is that while undertaking the above exercise, the TPO, on
his own, benchmarked the AMP expenses incurred by MSIL in India, although that
international transaction was not specifically referred to the TPO. The
aggregate AMP expenses incurred by MSIL was Rs. 204.4 crores ITA Nos.110/2014
& 710/2015 Page 3 of 45 which constituted 1.87% of its sales. Of this, Rs.162
crores was advertisement expenses and Rs. 42.10 crores was towards sales
promotion. The TPO undertook the benchmarking analysis by applying the 'bright
line test' ('BLT') and compared the proportion of such expenses incurred by
MSIL with that incurred by comparable companies. The TPO compared the AMP
expenses incurred by MSIL i.e. 1.87% of its turnover with the mean of 0.620%
incurred by the comparable companies i.e. Hindustan Motors, Tata Motors and
Mahindra & Mahindra. Since the ratio of selling and distribution expenses as a
percentage of sales of MSIL was higher than that incurred by the comparable
companies, the TPO concluded that the excess must be regarded as having been
incurred for promoting the brand 'Suzuki' owned by SMC. Accordingly, the
adjustment on account of AMP expenses was computed at Rs.154.12 crores.
9\. On the basis of aforementioned order of the TPO, the AO issued a draft
assessment order dated 31st December 2010 for AY 2005-06 under Sections 143
(3) and 144-C (1) of the Act. The total income was proposed at
Rs.16,38,06,61,370.
10\. Aggrieved by the aforementioned draft assessment order, the Assessee
filed objections before the Dispute Resolution Panel ('DRP') under Section
144-C (2) of the Act. By its order dated 23rd September 2011, the DRP upheld
the addition made by the TPO on account of AMP expenses.
11\. The AO completed the assessment in terms of the directions of the DRP and
passed the final assessment order on 28th October 2011, assessing the total
income of MSIL at Rs. 16,34,18,35,040 after making an addition of Rs.154.12
crores on account of the AMP expenses.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 4 of 45
12\. The appeal filed against the above order by the MSIL, being ITA No.
5237/Del/2011 for AY 2005-06 was disposed of by the ITAT by the impugned order
dated 2nd August 2013.
The decision of the Special Bench in LG Electronics
13\. On account of the importance of the issue of the ALP of AMP expenses
undertaken by a wide range of industries by way of international transactions,
a Special Bench of the ITAT was constituted in the case of LG Electronics
(supra) to consider the issue. The two questions considered by the Special
Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics were:
> "1. Whether, on the facts and in circumstances of the case, the Assessing
> Officer was justified in making transfer pricing adjustment in relation to
> advertisement, marketing and sales promotion expenses incurred by the
> Assessee?
> 2\. Whether the Assessing Officer was justified in holding that the assessee
> should have earned a mark up from the associated enterprise in respect of
> advertising, marketing and promotion expenses alleged to have been incurred
> for and on behalf of the associated enterprise?"
14\. It may be mentioned at this stage that several companies, including MSIL,
intervened in the proceedings. By a judgment dated 23rd January 2013, the
majority of the ITAT came to the following conclusions:
(i) The scope of Section 92CA(2B) covers all types of international
transactions in respect of which the Assessee had not furnished a report. The
TPO had jurisdiction to give a report on a different international transaction
as long as reference of an international transaction is made to him for
determination of the ALP.
(ii) The word 'transaction' under Section 92F (v) included an agreement
between two AEs which could be formal or in writing, or informal or oral. The
incurring of 'proportionately more' AMP expenses coupled with the ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 5 of 45 advertisement of brand or logo of the
foreign AE gave "strength to the inference of some informal or implied
agreement in this regard". The fact that the Assessee, apart from promoting
its name and products through advertisement, also promoted the foreign brand
simultaneously, coupled with its expenses being 'proportionately much higher'
than those incurred by comparable cases, lent credence to the inference of the
transaction between MSIL and SMC for creating marketing intangibles for the
benefit of the latter.
(iii) The second exception carved out by the Court in CIT v. LK Appliances
Ltd. 345 ITR 241 (Del) i.e. "where the form and substance of the transaction
are the same but the arrangements made in relation to the transaction, viewed
in their totality differ from those which would have been adopted by the
individual enterprise behaving in a commercially rational manner" governed the
situation where the AMP expenses incurred by the Assessee was higher or
different from what was incurred by independent enterprises behaving in a
commercially rational manner. The question to be answered was: "Whether an
independent enterprise behaving in a commercially rational manner would incur
the expenses to the extent the assessee has incurred". If the answer to this
question was affirmative, then the transaction cannot be re-characterised. If
however, the answer is in negative then the transaction needs to be probed
further for determining whether it required re-characterization. In other
words, the majority of the ITAT in LG Electronics was advocating the use of
the bright line test for the purposes of determining the existence as well as
ALP of an international transaction involving AMP expenses.
(iv) The concept of economic ownership of the brand, although relevant in a
commercial sense, was not recognized for the purposes of the Act. This is
because it was only the foreign AE which would recover the entire sale ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 6 of 45 consideration for the sale of the brand
and would be subject to the tax as per the relevant taxing provisions. The
distributors or wholesalers to whom the Assessee sells the goods by using the
brand logo of the foreign AE are economic owners "only in a commercial sense
for the limited purpose of exploiting it for the business purpose".
(v) Unless a transaction was an international transaction, within the meaning
of Section 92B, it could not be subjected to the transfer pricing provisions.
The meaning assigned to 'international transaction' in terms of Clause (iv) of
Section 92B was inclusive and not limited to the types of transactions in sub-
clauses A to C and E of Clause (i). The bright line test was a way of finding
out the cost and value of the international transaction, which was the first
variable under Section 92 of the Act. If the Assessee failed to supply the
cost/value of the international transaction and did not come forth to suggest
any cogent way of determining such cost/value, then the onus was on the TPO to
determine it on some rational basis. This could be by first identifying the
comparable domestic cases.
(vi) The exercise of separating the amount spent by the Assessee in relation
to the international transaction of building brand for its foreign AE in terms
of Section 92 of the Act cannot be considered as a case of disallowance of AMP
expenses under Section 37(1) of the Act. Both the Sections 37(1) and 92
operated in different domains.
(vii) Section 92 was of a much wider amplitude than Section 40A(2) of the Act.
While Section 40A (2) restricted the deduction to the extent it is reasonable,
Section 92 requires benchmarking of all the international transactions whether
they related to the expenses incurred by the Indian entity vis-à-vis its
foreign AE or the income earned from such foreign AE or any other transaction
having any effect on the income, losses or assets of ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 7 of 45 the Indian entity. The initial burden was on the
Assessee to show that the international transaction with the AE was at ALP.
This was also the purport of Circular No. 214 of 2001 issued by the CBDT.
(viii) A distinction needed to be made between expenses incurred for sales
promotion on the one hand and the expenses in connection with sales on the
other. While expenses for sales promotion directly led to brand building,
expenses in connection with sales was only sales specific. If the expenditure
was not in the nature of AMP, it ought to be excluded at the outset.
(ix) The correct approach under the transactional net margin method ('TNMM')
was to consider the operating profit for each international transaction in
relation to the total cost or sales or capital employed etc. of such
international transaction and not the net profit, total costs, sales, capital
employed by the Assessee as a whole at the entity level.
(x) The contention of the Revenue that the method for determining the AMP can
be a combination of methods prescribed under Section 92C(1) was devoid of
force. On a plain reading of Section 92C(1) with Rule 10 B(1), it was neither
possible to invent a new method nor to substitute a new methodology in place
of the one prescribed in Rule 10B (1).
15\. In the case of LG Electronics, the majority of the Special Bench of the
ITAT held that the DRP as well as the AO were right in applying the spirit of
the 'cost plus method' by first identifying the cost/value of service provided
to the Assessee and thereafter adding mark-up. It was held that a reading of
Section 92F(ii) with Rules 10A(a) and 10B(1) (c) of the Income Tax Rules 1962
('Rules') showed that ALP was the price of a transaction between non-AEs in
uncontrolled conditions. There could not be a hypothetical profit mark up
under Rule 10B (1) (c). In LG Electronics, therefore, the majority of the ITAT
set aside the cost/value of the ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 8 of 45
international transaction as determined by the TPO and restored the case to
the file of the TPO/AO for determining of the value afresh.
Proceedings in the writ petition of MSIL in this Court
16\. The decision of the majority of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG
Electronics also separately dealt with the case of the MSIL which was an
intervener. Even while the decision of the Special Bench was awaited, MSIL
filed W.P.(C) 6876 of 2008 in this Court challenging the notice issued by the
TPO for determining the ALP of the AMP expenses purportedly incurred by MSIL.
By an interim order dated 19 th September 2008, this Court directed that the
proceedings before the TPO may go on but the final order passed would not be
given effect to. Thereafter the TPO passed a final order on 30th October 2008.
The writ petition was then amended to challenge the said order.
Final order of the TPO
17\. In the final order, the TPO came to the conclusion that the trade mark
'Suzuki' owned by the SMC had piggybacked on the trade mark 'Maruti', without
any compensation being paid by SMC to MSIL. He also came to the conclusion
that the trade mark 'Maruti' had acquired the status of a 'super brand'
whereas the trade mark 'Suzuki' was a relatively weak brand. He concluded that
the promotion of the co-branding of 'Maruti-Suzuki' had resulted in (a)
promotion of the trade mark of the AE; (b) the use of the trade mark 'Maruti'
of the MSIL; (c) reinforcement of the Suzuki trademark which was a weak brand
as compared to Maruti in India and; (d) impairment of the value of the Maruti
trademark due to cobranding process.
18\. The TPO noted that MSIL had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 204.40 crores
on AMP expenses for the promotion of the "Maruti Suzuki" brand name which was
benefiting SMC. It was accordingly held that "AMP expenditure of Rs. 204.40
Crores is an international transaction." The ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page
9 of 45 assessee has incurred the cost in connection with a benefit and
services provided to the AE under a mutual agreement which was not in writing
but such arrangements were "proved from the conduct of the assessee". After
undertaking a comparability analysis of the AMP expenses incurred by other
comparable entities for the AY in question, the TPO concluded: "The assessee
had incurred above expenditure, in excess of bright line limit of Rs 136.76
Crores for brand promotion and market development for the AE, which would lead
to creation of marketing intangibles legal ownership of which was with the
associated enterprise of the assessee". After applying a 'mark up' the TPO
recommended that the AO should enhance the income of the assessee by an amount
of Rs. 154.12 Crores on account of compensation to be received from its AE for
promoting the brand name of its AE."
Order of the High Court in the writ petition
19\. In the final order passed in the writ petition, i.e. MSIL v. ACIT/TPO
(2010) 328 ITR 210 (Del.), the Division Bench of this Court came to the
following conclusions:
(i) The contractual obligations on MSIL under the agreement dated 12th
December 1992 to use the joint trademark 'Maruti Suzuki' as well as the parts
manufactured and/or sold by MSIL in India showed that SMC wanted to popularize
its name in India at the cost of brand Maruti.
(ii) It could not be accepted that there was no possible benefit to 'Suzuki'
on account of the compulsory use of the joint trademark 'Maruti Suzuki' on all
the parts and products manufactured and sold by Maruti in India. Since the TPO
may not be able to devise an objective and fair method to assess the monetary
value of the benefit obtained by Suzuki in the form of marketing intangibles
including the benefit on account of compulsory use of the joint trademark
'Maruti Suzuki', the TPO would have to determine ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
Page 10 of 45 the ALP by finding out "what payment, if any, a comparable
independent domestic entity would have made in respect of an agreement of this
nature".
(iii) Mere use of a foreign brand name by an AE in an intangible promotional
activity does not by itself entail payment by the owner of the foreign brand
name. The question was obviously whether a comparable independent entity would
have incurred such expenditure or not. Unless it is shown that the expenditure
incurred was disproportionate, there could be no justification for
apportioning the AMP expenses between a domestic entity and the foreign
entity.
(iv) The order passed by the TPO in making adjustment was based on no evidence
and the procedure followed by him was faulty. The order passed by him was
arbitrary and irrational. The TPO was accordingly directed to re-determine the
appropriate AMP in respect of the international transaction entered into by
MSIL with SMC in terms of Section 92C of the Act.
(v) While giving the above direction, the Division Bench summarized its
conclusions which included the following:
> (a) The onus was on MSIL to satisfy the TPO/AO that the AMP computed by it
> was consistent with Section 92 of the Act. If the TPO/AO proposed to make
> adjustment by revising the AMP, notices would have to be given to MSIL,
> followed by their reply and producing evidence.
> (b) The AMP expenditure incurred by the domestic entity using the trademark
> of the foreign name does not normally require payment or compensation by the
> owner of the foreign trademark or such use "so long as the expenses incurred
> by the domestic entity do not exceed ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 11 of
> 45 the expenses which a similarly situated and comparable independent
> domestic entity would have incurred".
Order of the Supreme Court
20\. Aggrieved by the above decision of the Division Bench, the MSIL filed a
Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court. The order of the Supreme Court,
reported as MSIL v. ACIT (2011) 335 ITR 121 (SC), reads as under:
> "By consent, the matter is taken up for hearing.
> In this case, the High Court has remitted the matter to the Transfer Pricing
> Officer ("the TPO" for short) with liberty to issue fresh show-cause notice.
> The High Court has further directed the Transfer Pricing Officer to decide
> the matter in accordance with law. Further, on going through the impugned
> judgment of the High Court dated July 1, 2010, we find that the High Court
> has not merely set aside the original show cause notice but it has made
> certain observations on the merits of the case and has given directions to
> the Transfer Pricing Officer, which virtually conclude the matter. In the
> circumstances, on that limited issue, we hereby direct the Transfer Pricing
> Officer, who, in the meantime, has already issued a show cause notice on
> September 16, 2010, to proceed with the matter in accordance with law
> uninfluenced by the observations/directions given by the High Court in the
> impugned judgment dated July 1, 2010.
> The Transfer Pricing Officer will decide this matter on or before December
> 31, 2010.
> The civil appeal is, accordingly, disposed of with no order as to costs."
ITAT's answers to the two issues
21\. The ITAT in the judgment in LG Electronics insofar as it pertained to the
case of MSIL, concluded that the directions given by the High Court to the TPO
for determining the AMP "has lost the tag of binding force". However, the ITAT
was of the view that the decision of the High Court on the AMP expenses
incurred by the MSIL towards brand building of SMC ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
Page 12 of 45 was neither commented upon nor considered by the Supreme Court.
Therefore, the contention that the entire judgment of the High Court was not
set aside was rejected by the majority of the ITAT. It was held that the
direction by the Supreme Court that the TPO has to make determination of the
ALP "inherently recognizes that there is a transaction of brand building
between the assesse and the foreign AE, which is an international transaction
as per section 92B and the TPO has the jurisdiction to determine the ALP of
such transaction."
22\. The conclusion of the majority of the ITAT in LG Electronics on the two
questions were as under:
(i) A transfer pricing adjustment in relation to AMP expenses incurred by the
Assessee for creating and improving the marketing intangibles for its foreign
AE was permissible.
(ii) Earning the mark up from the AE in respect of AMP expenses incurred by
the foreign AE was also allowed.
23\. The matter was restored to the file of the TPO for fresh determination.
The decision of this Court in Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications
24\. The correctness of the decision of the Special Bench in LG Electronics
came up for consideration in a batch of appeals before this Court which came
to be decided by a decision in Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India P.
Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax (2015) 374 ITR 118.
25\. Several appeals and cross-appeals filed by the Assessees and the Revenue
before this Court against the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG
Electronics and other decisions of the ITAT that followed the decision of the
Special Bench in LG Electronics. Although arguments were ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 13 of 45 heard in all the appeals, the Court decided the appeals
of only six Assessees i.e. Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt. Ltd,
Discovery Communications India, Daikin Air-conditioning India Pvt. Ltd., Haier
Appliances (India) Pvt. Ltd., Reebok India Company and Canon India Pvt. Ltd.
26\. The Court explained that all the above six Assessees were engaged in
distribution and marketing of imported branded products. In other words, none
of the Assessee whose appeals were decided was a manufacturer. The second
common factor noted by the Court was: "There is no dispute or lis that the
assesse are AEs who had entered into controlled transactions with the foreign
associated enterprises". Thirdly, the Court noted: "It is also uncontested
that the controlled international transactions can be made subject-matter of
the transfer pricing adjustment in terms of Chapter X of the Income Tax Act,
1961".
27\. The Court further explained the features particular to three of the said
Assessees i.e Sony Mobile Communications India Pvt. Ltd., Reebok India Company
and Canon India Pvt. Ltd. In the case of Sony Mobile Communications India Pvt.
Ltd., TNMM had been followed. In respect of Reebok India, the TNMM had been
followed for the sourcing of goods and exports from India, the CUP method had
been followed in respect of the royalty paid by the Indian entity to the
foreign AE and for import of apparels and footwear for re-sale, the re-sale
price ('RP') method had been followed. In the case of Cannon India, the RP
method was adopted for import of finished goods for resale.
28\. The following questions were addressed by the Division Bench in Sony
Ericsson (supra):
> (i) Whether the additions suggested by the Transfer Pricing Officer on
> account of Advertising/Marketing and Promotion ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
> Page 14 of 45 Expenses (AMP Expenses' for short) was beyond jurisdiction and
> bad in law as no specific reference was made by the Assessing Officer,
> having regard to retrospective amendment to Section 92CA of the Income Tax
> Act, 1961 by Finance Act, 2012\.
> (ii)Whether AMP Expenses incurred by the assessee in India can be treated
> and categorized as an international transaction under Section 92B of the
> Income Tax Act, 1961?
> (iii) Whether under Chapter X of the Income Tax Act, 1961, a transfer
> pricing adjustment can be made by the Transfer Pricing Officer/ Assessing
> Officer in respect of expenditure treated as AMP Expenses and if so in which
> circumstances?
> (iv) If answer to question Nos.2 and 3 is in favour of the Revenue, whether
> the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal was right in holding that transfer pricing
> adjustment in respect of AMP Expenses should be computed by applying Cost
> Plus Method.
> (v) Whether the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal was right in directing that
> fresh bench marking/comparability analysis should be undertaken by the
> Transfer Pricing Officer by applying the parameters specified in paragraph
> 17.4 of the order dated 23.01.2013 passed by the Special Bench in the case
> of LG Electronics India (P) Ltd.?"
29\. The summary of the conclusions of the Division Bench in Sony Ericsson
(supra) was as under:
(i) The Court concurred with the majority of the Special Bench of the ITAT in
the LG Electronics case qua the applicability of 92CA(2B) and how it cured the
defect inherent in 92CA(2A). The issue concerning retrospective insertion of
92CA(2B) was decided in favour of the Revenue.
(ii) AMP expenses were held to be international transaction as this was not
denied as such by the assessees.
(iii) Chapter X and Section 37(1) of the Act operated independently. The
former dealt with the ALP of an international transaction whereas the latter
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 15 of 45 deals with the
allowability/disallowability of business expenditure. Also, once the
conditions for applicability of Chapter X were satisfied nothing shall impede
the law contained therein to come into play.
(iv) Chapter X dealt with ALP adjustment whereas Section 40A(2)(b) dealt with
the reasonability of quantum of expenditure.
(v) TNMM applied with equal force on single transaction as well as multiple
transactions as per the scheme of Chapter X and the TP Rules. Thus, the word
'transaction' would include a series of closely linked transactions.
(vi) The TPO/AO could overrule the method adopted by the Assessee for
determining the ALP and select the most appropriate method. The reasons for
selecting or adopting a particular method would depend upon functional
analysis comparison, which required availability of data of comparables
performing of similar or suitable functional tasks in a comparable business.
When suitable comparables relating to a particular method were not available
and functional analysis or adjustment was not possible, it would be advisable
to adopt and apply another method.
(vii) Once the AO /TPO accepted and adopted the TNMM, but chooses to treat a
particular expenditure like AMP as a separate international transaction
without bifurcation/segregation, it would lead to unusual and incongruous
results as AMP expenses was the cost or expense and was not diverse. It was
factored in the net profit of the inter-linked transaction. The TNMM proceeded
on the assumption that functions, assets and risk being broadly similar and
once suitable adjustments have been made, all things get taken into account
and stand reconciled when computing the net profit margin. Once the
comparables pass the functional analysis test and adjustments have been made,
then the profit margin as declared when ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 16 of
45 matches with the comparables would result in affirmation of the transfer
price as the arm's length price. Then to make a comparison of a horizontal
item without segregation would be impermissible.
(viii) The Bright Line Test was judicial legislation. By validating the Bright
Line Test the Special Bench in LG Electronics Case went beyond Chapter X of
the Act. Even international tax jurisprudence and commentaries do not
recognise BLT for bifurcation of routine and non-routine expenses.
(ix) Segregation of aggregated transactions requires detailed scrutiny without
which there shall be no segregation of a bundled transaction. Set off of
transactions segregated as a single transaction is just and equitable and not
prohibited by Section 92(3). Set-off is also recognized by international tax
experts and commentaries.
(x) Segregation of bundled transactions shall be done only if exceptions laid
down in the EKL Appliances Case are justified. Re-categorisation and
segregation of transactions are different exercises; former would require
separate comparables and functional analysis.
(xi) Economic ownership of a brand would only arise in cases of long-term
contracts and where there is no negative stipulation denying economic
ownership. Economic ownership of a brand or a trade mark when pleaded can be
accepted if it is proved by the Assessee. The burden is on the Assessee. It
cannot be assumed.
(xii) After the order of the Supreme Court in the Maruti Suzuki case, the
judgment of the Delhi High Court does not continue to bind the parties. This
position was misunderstood by the majority of the Special Bench in the LG
Electronics Case.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 17 of 45
(xii) The RP Method loses its accuracy and reliability where the reseller adds
substantially to the value of the product or the goods are further processed
or incorporated into a more sophisticated product or when the product/service
is transformed. RP Method may require fewer adjustments on account of product
differences in comparison to the CUP Method because minor product differences
are less likely to have material effect on the profit margins as they do on
the price.
(xiii) Determination of cost or expense can cause difficulties in applying
cost plus (CP) Method. Careful consideration should be given to what would
constitute cost i.e. what should be included or excluded from cost. A studied
scrutiny of CP Method would indicate that when the said Method is applied by
treating AMP expenses as an independent transaction, it would not make any
difference whether the same are routine or non-routine, once functional
comparability with or without adjustment is accepted.
(xiv) The task of arm's length pricing in the case of tested party may become
difficult when a number of transactions are interconnected and compensated but
a transaction is bifurcated and segregated. CP Method, when applied to the
segregated transaction, must pass the criteria of most appropriate method. If
and when such determination of gross profit with reference to AMP transaction
is required, it must be undertaken in a fair, objective and reasonable manner.
(xv) The marketing or selling expenses like trade discounts, volume discounts,
etc. offered to sub-distributors or retailers are not in the nature and
character of brand promotion. They are not directly or immediately related to
brand building exercise, but have a live link and direct connect with
marketing and increased volume of sales or turnover. The brand building
connect is too remote and faint. To include and treat the direct marketing
expenses like trade or volume discount or incentive as brand ITA Nos.110/2014
& 710/2015 Page 18 of 45 building exercise would be contrary to common sense
and would be highly exaggerated. Direct marketing and sale related expenses or
discounts/concessions would not form part of the AMP expenses.
(xvi) The prime lending rate cannot be the basis for computing mark-up under
Rule 10B(1)(c) of the Rules, as the case set up by the Revenue pertains to
mark-up on AMP expenses as an international transaction. Mark up as per sub-
clause (ii) to Rule 10B(1)(c) would be comparable gross profit on the cost or
expenses incurred as AMP. The mark-up has to be benchmarked with comparable
uncontrolled transactions or transactions for providing similar
service/product.
(xvii) The exceptions laid down in EKL Appliances Case were neither invoked in
the present case nor were the conditions satisfied.
(xviii) An order of remand to the ITAT for de novo consideration would be
appropriate because the legal standards or ratio accepted and applied by the
ITAT was erroneous. On the basis of the legal ratio expounded in this
decision, facts have to be ascertained and applied. If required and necessary,
the assessed and the Revenue should be asked to furnish details or tables. The
ITAT, in the first instance, would try and dispose of the appeals, rather than
passing an order of remand to the AO /TPO. An endeavour should be to ascertain
and satisfy whether the gross/net profit margin would duly account for AMP
expenses. When figures and calculations as per the TNM or RP Method adopted
and applied show that the net/gross margins are adequate and acceptable, the
appeal of the assessed should be accepted. Where there is a doubt or the other
view is plausible, an order of remand for re-examination by the AO/TPO would
be justified. A practical approach is required and the ITAT has sufficient
discretion and flexibility to reach a fair and just conclusion on the ALP.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 19 of 45
The present appeals by MSIL: ITA 110 of 2014
30\. It may be noted that ITA No. 110 of 2014 by MSIL for AY 2005-06 was heard
with the above batch in Sony Ericsson (supra). However, as far as ITA 110 of
2014 (pertaining to AY 2005-06), no questions of law were separately framed.
On 30th September, 2014, the Court passed the following order in all the
appeals being heard together at that time, including ITA 110 of 2014:
> "Arguments on behalf of some of the assessees have been heard. It transpires
> that in some of the appeals, in addition to advertisement, marketing and
> sales promotion expenses, other issues and questions have been raised either
> by the assessees or by the revenue. Substantial questions of law have been
> framed in some appeals, but, substantial questions of law in other appeals
> are yet to be framed. It will be desirable if the counsel for the assessees
> as well as the Standing Counsel for the Department-revenue sit down and
> prepare a chart of cases which can be disposed of on the basis of arguments
> relating to Transfer Pricing adjustment on account of advertisement,
> marketing and sales, promotion expenses. We can also include appeals, which
> are already covered or do not require lengthy or detailed arguments on other
> unconnected aspect."
31\. Thereafter on 29th October 2014, the following questions were framed in
some of the appeals, including ITA 110 of 2014, in which till then questions
had not been framed:
> "1. Whether the additions suggested by the Transfer Pricing Officer on
> account of Advertising Marketing and Promotion Expenses ('AMP Expenses' for
> short) was beyond jurisdiction and bad in law as no specific reference was
> made by the Assessing Officer with regard to retrospective amendment to
> Section 92CA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the Finance Act, 2012.
> 2\. Whether AMP Expenses incurred by the Assessee in India can be treated
> and categorized as an international transaction under Section 92B of the
> Income Tax Act, 1961?
> 3\. Whether under Chapter X of the Income Tax Act, 1961, a transfer pricing
> adjustment can be made by the Transfer ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 20
> of 45 Pricing Officer Assessing Officer in respect of expenditure treated as
> AMP Expenses and if so in which circumstances?
> 4\. If answer to questions Nos.2 and 3 is in favour of the Revenue, whether
> the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal was right in holding that transfer pricing
> adjustment in respect of AMP Expenses should be computed by applying the
> Cost Plus Method.
> 5\. Whether the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal was right in directing that
> fresh bench marketing/comparability analysis should be undertaken by the
> Transfer Pricing Officer by applying the parameters specified in
> paragraph17.4 of the order dated 23.01.2013 passed by the Special Bench in
> the case of LG Electronics India (P) Ltd. v. ACIT?
32\. However, on the next date i.e. 30th October 2014, the Court was of the
view that the said appeal should be de-linked and passed the following order:
> "These matters will not be treated as part-heard as substantial corporate
> tax issues also arise for consideration and detailed arguments on these
> aspects are required and necessary."
ITA 710 of 2015
33\. At this stage, it is necessary to advert the brief facts giving rise to
the filing of ITA No. 710 of 2015 by MSIL for AY 2006-07. The TPO passed an
order on 26th October 2009 under Section 92CA(3) proposing addition of
Rs.124.24 crores to the return income on account of the excessive AMP
expenses. The AO passed the draft assessment order on 31st December 2009,
accepting the above report. This was upheld by DRP on 30th September 2010. The
AO then passed a final assessment order on 20th October 2010 making the
addition as proposed. On 23rd November 2011 the TPO passed the order under
Section 154 read with Section 92CA(v), enhancing addition by Rs.34,39,96,700
and recomputing the AMP adjustment to Rs.158.64 crores. The AO passed
rectification order dated 12th April 2012 under Section 154, enhancing the
total addition by the ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 21 of 45 above sum
while computing the total income.
34\. The ITAT by its order dated 24th August 2015 partly allowed MSIL's
appeals against both the orders dated 20th October 2010 and 12th April 2012
and sent the matter back to the file of TPO/AO for determination of the AMP in
the light of the Sony Ericsson (supra). By an order dated 10th September 2015,
this Court framed identical questions of law as framed in ITA 110 of 2014 and
directed both appeals to be heard together.
Preliminary issues
35\. One preliminary issue that requires to be addressed is whether on account
of the decision in Sony Ericsson it would be open to MSIL to question the
existence of an international transaction involving it and the AE i.e. SMC as
far as AMP expenses are concerned?
36\. It is contented of Mr. G.C. Srivastava, learned Special counsel for the
Revenue, that after the decision in Sony Ericsson the existence of an
international transaction between MSIL and SMC as far as AMP expenses is
concerned is not in dispute. It is submitted that in paras 51 and 52 of the
decision in Sony Ericsson, the Court answered the question "whether AMP
expenses incurred by the Assessee in India can be treated and categorised as
an international transaction under Section 92B" in the affirmative. It is
further submitted that the Sony Ericsson case does not distinguish the cases
of the manufacturers from those of the distributors except observing that TNMM
may not be an appropriate method in the case of entities which are performing
complex functions like manufacturing or making substantial value addition to
the material imported from the AE.
37\. It is further submitted by Mr. Srivastava that the distinction sought to
be drawn in cases of manufacturers and distributors is untenable for the
following reasons:
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 22 of 45
(i) The Appellants are not independent manufacturers who take all the risk.
They are not completely independent in their pricing policies including price
of raw material purchased from the AE, royalty payable to the AE and payments
made to the AE for copyrights and patents. Even their product pricing is not
completely independent. Therefore, benefits emanating from the AMP function
cannot be enjoyed by the Appellant by their own.
(ii) The Appellants are engaged in not only manufacturing but in distribution
of goods manufactured by the AE and other group companies.
(iii) The benefits to the AE from AMP function continue to be the same as in
the case of distributor like increase in sale of raw material, increase in
royalty, and increase in copyright and patent payments apart from
creation/enhancement of brand value.
38\. It is further submitted that the Bright Line Test ('BLT') was used by the
Revenue only as an arithmetical tool to arrive at the cost base of the AMP
expenditure. The determination of the cost base is a necessary step for
arriving at ALP of the transaction under different methods including the TNMM.
It is submitted that although the decision in Sony Ericsson rejects the use of
BLT for determining the existence of an international transaction for
determining ALP, and although the Revenue had filed an appeal in the Supreme
Court against the said finding, as far as the present appeals are concerned,
the Revenue seeks to establish the existence of an international transaction
de hors the BLT.
39\. In reply it is pointed out by Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior counsel for
MSIL, that the contention of the Revenue that the question regarding existence
of an international transaction on account of the incurring of AMP
expenditures by the Assessee has been decided by the Sony Ericsson case is
based on a patent misreading of that judgment. Reference is made to ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 23 of 45 para 3 of the judgment which notes the
admitted facts in those three cases. It is submitted that once the BLT has
been rejected by the decision in Sony Ericsson, the question of there being an
international transaction does not arise. It is submitted that the TPO's order
and the Assessee's case makes it clear that the BLT has been used first to
infer the existence of an international transaction and thereafter quantify
the amount of the TP adjustment. After the judgment in Sony Ericsson, BLT
cannot be used for either of the purposes.
40\. Independent of the above, it is submitted by Mr. Ganesh that the Revenue
has to show the existence of an agreement or an arrangement or an
understanding between MSIL and SMC prior to incurring of the AMP expenditure,
in terms of which MSIL would incur AMP expenditure in excess of the bona fide
requirements of its business in India and thereby may add to the value of the
brand of the foreign AE, i.e. SMC. In other words, a mere incurring of the AMP
expenditure may not be considered as an international transaction.
41\. Having considered the above submissions the Court proceeds to analyse the
decision in Sony Ericsson to determine if it conclusively answers the issue
concerning the existence of an international transaction as a result of
incurring of AMP expenditures by an Assessee.
42\. As already noticed, the judgment in Sony Ericsson does not seek to cover
all the cases which may have been argued before the Division Bench. In
particular, as far as the present appeal ITA No. 110 of 2014 is concerned,
although it was heard along with the batch of appeals, including those
disposed of by the Sony Ericsson judgment, at one stage of the proceedings on
30th October 2014 the appeal was delinked to be heard separately.
43\. Secondly, the cases which were disposed of by the Sony Ericsson ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 24 of 45 judgment, i.e. of the three Assessees
Canon, Reebok and Sony Ericsson were all of distributors of products
manufactured by foreign AEs. The said Assessees were themselves not
manufacturers. In any event, none of them appeared to have questioned the
existence of an international transaction involving the concerned foreign AE.
It was also not disputed that the said international transaction of incurring
of AMP expenses could be made subject matter of transfer pricing adjustment in
terms of Section 92 of the Act.
44\. However, in the present appeals, the very existence of an international
transaction is in issue. The specific case of MSIL is that the Revenue has
failed to show the existence of any agreement, understanding or arrangement
between MSIL and SMC regarding the AMP spend of MSIL. It is pointed out that
the BLT has been applied to the AMP spend by MSIL to (a) deduce the existence
of an international transaction involving SMC and (b) to make a quantitative
'adjustment' to the ALP to the extent that the expenditure exceeds the
expenditure by comparable entities. It is submitted that with the decision in
Sony Ericsson having disapproved of BLT as a legitimate means of determining
the ALP of an international transaction involving AMP expenses, the very basis
of the Revenue's case is negated.
45\. Since none of the above issues that arise in the present appeals were
contested by the Assessees who appeals were decided in the Sony Ericsson case,
it cannot be said that the decision in Sony Ericsson, to the extent it affirms
the existence of an international transaction on account of the incurring of
the AMP expenses, decided that issue in the appeals of MSIL as well. In this
context, para 52 of the decision in Sony Ericsson has to be read as a whole.
It reads as under:
> "52. The contention that AMP expenses are not international transactions has
> to be rejected. There seems to be an incongruity in the submission of the
> assessee on ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 25 of 45 the said aspect for
> the simple reason that in most cases the assessed have submitted that the
> international transactions between them and the AE, resident abroad included
> the cost/value of the AMP expenses, which the assessee had incurred in
> India. In other words, when the assessed raise the aforesaid argument, they
> accept that the declared price of the international transaction included the
> said element or function of AMP expenses, for which they stand duly
> compensated in their margins or the arm's length price as computed."
46\. The said passage has to be read in the context of the discussion
preceding it which concerns the Assessees whose appeals were being disposed of
by the said judgment. It is in the context of those Assessees that para 52
notes that "in most cases the assessed have submitted that the international
transactions between them and the AE, resident abroad included the cost/value
of the AMP expenses...".
47\. As regards the submission regarding the BLT having been rejected in the
decision in Sony Ericsson is concerned, the Court notes that the decision in
Sony Ericsson expressly negatived the use of the BLT both as forming the base
and determining if there is an international transaction and secondly for the
purpose of determining the ALP. Once BLT is negatived, there is no basis on
which it can be said in the present case that there is an international
transaction as a result of the AMP expenses incurred by MSIL. Although the
Revenue seems to contend that the BLT was used only to arrive at the quantum
of the TP adjustment, the order of the TPO in the present case proceeds on the
basis that an international transaction can be inferred only because the AMP
expenses incurred were significantly higher that what was being spent by
comparable entities and it was also used for quantifying the amount of the TP
adjustment. Consequently, the Court does not agree with the submission of the
learned Special counsel for the Revenue that de hors the BLT, which has been
rejected in the Sony ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 26 of 45 Ericsson
judgment, the existence of an international transaction on account of the
incurring of the AMP expenses can be established.
48\. The submission also proceeds on the basis that since MSIL pays royalty to
the foreign AE and makes payment in respect of the use of copyright and
patent, the benefit emanating from the AMP function cannot be said to be
enjoyed by MSIL alone. It also proceeds on the basis that the benefits to the
AE from AMP function would be same as in the case of a distributor namely
increase in sale of raw material, increase in royalty, and increase in
copyright and patent payments etc. The Court finds that these submissions are
not based on any empirical data and proceeds more on the basis of surmises.
Royalty payments have been separately assessed for transfer pricing purposes.
Likewise, payments for copyrights and patents have also been separately
treated.
49\. As far as the benefit to the AE, i.e. SMC, is concerned, the Revenue has
been unable to counter the submission on behalf of the MSIL that by the time
SMC acquired a controlling interest in MSIL in 2002, the Maruti brand had
already built a huge reputation. A significant amount of AMP expenses had
already been incurred by MSIL on its products. These products carried the co-
branded mark 'Maruti-Suzuki' which had a high degree of name recognition. The
Revenue has been unable to dispute that MSIL has the highest market share of
automobiles manufactured in India (about 45%) and year on year growth of
turnover of about 21%. In other words, the AMP expenses incurred by it have
substantially benefitted MSIL.
50\. The second aspect which the Revenue has been unable to dispute is that
SMC's AMP expenditure worldwide has been 7.5% of its sales whereas MSIL is
spending only 1.87% of its total sales towards AMP. Therefore, this belies the
possibility of any 'arrangement' or 'understanding' between ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 27 of 45 MSIL and SMC whereby MSIL is obliged to incur the AMP
expenditure for and on behalf of SMC.
51\. The result of the above discussion is that in the considered view of the
Court the Revenue has failed to demonstrate the existence of an international
transaction only on account of the quantum of AMP expenditure by MSIL.
Secondly, the Court is of the view that the decision in Sony Ericsson holding
that there is an international transaction as a result of the AMP expenses
cannot be held to have answered the issue as far as the present Assessee MSIL
is concerned since finding in Sony Ericsson to the above effect is in the
context of those Assessees whose cases have been disposed of by that judgment
and who did not dispute the existence of an international transaction
regarding AMP expenses.
Effect of the earlier decision in the writ petition by MSIL
52\. Another preliminary major issue that has been raised by the Revenue
concerns the effect of the earlier decision of this Court in the writ petition
filed by MSIL and the decision of the Supreme Court in the SLP filed against
the said decision.
53\. It is submitted on behalf of the Revenue that in light of the said
judgment of this Court, the findings which have not been disturbed by the
Supreme Court, it can no longer be contended by MSIL that there is no
international transaction resulting from the incurring of AMP expenses. This
submission is countered by the Assessee by pointing out that the earlier
decision in MSIL's writ petition virtually set aside the order of the TPO and
AO and required the TPO to proceed de novo. The Supreme Court in its turn did
not express any view on the existence of an international transaction and,
therefore, it was incorrect to contend that the judgment of the Supreme Court
impliedly affirmed the finding of the High Court regarding the existence of an
international transaction.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 28 of 45
54\. The Court finds that the Division Bench in Sony Ericsson had occasion to
deal with this very issue. In Sony Ericsson in para 156 after discussing the
issue it was observed as under:
> "156. A Division Bench of Delhi High Court in the writ petition challenging
> the Transfer Pricing Order had dealt with transfer pricing issues and had
> enrolled and culled out legal ratios and principles. Directions were issued.
> At the same time, an order of remand to the TPO to compute the arm's length
> price on the basis of said principles was passed. It would not be correct to
> hold that the Supreme Court had accepted and had given seal of approval and
> not interfered with the principles/ratio enunciated in the judgment by the
> Delhi High Court. The Supreme Court as is lucid did not want to examine the
> principles or ratio as enunciated and express their opinion on merits,
> though the directions issued by the High Court, it was observed, ―conclude
> the matter. The Supreme Court perceived and accepted that the issue' of
> arm's length price should be re- examined by the TPO without being curtailed
> or restrained by the legal principles/ratio delineated. As the Supreme Court
> itself was not examining the principles/ratio on merits, it did not pass any
> order in favour or against the assessee or the Revenue. Accordingly, the
> aforesaid observations. The effect thereof was that the judgment of the
> Delhi High Court would not operate as res judicata between the parties and
> merits, if required, would be examined and gone into in the appellate
> proceedings. The majority judgment has incorrectly inferred that the legal
> principles and directions issued by the Delhi High Court would continue to
> be binding decidendi and had attained finality, viz. the tax authorities and
> the Tribunal. It is not so indicated. If the legal principles/ratio was not
> binding on the writ petitioner, i.e. the assessed in the said case, it would
> be malapropos and inappropriate to treat the directions as binding ratio, in
> respect of third parties. Therefore, we have not treated the decision of the
> Delhi High Court in the case of Maruti Suzuki Ltd. (supra) as a binding
> precedent. Importantly, the Revenue has relied upon the final conclusions as
> recorded and the assessed have relied upon the earlier portions of the
> judgment. We have considered the reasoning given in the aforesaid decision
> and have reached our own conclusion."
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 29 of 45
55\. Consequently, this Court in Sony Ericsson proceeded on the basis that the
decision of this Court in the writ petition by MSIL was not a binding
precedent. Be that as it may, there are other reasons why the earlier decision
in the writ petition filed by MSIL cannot be held to survive. A careful
reading of the judgment of the Supreme Court reveals that the Supreme Court
asked the TPO to proceed with the matter in accordance with law "uninfluenced
by the observations/directions given by the judgment in the impugned order
dated July 1, 2010." That virtually nullifies the judgment of the High Court
on all aspects. A further reason is that even this Court in disposing of the
writ petition of MSIL proceeded on the basis of there being an international
transaction only on account of the excessive AMP expenses incurred by MSIL. In
other words, this Court disposing of MSIL's writ petition also applied the BLT
to determine the existence of an international transaction whereas throughout
it has been MSIL's case that the fact that its AMP spend is significantly
higher cannot ipso facto lead to the conclusion regarding the existence of an
international transaction in that regard between MSIL and SMC. With the
decision in Sony Ericsson having jettisoned the BLT, the very basis of the
judgment of this Court in the writ petition must be held to be no longer
binding. In any event, as far as MSIL is concerned, it did question the
decision of the Division Bench and succeeded in its appeal in the Supreme
Court insofar as the TPO was asked to determine the issue afresh uninfluenced
by the order of the High Court.
56\. The upshot of the above conclusion is that, in the considered view of the
Court, the earlier judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in the writ
petition by MSIL cannot be said to preclude MSIL from contesting the finding
regarding the existence of an international transaction concerning AMP
expenses.
Is there an international transaction concerning AMP expenses?
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 30 of 45
57\. The Court next turns to the principal contention of the Revenue that in a
particular situation of independent distributors/licensed manufacturers
matters relating to promotion of a brand of a foreign AE would necessarily be
a matter of negotiation between the parties and not necessarily be reduced to
writing as part of an agreement between them.
58\. It is necessary at this juncture to discuss the reasons for enactment of
Chapter X in the Act with the whole new scheme of provisions concerning
transfer pricing in the form of Sections 92B to 92F.
59\. Nevertheless, there is no specific mention of AMP expenses as one of the
items of expenditure which can be deemed to be an international transaction.
For this purpose, Section 92B(1) read with Section 92(1) becomes significant.
Under Section 92B(1) an 'international transaction' means-
(a) a transaction between two or more AEs, either or both of whom are non-
resident
(b) the transaction is in the nature of purchase, sale or lease of tangible or
intangible property or provision of service or lending or borrowing money or
any other transaction having a bearing on the profits, incomes or losses of
such enterprises, and
(c) shall include a mutual agreement or arrangement between two or more AEs
for allocation or apportionment or contribution to the any cost or expenses
incurred or to be incurred in connection with the benefit, service or facility
provided or to be provided to one or more of such enterprises.
60\. As far as clause (a) is concerned, SMC is a non-resident. It has, since
2002, a substantial share holding in MSIL and can, therefore, be construed to
be a non-resident AE of MSIL. While it does have a number of 'transactions'
with MSIL on the issue of licensing of IPRs, supply of raw materials, etc. the
question remains whether it has any 'transaction' ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
Page 31 of 45 concerning the AMP expenditure. That brings us to clauses (b)
and (c). They cannot be read disjunctively. Even if resort is had to the
residuary part of clause (b) to contend that the AMP spend of MSIL is "any
other transaction having a bearing" on its "profits, incomes or losses", for a
'transaction' there has to be two parties. Therefore for the purposes of the
'means' part of clause (b) and the 'includes' part of clause (c), the Revenue
has to show that there exists an 'agreement' or 'arrangement' or
'understanding' between MSIL and SMC whereby MSIL is obliged to spend
excessively on AMP in order to promote the brand of SMC. As far as the
legislative intent is concerned, it is seen that certain transactions listed
in the Explanation under clauses (i) (a) to (e) to Section 92B are described
as 'international transaction'. This might be only an illustrative list, but
significantly it does not list AMP spending as one such transaction.
61\. The submission of the Revenue in this regard is: "The mere fact that the
service or benefit has been provided by one party to the other would by itself
constitute a transaction irrespective of whether the consideration for the
same has been paid or remains payable or there is a mutual agreement to not
charge any compensation for the service or benefit." Even if the word
'transaction' is given its widest connotation, and need not involve any
transfer of money or a written agreement as suggested by the Revenue, and even
if resort is had to Section 92F (v) which defines 'transaction' to include
'arrangement', 'understanding' or 'action in concert', 'whether formal or in
writing', it is still incumbent on the Revenue to show the existence of an
'understanding' or an 'arrangement' or 'action in concert' between MSIL and
SMC as regards AMP spend for brand promotion. In other words, for both the
'means' part and the 'includes' part of Section 92B (1) what has to be
definitely shown is the existence of transaction whereby MSIL has been obliged
to incur AMP of a certain level for SMC for the purposes of promoting the
brand of SMC.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 32 of 45
Step wise analysis of statutory provisions
62\. If a step by step analysis is undertaken of Sections 92B to 92F, the sine
qua non for commencing the transfer pricing exercise is to show the existence
of an international transaction. The next step is to determine the price of
such transaction. The third step would be to determine the ALP by applying one
of the five price discovery methods specified in Section 92C. The fourth step
would be to compare the price of the transaction that is shown to exist with
the ALP and make the transfer pricing adjustment by substituting the ALP for
the contract price.
63\. A reading of the heading of Chapter X ["Computation of income from
international transactions having regard to arm's length price"] and Section
92 (1) which states that any income arising from an international transaction
shall be computed having regard to the ALP, Section 92C (1) which sets out the
different methods of determining the ALP, makes it clear that the transfer
pricing adjustment is made by substituting the ALP for the price of the
transaction. To begin with there has to be an international transaction with a
certain disclosed price. The transfer pricing adjustment envisages the
substitution of the price of such international transaction with the ALP.
64\. The transfer pricing adjustment is not expected to be made by deducing
from the difference between the 'excessive' AMP expenditure incurred by the
Assessee and the AMP expenditure of a comparable entity that an international
transaction exists and then proceed to make the adjustment of the difference
in order to determine the value of such AMP expenditure incurred for the AE.
And, yet, that is what appears to have been done by the Revenue in the present
case. It first arrived at the 'bright line' by comparing the AMP expenses
incurred by MSIL with the average percentage of the AMP expenses incurred by
the comparable entities. Since on applying the ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
Page 33 of 45 BLT, the AMP spend of MSIL was found 'excessive' the Revenue
deduced the existence of an international transaction. It then added back the
excess expenditure as the transfer pricing 'adjustment'. This runs counter to
legal position explained in CIT v. EKL Appliances Ltd. (2012) 345 ITR 241
(Del), which required a TPO "to examine the 'international transaction' as he
actually finds the same." In other words the very existence of an
international transaction cannot be a matter for inference or surmise.
65\. As already noticed, the decision in Sony Ericsson has done away with the
BLT as means for determining the ALP of an international transaction involving
AMP expenses.
Revenue's contentions
66\. It is contended by the Revenue that the mere fact that the Indian entity
is engaged in the activity of creation, promotion or maintenance of certain
brands of its foreign AE or for the creation/promotion of new/existing markets
for the AE, is by itself enough to demonstrate that there is an arrangement
with the parent company for this activity. It is urged that merely because
MSIL and SMC do not have an explicit arrangement/agreement on this aspect
cannot lead to the inference that there is no such arrangement or the entire
AMP activity of the Indian entity is unilateral and only for its own benefit.
According to the Revenue, "the only credible test in the context of TP
provisions to determine whether the Indian subsidiary is incurring AMP
expenses unilaterally on its own or at the instance of the AE is to find out
whether an independent party would have also done the same." It is asserted:
"An independent party with a short term agreement with the MNC will not incur
costs which give long term benefits of brand & market development to the other
entity. An independent party will, in such circumstances, carry out the
function of development of markets only when it is adequately remunerated for
the same."
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 34 of 45
67\. Reference is made by Mr. Srivastava to some sample agreements between
Reebok (UK) and Reebok (South Africa) and IC Issacs & Co and BHPC Marketing to
urge that the level of AMP spend is a matter of negotiation between the
parties together with the rate of royalty. It is further suggested that it
might be necessary to examine whether in other jurisdictions the foreign AE
i.e., SMC is engaged in AMP/brand promotion through independent entities or
their subsidiaries without any compensation to them either directly or through
an adjustment of royalty payments.
Absence of a machinery provision
68\. The above submissions proceed purely on surmises and conjectures and if
accepted as such will lead to sending the tax authorities themselves on a
wild-goose chase of what can at best be described as a 'mirage'. First of all,
there has to be a clear statutory mandate for such an exercise. The Court is
unable to find one. To the question whether there is any 'machinery' provision
for determining the existence of an international transaction involving AMP
expenses, Mr. Srivastava only referred to Section 92F (ii) which defines ALP
to mean a price "which is applied or proposed to be applied in a transaction
between persons other than AEs in uncontrolled conditions". Since the
reference is to 'price' and to 'uncontrolled conditions' it implicitly brings
into play the BLT. In other words, it emphasises that where the price is
something other than what would be paid or charged by one entity from another
in uncontrolled situations then that would be the ALP. The Court does not see
this as a machinery provision particularly in light of the fact that the BLT
has been expressly negatived by the Court in Sony Ericsson. Therefore, the
existence of an international transaction will have to be established de hors
the BLT.
69\. There is nothing in the Act which indicates how, in the absence of the
BLT, one can discern the existence of an international transaction as far as
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 35 of 45 AMP expenditure is concerned. The
Court finds considerable merit in the contention of the Assessee that the only
TP adjustment authorised and permitted by Chapter X is the substitution of the
ALP for the transaction price or the contract price. It bears repetition that
each of the methods specified in S.92C (1) is a price discovery method. S.92C
(1) thus is explicit that the only manner of effecting a TP adjustment is to
substitute the transaction price with the ALP so determined. The second
proviso to Section 92C (2) provides a 'gateway' by stipulating that if the
variation between the ALP and the transaction price does not exceed the
specified percentage, no TP adjustment can at all be made. Both Section 92CA,
which provides for making a reference to the TPO for computation of the ALP
and the manner of the determination of the ALP by the TPO, and Section 92CB
which provides for the "safe harbour" rules for determination of the ALP, can
be applied only if the TP adjustment involves substitution of the transaction
price with the ALP. Rules 10B, 10C and the new Rule 10AB only deal with the
determination of the ALP. Thus for the purposes of Chapter X of the Act, what
is envisaged is not a quantitative adjustment but only a substitution of the
transaction price with the ALP.
70\. What is clear is that it is the 'price' of an international transaction
which is required to be adjusted. The very existence of an international
transaction cannot be presumed by assigning some price to it and then deducing
that since it is not an ALP, an 'adjustment' has to be made. The burden is on
the Revenue to first show the existence of an international transaction. Next,
to ascertain the disclosed 'price' of such transaction and thereafter ask
whether it is an ALP. If the answer to that is in the negative the TP
adjustment should follow. The objective of Chapter X is to make adjustments to
the price of an international transaction which the AEs involved may seek to
shift from one jurisdiction to another. An 'assumed' price cannot form the
reason for making an ALP adjustment.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 36 of 45
71\. Since a quantitative adjustment is not permissible for the purposes of a
TP adjustment under Chapter X, equally it cannot be permitted in respect of
AMP expenses either. As already noticed hereinbefore, what the Revenue has
sought to do in the present case is to resort to a quantitative adjustment by
first determining whether the AMP spend of the Assessee on application of the
BLT, is excessive, thereby evidencing the existence of an international
transaction involving the AE. The quantitative determination forms the very
basis for the entire TP exercise in the present case.
72\. As rightly pointed out by the Assessee, while such quantitative
adjustment involved in respect of AMP expenses may be contemplated in the
taxing statutes of certain foreign countries like U.S.A., Australia and New
Zealand, no provision in Chapter X of the Act contemplates such an adjustment.
An AMP TP adjustment to which none of the substantive or procedural provisions
of Chapter X of the Act apply, cannot be held to be permitted by Chapter X. In
other words, with neither the substantive nor the machinery provisions of
Chapter X of the Act being applicable to an AMP TP adjustment, the inevitable
conclusion is that Chapter X as a whole, does not permit such an adjustment.
73\. It bears repetition that the subject matter of the attempted price
adjustment is not the transaction involving the Indian entity and the agencies
to whom it is making payments for the AMP expenses. The Revenue is not joining
issue, the Court was told, that the Indian entity would be entitled to claim
such expenses as revenue expense in terms of Section 37 of the Act. It is not
for the Revenue to dictate to an entity how much it should spend on AMP. That
would be a business decision of such entity keeping in view its exigencies and
its perception of what is best needed to promote its products. The argument of
the Revenue, however, is that while such AMP expense may be wholly and
exclusively for the ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 37 of 45 benefit of the
Indian entity, it also enures to building the brand of the foreign AE for
which the foreign AE is obliged to compensate the Indian entity. The burden of
the Revenue's song is this: an Indian entity, whose AMP expense is
extraordinary (or 'non-routine') ought to be compensated by the foreign AE to
whose benefit also such expense enures. The 'non- routine' AMP spend is taken
to have 'subsumed' the portion constituting the 'compensation' owed to the
Indian entity by the foreign AE. In such a scenario what will be required to
be benchmarked is not the AMP expense itself but to what extent the Indian
entity must be compensated. That is not within the realm of the provisions of
Chapter X.
74\. The problem with the Revenue's approach is that it wants every instance
of an AMP spend by an Indian entity which happens to use the brand of a
foreign AE to be presumed to involve an international transaction. And this,
notwithstanding that this is not one of the deemed international transactions
listed under the Explanation to Section 92B of the Act. The problem does not
stop here. Even if a transaction involving an AMP spend for a foreign AE is
able to be located in some agreement, written (for e.g., the sample agreements
produced before the Court by the Revenue) or otherwise, how should a TPO
proceed to benchmark the portion of such AMP spend that the Indian entity
should be compensated for?
75\. As an analogy, and for no other purpose, in the context of a domestic
transaction involving two or more related parties, reference may be made to
Section 40 A (2) (a) under which certain types of expenditure incurred by way
of payment to related parties is not deductible where the AO "is of the
opinion that such expenditure is excessive or unreasonable having regard to
the fair market value of the goods." In such event, "so much of the
expenditure as is so considered by him to be excessive or unreasonable shall
not be allowed as a deduction." The AO in such an instance deploys ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 38 of 45 the 'best judgment' assessment as a
device to disallow what he considers to be an excessive expenditure. There is
no corresponding 'machinery' provision in Chapter X which enables an AO to
determine what should be the fair 'compensation' an Indian entity would be
entitled to if it is found that there is an international transaction in that
regard. In practical terms, absent a clear statutory guidance, this may
encounter further difficulties. The strength of a brand, which could be
product specific, may be impacted by numerous other imponderables not limited
to the nature of the industry, the geographical peculiarities, economic trends
both international and domestic, the consumption patterns, market behaviour
and so on. A simplistic approach using one of the modes similar to the ones
contemplated by Section 92C may not only be legally impermissible but will
lend itself to arbitrariness. What is then needed is a clear statutory scheme
encapsulating the legislative policy and mandate which provides the necessary
checks against arbitrariness while at the same time addressing the
apprehension of tax avoidance.
76\. As explained by the Supreme Court in CIT v. B.C. Srinivasa Setty (1979)
128 ITR 294 (SC) and PNB Finance Ltd. vs. CIT (2008) 307 ITR 75 (SC) in the
absence of any machinery provision, bringing an imagined international
transaction to tax is fraught with the danger of invalidation. In the present
case, in the absence of there being an international transaction involving AMP
spend with an ascertainable price, neither the substantive nor the machinery
provision of Chapter X are applicable to the transfer pricing adjustment
exercise.
Economic ownership of the brand
77\. The next issue is concerning the economic ownership and legal ownership
of the brand. According to the Revenue, viewing legal ownership as something
distinct from economic ownership "may not be the ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015
Page 39 of 45 right way of looking at things."
78\. It is necessary at this juncture to examine the history of the
relationship between MSIL and SMC. When the licence agreements were originally
entered in 1982, MSIL was known as Maruti Udyog Limited ('MUL') and SMC did
not hold a single share in MUL. In 2003 SMC acquired the controlling interest
in MSIL. There are various models of Suzuki motor cars manufactured by MSIL
and each model is covered by a separate licence agreement. Under these
agreements SMC grants license to MSIL to manufacture that particular car
model; provides technical know-how and information and right to use Suzuki's
patents and technical information. It also gives MSIL the right to use
Suzuki's trade mark and logo on the product. Pursuant to the above agreement,
MSIL has been using the co- brand i.e. Maruti-Suzuki trade mark and logo for
more than 30 years. As already noted, this co-brand cannot be used by SMC and
is not owned by it.
79\. The clauses in the agreement between MSIL and SMC indicate that
permission was granted by SMC to MSIL to use the co-brand 'Maruti- Suzuki'
name and logo. The mere fact that the cars manufactured by MSIL bear the
symbol 'S' is not decisive as the advertisements are of the particular model
of the car with the logo 'Maruti-Suzuki'. The Revenue has been unable to
contradict the submission of MSIL that the co-brand mark 'Maruti-Suzuki' in
fact does not belong to SMC and cannot be used by SMC either in India or
anywhere else. The decision in Sony Ericsson requires that the mark or brand
should belong to the foreign AE. The Revenue also does not deny that as far as
the brand 'Suzuki' is concerned its legal ownership vests with the foreign AE
i.e. SMC. The Revenue proceeds on the basis that the benefit of the economic
ownership also accrues to the foreign AE by way of increased royalty,
increased raw material sales, increased brand value etc. ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 40 of 45
80\. The Revenue is proceeding on a presumption regarding the comparative
benefits to MSIL and SMC as a result of the AMP expenditure incurred by MSIL.
The Revenue is unable to deny that MSIL's expenditure on AMP is only 1.87% of
its total sales whereas SMC's expenditure worldwide on AMP is 7.5% of its
sales. In the circumstances, in the absence of some data, it cannot be simply
asserted that the benefit of MSIL's AMP spend to SMC is not merely incidental.
The Court is unable to accept the assertion of the Revenue that the mere fact
of incurring AMP expenditure should lead to an inference of the existence of
an international transaction.
81\. It must be recalled here that the royalty paid to SMC for use of its logo
on the product manufactured with its technical knowhow is separately subject
to transfer pricing. Likewise, payments for use of patents or copyrights are
separately assessed. What the present appeals are concerned with is only the
AMP expenditure incurred and nothing more. As pointed out by the Revenue the
issue is not about the expenditure incurred by MSIL in engaging Indian third
parties for AMP but the extent to which the AMP spend can be attributed to
enure to the benefit of SMC's brand. This can be a complex exercise and in the
absence of clear guidance under the statute and the rules, can result in
arbitrariness as a result of proceeding on surmises or conjectures. The TPO
will need to access data as regards the strength of the foreign AE's brand and
what it commands in the international market and to what extent the presence
of the brand in the advertisement actually adds to the benefit of the brand
internationally.
82\. Para 6 D of the OECD Guidelines deals with 'Marketing activities
undertaken by enterprises not owning trademarks or trade names'. It contains a
discussion on promotion of trade marks by distributors of branded goods. It
acknowledges the difficulties in determining the extent to which the expenses
have contributed to the success of a product. It is ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 41 of 45 stated:
> "For instance, it can be difficult to determine what advertising and
> marketing expenditures have contributed to the production or revenue, and to
> what degree. It is also possible that a new trademark or one newly
> introduced into a particular market may have no value or little impression
> on the market (or perhaps loses its impact). A dominant market share may to
> some extent be attributable to marketing efforts of a distributor. The value
> and any changes will depend to an extent on how effectively the trademark is
> promoted in the particular market. More fundamentally, in many cases higher
> returns derived from the sale of trademarked products may be due as much to
> the unique characteristics of the product or its high quality as to the
> success of advertising and other promotional expenditures. The actual
> conduct of the parties over a period of years should be given significant
> weight in evaluating the return attributable to marketing activities."
83\. The OECD Guidelines set out broad parameters for determining the
existence of international transaction and for ascertaining the ALP of such
transaction. They may not ipso facto become applicable in situations where no
studies have been conducted on a scientific basis on the behaviour of market
and assessment of brand value.
Incidental benefit to SMC
84\. The Court next deals with the submission of the Revenue that the benefit
to SMC as a result of the MSIL selling its products with the co- brand
'Maruti-Suzuki' is not merely incidental. The decision in Sony Ericsson
acknowledges that an expenditure cannot be disallowed wholly or partly because
its incidentally benefits the third party. This was in context on Section
57(1) of the Act. Reference was made to the decision in Sassoon J David & Co
Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT (1979) 118 ITR 26 (SC). The Supreme Court in the said
decision emphasised that the expression 'wholly and exclusively' used in
Section 10 (2) (xv) of the Act did not mean 'necessarily'. It said: "The fact
that somebody other than the Assessee is ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 42
of 45 also benefitted by the expenditure should not come in the way of an
expenditure being allowed by way of a deduction under Section 10 (2) (xv) of
the Act if it satisfies otherwise the tests laid down by the law."
85\. The OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, para 7.13 emphasises that there
should not be any automatic inference about an AE receiving an entity group
service only because it gets an incidental benefit for being part of a larger
concern and not to any specific activity performed. Even paras 133 and 134 of
the Sony Ericsson judgment makes it clear that AMP adjustment cannot be made
in respect of a full-risk manufacturer.
MSIL's higher operating margins
86\. In Sony Ericsson it was held that if an Indian entity has satisfied the
TNMM i.e. the operating margins of the Indian enterprise are much higher than
the operating margins of the comparable companies, no further separate
adjustment for AMP expenditure was warranted. This is also in consonance with
Rule 10B which mandates only arriving at the net profit by comparing the
profit and loss account of the tested party with the comparable. As far as
MSIL is concerned, its operating profit margin is 11.19% which is higher than
that of the comparable companies whose profit margin is 4.04%. Therefore,
applying the TNMM method it must be stated that there is no question of TP
adjustment on account of AMP expenditure.
Allowable expenditure under Section 37 (1)
87\. The decision in Sony Ericsson also holds that "the issue of arm's length
price per se does not arise when deduction under Section 37(1) is claimed."
Further the decision of an Assessee whether or not to incur an expenditure
cannot be substituted and disallowed by the AO. In the context of the AMP
expenses incurred by manufacturer exclusively for its own business, it is
arguable that once such expense is allowed under Section 37(1) of the Act, it
cannot be disallowed for the purpose of Chapter X by attributing some ITA
Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 43 of 45 part of the said expenditure to
promoting the brand of the foreign AE. The key words as far as Section 37(1)
is concerned are 'wholly and exclusively'.
88\. However, the Court does not consider it necessary to further dwell on
this aspect since it is not required for the answers to the central questions
arising in this case.
Answers to the questions framed
89\. To answer the questions framed by the orders dated 29th October 2014 and
10th September 2015 in ITA Nos. 110 of 2014 and 710 of 2015 respectively:
(i) Question No.1 stands answered by the judgment in Sony Ericsson viz., that
the TPO could have examined the question whether AMP expenses by themselves
constitute an international transaction in the absence of any specific
reference being made in that behalf by the AO.
(ii) Question No.2 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. In other words, it is held that AMP expenses incurred
by MSIL cannot be treated and categorised as an international transaction
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
of the DRP, AO and TPO are hereby set aside. The appeals are allowed in the
above terms, but with no orders as to costs.
S.MURALIDHAR, J VIBHU BAKHRU, J December 11, 2015 mg/dn ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 45 of 45
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
                   Advocate.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX            ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. G.C. Srivastava, Advocate.
           CORAM:
           JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                                  JUDGEMENT
          %                         11.12.2015
    Dr. S.Muralidhar,J.:
    Introduction
1\. These are two appeals by the Assessee, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. ('MSIL'),
under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('Act'). ITA ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 1 of 45 No.110 of 2014 is directed against an order dated 2nd
August 2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ('ITAT') in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for the Assessment Year ('AY') 2005-06. ITA No.710 of 2015 is
an appeal against the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No. 5120/Del/2010 for the AY 2006-07.
2\. These appeals concern the issue of determination of arm's length price
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
                   Advocate.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX            ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. G.C. Srivastava, Advocate.
           CORAM:
           JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                                  JUDGEMENT
          %                         11.12.2015
    Dr. S.Muralidhar,J.:
    Introduction
1\. These are two appeals by the Assessee, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. ('MSIL'),
under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('Act'). ITA ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 1 of 45 No.110 of 2014 is directed against an order dated 2nd
August 2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ('ITAT') in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for the Assessment Year ('AY') 2005-06. ITA No.710 of 2015 is
an appeal against the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No. 5120/Del/2010 for the AY 2006-07.
2\. These appeals concern the issue of determination of arm's length price
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
                   Advocate.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX            ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. G.C. Srivastava, Advocate.
           CORAM:
           JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                                  JUDGEMENT
          %                         11.12.2015
    Dr. S.Muralidhar,J.:
    Introduction
1\. These are two appeals by the Assessee, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. ('MSIL'),
under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('Act'). ITA ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 1 of 45 No.110 of 2014 is directed against an order dated 2nd
August 2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ('ITAT') in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for the Assessment Year ('AY') 2005-06. ITA No.710 of 2015 is
an appeal against the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No. 5120/Del/2010 for the AY 2006-07.
2\. These appeals concern the issue of determination of arm's length price
('ALP') of the advertisement, marketing and sales promotion ('AMP') expenses
incurred by the Assessee, MSIL.
3\. By the impugned order dated 2nd August 2013, the ITAT followed its
decision in LG Electronics India Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT 2013 22 ITR (Trib) I and
held that the Assessing Officer ('AO') was entitled to make a transfer pricing
adjustment under Chapter X of the Act in respect of the AMP expenditure
incurred by MSIL on the ground that such expenditure created brand value and
marketing intangibles in respect of the brands/trademarks belonging to MSIL's
Associated Enterprise ('AE'), Suzuki Motor Corporation, Japan (hereinafter
'SMC').
Background facts
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
                   Senior Advocates with Ms. Mehak Gupta,
                   Advocate.
                                  versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX            ..... Respondent
                        Through: Mr. G.C. Srivastava, Advocate.
           CORAM:
           JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                                  JUDGEMENT
          %                         11.12.2015
    Dr. S.Muralidhar,J.:
    Introduction
1\. These are two appeals by the Assessee, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. ('MSIL'),
under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ('Act'). ITA ITA Nos.110/2014 &
710/2015 Page 1 of 45 No.110 of 2014 is directed against an order dated 2nd
August 2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ('ITAT') in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for the Assessment Year ('AY') 2005-06. ITA No.710 of 2015 is
an appeal against the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No. 5120/Del/2010 for the AY 2006-07.
2\. These appeals concern the issue of determination of arm's length price
('ALP') of the advertisement, marketing and sales promotion ('AMP') expenses
incurred by the Assessee, MSIL.
3\. By the impugned order dated 2nd August 2013, the ITAT followed its
decision in LG Electronics India Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT 2013 22 ITR (Trib) I and
held that the Assessing Officer ('AO') was entitled to make a transfer pricing
adjustment under Chapter X of the Act in respect of the AMP expenditure
incurred by MSIL on the ground that such expenditure created brand value and
marketing intangibles in respect of the brands/trademarks belonging to MSIL's
Associated Enterprise ('AE'), Suzuki Motor Corporation, Japan (hereinafter
'SMC').
Background facts
under Section 92B of the Act.
(iii) Since answer to Question No.2 is in favour of the Assessee, the question
of the TPO making any transfer pricing adjustment in respect of such
transaction Chapter X does not arise and, therefore, question (3) is answered
in the negative and in favour of the Assessee and against the Revenue.
(iv) In view of the answer to Question No.2, Question No.4 does not arise for
consideration.
ITA Nos.110/2014 & 710/2015 Page 44 of 45
(v) Question No.5 is answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the Assessee
and against the Revenue. It is held that the ITAT was not right in directing a
fresh benchmarking comparative analysis to be undertaken by the TPO in view of
the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT in LG Electronics India Pvt.
Ltd.
90\. The impugned order dated 2nd August 2013 passed by the ITAT in ITA
No.5237/Del/2010 for AY 2005-06 and the order dated 24th August 2015 passed by
the ITAT in ITA No. 5120/Del/2010 for AY 2006-07, and the corresponding orders
