Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Landbase India Ltd., Gurgaon vs Dcit, New Delhi on 26 August, 2019
                    INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                       DELHI BENCH "D": NEW DELHI
            BEFORE SMT BEENA A PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                                      AND
           SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                ITA Nos.                         Assessment Year
             4536/Del/2009                           2005-06
             4560/Del/2011                           2005-06
             653/Del/2011                            2007-08
             4098/Del/2011                           2008-09
             1516/Del/2014                           2009-10
             4998/Del/2015                           2010-11
             4999/Del/2015                           2011-12
         Landbase India Ltd,                 The Deputy Commissioner of
                                       Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                     Income Tax,
    Centre, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi                  Circle-4(1),
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
              (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                         Assessment Year
             5582/Del/2010                           2004-05
             4721/Del/2009                           2005-06
     The Deputy Commissioner of                  Landbase India Ltd,
                                       Vs.
             Income Tax,                     25, Basant Lok, Community
              Circle-4(1),                      Centre, Vasant Vihar,
              New Delhi                              New Delhi
                                                 PAN: AAACI0053F
                                                                          Page | 1
               (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                           Assessment Year
             1030/Del/2019                             2001-02
             1031/Del/2019                             2003-04
             138/Del/2016                              2012-13
         Landbase India Ltd,                  The Assistant Commissioner
                                        Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                      of Income Tax
    Centre, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi                   Circle-15(1),
          PAN: AAACL0053F                                New Delhi
              (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                             ITA No. 4849/Del/2011
                            (Assessment Year: 2005-06)
    The Assistant Commissioner of                 Landbase India Ltd,
                                        Vs.
             Income Tax,                      25, Basant Lok, Community
             Circle-15(1),                     Centre, Vasant Vihar, New
              New Delhi                                    Delhi
                                                   PAN: AAACL0053F
              (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
             Assessee by :                      Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                Ms. Tejasvi Jain, CA
                                                 Ms Somya Jain, CA
              Revenue by:                     Shri J. K. Mishra, CIT DR
                                           Smt Naina Soin Kapil, Sr. DR
            Date of Hearing                         28/05/2019
         Date of pronouncement                      26/08/2019
                                                                           Page | 2
                                        ORDER
PER BENCH.
1\. These are the appeals in case of Landbase India Limited (Assessee) for AY
2001-02 to AY 2011-12 involving some common issues. These appeals were argued
together and therefore they are disposed of by this common order.
2\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
1030/Del/2019 for the Assessment Year 2001-02 against the order of The
Commissioner Of Income Tax (Appeals) - 5, New Delhi [CIT (A)] dated
31/12/2018-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and circumstances of the case and in law in
upholding the action of assessing officer in making addition of Rs.
1,37,71,043 on account of allowance of depreciation on golf- course as
"building" as against the same being considered as "plant and machinery" by
the appellant.
1.1 That the CIT (A)/assessing officer erred on facts and circumstances of the
case and in law in not appreciating that classification of golf course could
not be changed in subsequent year when claim of depreciation @ 25% on golf
course as „plant‟ stood allowed/ accepted in the past assessment years, i.e.,
1998-99 to 2000-01 and succeeding assessment years, i.e., 2006-07 to 2009-10.
1.2 That the CIT (A)/assessing officer erred on facts and circumstances of the
case and in law in not appreciating that the classification of block of asset
which has been allowed/accepted and merely carried forward from earlier years
cannot be modified in current year 1.3 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and
circumstances of the case and in law in holding that golf course has not
manufactured or produced anything so as to classify it as a „plant and
machinery‟.
2\. Without prejudice, if the golf course is treated as „building‟, the
assessing officer be directed to re-compute depreciation admissible under
section 32(1) (ii) of the Act with reference to revised written down value of
golf course in subsequent years."
Page | 3
3\. The appellant is a company engaged, inter alia, in the business of running
of golf course, construction of hotel and sale of merchandise. During the
previous year relevant to the assessment year 2001-02, the appellant filed
return of income on 30.10.2001 declaring loss of Rs. 20,72,84,983/-. The
appellant derived substantial income from operating and running of the golf
course. Assessment was originally completed under section 143(3) of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") vide order dated 29.03.2004 assessing the loss of
the appellant at Rs. 20,71,55,977/- after making certain disallowances.
Thereafter, reassessment proceedings were initiated under section 147, vide
notice dated 30.10.2006, issued under section 148, purportedly on the basis of
certain audit objection, which was completed vide order dated 24.12.2007
passed under section 148 r.w.s 143(3) after making further disallowances. On
further appeal, the Commissioner of Income-Tax(Appeals) ["CIT(A)"], vide order
dated 22.05.2009, after rejecting the grounds challenging the validity of
reassessment proceedings, was pleased to allow the appeal in favour of
appellant on merits. Against the aforesaid order of LD CIT (A), the Department
preferred further appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi. The
appellant also challenged the action of LD CIT (A) in upholding the validity
of reassessment proceedings. ITAT , vide order dated 15.06.2016, inter-alia,
restored the issue whether depreciation is admissible @25% as plant or @10% as
building, to the file of the assessing officer for de-novo consideration and
to examine the details of construction on the 300 acres of land converting it
into a golf course, which were not filed before the assessing officer in the
first round of proceedings
4\. Pursuant to the aforesaid order, LD assessing officer passed order dated
29.12.2017 under section 254/148/143(3) of the Act giving effect to the said
order of the Tribunal. In the said order, the assessing officer, after
considering the entire material available on record, reiterated the findings
given in original assessment and allowed depreciation on golf course @ 10% by
treating the same as „building‟. On further appeal against the said order, the
ld CIT(A), vide order dated 31.12.2018 upheld the order of the ld assessing
officer restricting depreciation on golf course @ 10%. The CIT(A) held that no
doubt the assessee is generating revenue from the players for Page | 4 playing
golf and allowing its golf course, but it cannot be said that the assessee has
manufactured or produced anything. Thus, assessee is in appeal before us.
5\. The ld AR submitted that aforesaid action of the assessing
officer/CIT(A)in restricting the depreciation to 10% is bad in law and not
sustainable for the reasons elaborated hereunder:
a) Tribunal vide order dated 15.06.2016 merely remanded/remitted the matter to
AO for fresh consideration i. As stated supra, in the first round of
proceedings, the Hon‟ble Tribunal restored the issue whether depreciation is
admissible @25% as plant or @10% as building, to the file of the assessing
officer for de-novo consideration and to examine the details of construction
on the 300 acres of land converting it into a golf course, which were not
filed before the assessing officer in the first round of proceedings. The
relevant extract of the findings of the Tribunal are reproduced hereunder:
"45. In the second part of above operative para, the ld. CIT (A) held that the
ratio of the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Anand
Theatre is not applicable and then jump to a conclusion that the business of
the assessee is to invite players for playing the golf and charging the fee
for that and thus the field so prepared was a business operated used by the
assessee for carrying on its business of playing golf. In the last lines,
without specifically pointing out as to whether the golf course that is a
piece of land with many levels of undulation, holes, small ponds etc can be
categorized as a plant and machinery and not as a building. The ld. CIT (A)
jumped to a conclusion that the assessee's claim of depreciation @ 25% is
allowed which is not a proper and justified approach for a quasi-judicial
authority. We may point out that golf course has not been categorized in the
schedule of depreciation and the main dispute between the assessee and the
revenue is that the Page | 5 assessee is seeking to place the golf course in
the category of plant and machinery whereas the Revenue wants to treat the
same as building.
46\. At this juncture, we may point out that we are not in agreement with the
conclusion drawn by the ld. CIT(A) that a piece of land having some
landscaping for playing golf such as various level undulation, holes, small
ponds etc construed a super structure which can be categorized as a plant and
machinery. If this view is accepted then every landscaping having some special
features for the purpose of its intended use would become plant and machinery
and every construction of building for the purpose of sports would be
converted into plant and machinery. It is pertinent to note that for creation
of golf course, landscaping is done for in various levels and some holes,
ponds and walking path is created but in our humble understanding this kind of
piece of land converted into a golf course by creating some specialized
facilities for playing golf cannot be put in the category of plant and
machinery.
47\. In view of above, we have no hesitation to hold that the ld. CIT (A)
granted relief to the assessee without any basis and without arriving to a
conclusion as to whether golf course is a plant and machinery or building.
Therefore, conclusion of the ld. CIT (A) is not sustainable as we are unable
to see any basis for the factual observations noted by the ld. CIT (A) for
putting the golf course in the category of plant. Since the issue has not been
adjudicated by the ld. CIT(A) in a proper manner, therefore, this issue is
restored to the file of the AO for a fresh adjudication after affording due
opportunity of being heard to the assessee and without being prejudiced from
earlier orders and our observations in this order.
Page | 6
48\. We may also point out that to support the case of the AO, the ld. CIT-DR
has placed reliance on plethora of decisions including the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Anand Theatre [supra], CIT Vs. Gwalior
Rayon Silk Mfg. Mills 196 ITR 149 [SC] and decision of Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi in the case of Moradabad Toll Road Co. Vs. ACIT [2014] 52 Taxmann.com 21
[Delhi] to establish that golf course is not a plant and machinery and it is
to be categorized as a building and on the other hand, the ld. AR has placed
reliance on the case of decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT
Vs. Karnataka Power Corpn. 247 ITR 268 [SC], Scientific Engineering House P.
Ltd Vs. CIT 157 ITR 86 [SC] and decision in the case of Victory ITA No. 3549 &
4847/Del/2009 CO No. 328/Del/2009 & 111/2010 Aqua Farm Ltd 61 Taxmann.com 166
[SC] and plethora of decision to support the case of the assessee that golf
course is a plant and machinery and it is not a building. Interestingly, no
cited decision relied by both the parties are related to golf course.
Therefore, facts regarding this issue have to be dealt in respect to golf
course of 300 acres land and how it became plant and machinery attracting 25%
depreciation. The AO has to examine these details to ascertain the issue
between the parties as stated above. We also note that the assessee in its
written submissions before the authorities below as well as before the
Tribunal has submitted the details of construction on the 300 acres of land
converting it into a golf course, but these details have not been submitted
before the AO and the AO could not get an opportunity to verify and examine
the same. Therefore, in our considered opinion, this issue requires detailed
verification and examination at the end of the AO after affording due
opportunity of hearing to the assessee and without being prejudiced from the
earlier Page | 7 assessment and first appellate order. Needless to say that
the AO would examine all material facts on this issue and ITA No. 3549 &
4847/Del/2009 CO No. 328/Del/2009 & 111/2010 after considering the mandate of
the relevant provisions of the Act as well as the ratio of decisions relied
upon by both the parties shall decide the issue afresh in accordance with law.
Consequently, Ground No 4 and 4.1 for A.Y 2001-02 and Ground No. 3 & 3.1 for
A.Y 2003-04 of the Revenue are allowed for statistical purposes by restoring
the same to the file of the AO. (Emphasis supplied)"
ii. He further submitted that on perusal of the aforesaid, it will kindly be
appreciated that the Tribunal, vide para 47, merely restored the issue of
depreciation on golf course as "plant" or "building" to the file of the
assessing officer for fresh adjudication. The Tribunal categorically observed,
"....this issue is restored to the file of the AO for a fresh adjudication
after affording due opportunity of being heard to the assessee and without
being prejudiced from earlier orders and our observations in this order".
iii. This was done considering the fact that details of construction of golf
course were not considered by the assessing officer in the first round. He
submitted that Tribunal simply set-aside/ remitted the issue to the file of
the assessing officer to decide it afresh. In these circumstances, any prima-
facie observation/finding recorded by the Tribunal in the earlier para, which
was, in fact, based on limited examination of details of construction of golf-
course, it is respectfully submitted, stood obliterated for all intents and
purposes. He placed reliance in this regard is placed on the judgment of the
Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Hukam Singh v. State of Haryana and
Another: 2019 SCC Online SC 159, wherein the Apex Court clarified similar
issue and held that once the matter is remanded for fresh consideration, any
observation in the Page | 8 judgment stands obliterated and the authorities
are required to consider the issue afresh. In that case, review petition was
filed before the Hon‟ble Court called upon it to clarify the meaning and
purport of the following passage from its earlier ruling in the case of
Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. vs. UDAL (2013) 14 SCC
506:
> "32. We also find merit in the argument of the learned counsel for the
> landowners that while fixing market value of the acquired land the learned
> Single Judge committed serious error by not considering an important piece
> of evidence i.e. Ext. PW 9/A dated 23-11- 1999 vide which HSIIDC had
> allotted land to M/s. Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (P) Ltd. At the
> rate of Rs. 1254.18 per square yard. Although, this document was produced
> before the Reference Court but the same was not taken into consideration
> while determining the amount of compensation. The same error has been
> repeated in the impugned judgment. If this document were taken into
> consideration, then market value of the acquired land would come to Rs. 60,
> 69,360 per acre. By making deduction of 50% towards development cost and
> granting annual increase of 12/15% (cumulative), market value of the land
> will be much higher than Rs. 37, 40,000 per acre.
> 33\. In view of the above conclusions, we do not consider it necessary to
> deal with the other points argued by the learned counsel for the
> parties/interveners and feel that the ends of justice will be served by
> setting aside the impugned judgment and remitting the matters to the High
> Court for fresh disposal of the appeals and cross- objections filed by the
> parties subject to the rider that the State Government/HSIIDC shall pay the
> balance of Rs.
> Page | 9 37,40,000 to the landowners along with other statutory benefits.
34\. In the result, the appeals are allowed, the impugned judgment is set
aside and the matter is remitted to the High Court for fresh disposal of the
appeals filed by the parties under Section 54 of the Act as also the cross-
objections. The parties shall be free to urge all points in support of their
respective cause and the High Court shall decide the matter uninfluenced by
the observations contained in this judgment."(Emphasis supplied) iv. He
further submitted that Apex Court, while clarifying the afore-extracted
observations made in its earlier judgment, negated the submission of the
applicant that in line with the observations made at paragraph 32 of the
judgment in the case of Haryana State Industrial Development Corpn (supra),
„the market value of land ought to be higher than Rs. 37,40,000 per acre‟. The
Court held that since the matter had been remitted to the High Court for fresh
adjudication of appeals/ cross- objections with the specific direction that
the High Court shall not be influenced by the observations made by the Supreme
Court, such passing observation at paragraph 32 could not be held as binding.
The Court observed that:
> "8. As regards the last submission, paragraph 32 of the decision in Haryana
> State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd.2 recorded the submission of
> the learned counsel that on the basis of sale deed Ext.PW 9/A, the value
> ought to be higher than Rs. 37,40,000/- per acre. The matter was not finally
> decided by this Court and was remitted in paragraph 34 for fresh
> consideration "uninfluenced by the observations contained in this Page | 10
> judgment". We do not agree with the submission that the landowners were
> assured of minimum compensation at the level of Rs. 37,40,000/- per acre. In
> fact, in tune with the observation that fresh consideration is uninfluenced
> by any of the observations contained in the judgment, the matter was left
> open and the assessment had to be done de novo. We, therefore, reject the
> submission."
(Emphasis supplied) v. Similarly, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of
Kanaklata v. State (NCT of Delhi) and Others: 6 SCC 617, held that if an order
passed by the court is set aside, the observations and findings recorded
therein also get obliterated for all intents and purposes. The Court further
held that in some cases, the Court makes the position clear by stating that
any such observation shall not influence the court concerned while making a
fresh order the same to put the matter beyond the pale of any controversy. The
Court held as under:
> "5. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at some length. It is
> true that the trial court had while discharging the accused persons under
> the Special Act mentioned above, made certain observations about the alleged
> misuse of the provisions of the said Act by unscrupulous elements and also
> certain suggestions for remedying that situation. It is also true that the
> trial court had come to the conclusion that there is no real basis for it to
> frame any charge against the accused persons under the said Act. But it is
> equally true that while setting aside that order and directing a fresh order
> on the question of charge, the High Court has clearly mentioned that the
> trial court shall remain uninfluenced by the observation made in its earlier
> order. That observation is, in the opinion of Page | 11 the High Court, a
> sufficient safeguard against any possible prejudice to the complainant
> appellant herein making transfer of the case from the Court at Rohini to any
> other court unnecessary.
6\. Now in the ordinary course if an order passed by the court is set aside,
the observations and findings recorded therein also get obliterated for all
intents and purposes. So also if the High Court makes the position clear that
any such observation shall not influence the court concerned while making a
fresh order the same should ordinarily put the matter beyond the pale of any
controversy. Having said that, there may still be situations where the nature
of the observations made by the court concerned create a reasonable
apprehension in the mind of the litigant that the court has so committed
itself to a given approach or thought process that it may not be possible for
it to retrace its steps to take a fair and non-partisan view in the matter
7\. The present appears to be one such case where despite the safeguards
provided by the High Court's observations, the apprehension of the complainant
continues to subsist. We do not think that such apprehension is wholly
misconceived nor can it be dubbed as forum shopping in disguise. The earlier
order passed by the trial court is so strongly worded that it could in all
likelihood give rise to a reasonable apprehension in the mind of the
complainant which cannot be lightly brushed aside. We must hasten to add that
we are not in the least suggesting that the Presiding Officer of the trial
court is totally incapable of adopting a fair approach while passing a fresh
order but then the question is not whether the Judge is biased or incapable of
rising above the earlier observations made by her. The question is whether the
apprehension of the Page | 12 complainant is reasonable for us to direct a
transfer. Justice must not only be done but must seem to have been done. A
lurking suspicion in the mind of the complainant will leave him with a
brooding sense of having suffered injustice not because he had no case, but
because the Presiding Officer had a preconceived notion about it. On that test
we consider the present to be a case where the High Court ought to have
directed a transfer. Inasmuch as it did not do so, we have no option but to
interfere and direct transfer of the case to another court". (emphasis
supplied) vi. Similarly, in the present case, the Tribunal, he submitted,
simply set-aside/ remitted the issue to the file of the assessing officer for
fresh consideration and thus, any prima-facie observation/finding recorded by
the Tribunal based on limited examination of details of construction of golf
course, stood obliterated for all intents and purposes. The Tribunal, in para
47, in fact, clarified the position to put the matter beyond any doubt by
observing, "......without being prejudiced from earlier orders and our
observations in this order".
b) Classification as "plant" accepted in initial year(s) - AO had no
jurisdiction to subsequently change classification He submitted that next
issue that arises in the present appeal is whether amount spent on
construction of golf course is to be, for the purpose of depreciation,
regarded as "plant", as contended by the appellant or as "building", as
contended by the Revenue. It is, at the outset, the fundamental submission of
the appellant that classification and acceptance of "golf course" as "plant"
in the initial year(s) operates as res-judicata and binds both the assessee
and the Revenue and consequently, the assessing officer had no jurisdiction,
whatsoever, to change classification in subsequent year(s), including the year
under Page | 13 consideration. He furthered his arguments in terms of section
32(1) (ii) of the Act, depreciation is allowed on the "written down value" of
any "block of assets". The expression "block of assets" is defined in section
2(11) of the Act to mean a group of assets falling within a class of assets in
respect of which same percentage of depreciation is admissible. The expression
"written down value" is defined in section 43(6) (c) of the Act to mean actual
cost in year of acquisition. For every subsequent year(s), "written down
value" at the beginning of the previous year, increased by actual cost of
assets acquired during the year and reduced by consideration received on
transfer of asset during the year. He submitted that under section 43(6)(c) of
the Act, in all subsequent year(s), subsequent to the year of acquisition of
asset, "written down value" necessarily means "written down value" of the
block at the beginning of the previous year, i.e., at the closing of the
immediately earlier year. Once an asset enters a particular block, neither the
assessee nor the Revenue has any mandate/ authority to subsequently, remove
the asset from a particular block and reclassify/ re- enter the same in some
other block. To put it simply, once an asset is classified as block of
"plant", then, in subsequent year, the same asset cannot be classified as
"building" or vice versa. Pertinently, the block concept of depreciation was
introduced by the Taxation Laws (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act,
1986 with effect from 1-4-1988. Circular No. 469 dated 23 September 1986: 162
ITR (St) 21 explained the scheme of depreciation on block of assets. It was
clarified that in the block concept, individual identity of the asset is lost,
and depreciation is allowed with reference to the entire block. In view of the
above, he submitted that depreciation is to be allowed on the block of asset
at specified percentage on the written down value of the block of asset. The
written down value of the block of asset is the value of block of asset at the
beginning of the previous year as increased or decreased by the addition or
Page | 14 deletion in the previous year. Hence, once an asset goes into the
block of asset and the same is allowed by the assessing officer in the
previous year, the asset loses its individual identity and become part of the
block. In the succeeding years, the assessing officer has to allow
depreciation on the block of asset as being brought forward.
c) Golf course accepted as "plant" in earlier years - not permissible to
change block in current year He submitted that the golf course, was
constructed in previous year relevant to assessment year 1998-99, wherein
total cost of Rs. 20,57,09,950 (excluding cost of land) was capitalized and
depreciation was claimed thereon @25% under section 32(1) of the Act. Further,
expenditure on its improvement was incurred in subsequent assessment years and
the total cost of the golf course amounted to Rs. 22, 57, 78,036. He referred
to paper book for year-wise details refer 62-70 of Paper Book-Vol I). The cost
of golf course, it is submitted, comprised of various equipment and items of
plant and machinery like irrigation system water tanks including water
sprinklers, technical knowhow, bunkers, etc. The entire cost incurred on
construction of golf course was capitalized as a separate block of plant and
machinery and accordingly, depreciation at the applicable/prescribed rate of
25% was being claimed consistently since assessment year 1998-99 onwards.
Following the aforesaid consistent method, the appellant had, during the
relevant assessment year 2001-02, claimed depreciation @25% amounting to Rs.
2,42,64,813 on the opening WDV written down value („WDV‟) of Rs. 8,91,80,816
and addition of Rs. 1,57,56,876 made during the relevant assessment year. He
referred to page 39 of Paper book-Vol I. He submitted that claim of
depreciation @25% has been allowed to the appellant in earlier as well
subsequent assessment years, as per details tabulated hereunder:
Page | 15 Assessm Return Assessment Remarks ent year filed Particulars 1998-99
28.11.199 Order u/s 143(3) 1st year, claim accepted 8 dated 19.3.2001 by the
assessing officer under section 143(3), as under:
                                               -   Refer        Tax     Audit
                                                   Report for A.Y. 98-
                                                   99
                                               -   Assessment           order
                                                   accepting return
    1999-00    30.12.199   Return processed 2nd         year,     claim     of
               9           u/s 143(1) vide depreciation                 stood
                           intimation    dated accepted, as under:
                           13.11.2000          -   Depreciation
                                                   claimed in return
                                               -   Tax Audit Report
                                               -   Intimation              u/s
                                                   143(1)
    2000-01    28.11.200   Order u/s 143(3) 3rd          year,        claimed
               0           dated 28.3.2003     allowed           by        the
                                               assessing         officer    in
                                               regular assessment as
                                               under:
                                               -   Depreciation
                                                   claimed in return
                                               -   Tax Audit Report
                                                                       Page | 16
                                              -    Assessment             u/s
                                                  143(3)
                                             Reassessment
                                             proceedings
                                             subsequently            initiated
                                             on     a     different    issue,
                                             were quashed by ITAT
                                             vide         order        dated
                                             21.05.2015.
    2001-02   30.10.200   Order u/s 143(3) 4th          year    of     claim,
              1           dated 29.3.2004    allowed        originally     by
                                             the assessing officer.
                                             Subsequently, the case
                                             was reopened and the
                                             issue was set aside by
                                             the Tribunal vide order
                                             dated 15.6.2016 for de-
                                             novo consideration.
    2002-03   31.10.200   Return processed 5th          year,   claim       of
              2           u/s 143(1) vide depreciation                  stood
                          intimation   dated accepted, as under:
                          27.2.2003          as under:
                                             -    Depreciation
                                                  claimed in return
                                             -    Tax Audit Report
                                             -    Intimation             u/s
                                                                       Page | 17
                                                        143(1)
      2003-04     27.11.200   Order u/s 143(3) 6th year of claim. The
                  3           dated 28.2.2006    case was re-opened and
                                                 the issue was set aside
                                                 by the Tribunal vide
                                                 order dated 15.6.2016
                                                 for               denovo
                                                 consideration.
He further submitted that , in regular assessment under section 143(3) vide
order dated 29.03.2004 for assessment year 2001-02, the claim of depreciation
was accepted after duly considering the replies dated February‟ 2004 and
15.3.2004 filed by the appellant. He submitted that vide letter filed in
February 2004, the appellant furnished detailed break-up of additions to golf
course (refer pages 112-118 of Paper book - Vol I). He referred that Vide
letter dated 15th March‟ 2004, the appellant certified that no depreciation
has been claimed on the value of land on which golf course has been
constructed (refer page 119-122 of the Paper book - Vol I); he also referred
to Opinion dated 22.4.2002 was filed during the assessment proceedings in
support of claim of depreciation on golf course (refer pages 71-73 of paper
book - Vol I). He therefore submitted that on n perusal of the aforesaid
details/ documents, it will, be appreciated that the assessing officer, after
due application of mind and after duly considering the exhaustive details/
documents furnished by the appellant, agreed with the claims and therefore,
accepted the claim of depreciation on golf course @ 25% in the original
assessment order. On perusal of the above, it may be noted that classification
and claim of depreciation @ 25% on golf course as "plant" stood allowed/ Page
| 18 accepted in the past assessment years. It was, thus, not open to the
assessing officer to depart from the aforesaid classification and was bound to
allow depreciation on golf course as plant, as claimed by the appellant.
d) Golf course - allowed as "plant" in subsequent years 2006-07 to 2009-
10
He further submitted that the ld CIT(A) in assessment years 2006- 07, 2007-08,
2008-09 and 2009-10, while allowing the appeal of the appellant on the issue
of depreciation on golf course, directed the same to be treated as "plant".
Most importantly, the Revenue‟s appeals against the aforesaid orders of the
CIT(A) has been dismissed by the Hon‟ble Tribunal vide separate orders dated
2.5.2016, 2.5.2016 and 1.8.2018 for assessment years 2006-07, 2008-09 and
2007-08 and 2009-10 respectively, though on the ground of low tax effect
[refer pages 279-286 of Paper book-Vol-II]. Be that as it may, it will thus,
kindly be appreciated that the order of the CIT(A) for assessment years
2006-07, 2007-08, 2008-09 and 2009-10, directing the golf course to be treated
as "plant" attained finality. Thus according to him the claim of depreciation
on golf course as "plant" stands accepted in assessment years 1998-99 to
2000-01, 2002-03 and 2006-07 to 2009-10. Therefore he submitted that it is
totally absurd to take a different position in some of the middle assessment
years, more so, when that would be totally contrary to the fundamental
principle of depreciation being allowed on the WDV of the relevant block.
e) He further referred to several Judicial Precedents to support his
contentions.
i. He first referred to decision of Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
DCIT v. Jaypee Greens Ltd. : ITA Nos. 3545 to 3547/Del/2009, wherein on
exactly similar facts, the Tribunal considering golf course as a plant, was
pleased to allow Page | 19 depreciation @25% observing that the assessing
officer has himself allowed depreciation at that rate in the past [refer pages
33-38 of case laws paper book]. He submitted that in that case, the assessee
was engaged in the business of running and operating a golf course in Greater
Noida on which the assessee claimed depreciation @ 25%. The assessing officer
held that golf course and also hospitality services is not covered in the
block of 'plant', but it is covered in the asset 'building' which is used by
the hotels for hospitality services on which the depreciation @20% is
allowable. Hence, the assessing officer rejected the assessee's claim of
depreciation @25% for assessment year 2002-03 and 2003-04 and substituted it
for 20%. For assessment year 2005-06, the AO allowed depreciation applicable
for the cost of building @10% and rejected the claim of @25%. On further
appeal, the CIT(A) decided the issue in favour of the assessee holding as
under:
> "2.3................Rival contentions have carefully been considered.
> ......... The second question arises is if the Golf Course in itself can be
> treated as a 'plant' or not. In this regard, I agree with the ld. AR of the
> appellant that the Golf course is a specialized superstructure constructed
> on the land with various levels of undulation, hotels, small ponds, etc.,
> which have been created as per the rules of the game of the Golf. It is
> certainly a specialized professional requirement for playing the Golf on the
> piece of land. Therefore, cost of creating such technical requirement will
> certainly make the field of Golf Course as a 'plant' only.
Although the various courts citations relied upon by the ld., ARs of the
appellant are not directly applicable to the facts of the case but there is an
oblique reference for considering the Golf Course as a 'plant' only. It is
also appreciated that the Golf Course in the Page | 20 appellant's own case
has been treated as a 'plant' in the assessment year 2001-02 also by the
Assessing Officer himself. It has also come to my notice that the issue of
treating the Golf course as a 'plant' has not been disputed in most of the
cases which are doing the business of running the Golf Course. As far as the
reliance on the various courts' citations made by the Assessing Officer is
concerned, I find that they are not applicable because of messed up facts of
the case. In totality of all the facts and circumstances, I am of the view
that the claim of the appellant for providing the depreciation @25% on the
Golf Course is in order.
Appellant's succeed on this ground of appeal."
(Emphasis supplied) On further appeal by the Revenue, the Tribunal held as
under:
"2.5 We have heard both the counsels and perused the records. The AO in this
case has treated the Golf Course akin to hotel building and allowed 20%
depreciation for A.Y. 2002-03 and 2003-04. For A.Y. 2005-06 he has allowed
depreciation as applicable to building @10%. It is settled law that Tribunal
cannot take away the relief that AO has given. Now further we find that on the
same set of facts in assessee's own case, the impugned asset was treated as
plant for A.Y. 2001-02 by the AO himself and depreciation @25% was allowed.
The assessment was done u/s 143(3) of the IT Act.
In the present case, we do not find any change in the circumstances of the
case facts or law. Under the circumstances, we refer to Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Page | 21 Court decision in the case CIT vs. Dalmia Promoters Developers
(P) Ltd. 281 ITR 346 wherein it was held that when there is absence of any
material change in the facts and law, the view taken for earlier year cannot
be disturbed. In the present case, we find that no such material change has
been brought out before us. Since the depreciation @25% on the said asset has
been allowed for A.Y. 2001-02, we do not see any reason to disturb the rate to
20% as applied by the AO. Accordingly, we uphold the order of the ld. CIT(A)
to allow the depreciation @25%.
2.6 In the result, all the revenue's appeals are dismissed. (Emphasis
supplied) ii. He further placed reliance in this regard on the decision of the
Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ACIT v. CLC Global Ltd. : ITA No.
2288/Del/2008, wherein it has been held that once the assessing officer has,
on exactly similar facts, allowed depreciation on goodwill in the immediately
preceding year, there is no reason to take a different stand for the
succeeding year and to disallow the depreciation claimed [refer pages 39-46 of
case laws paper book].
f) It is further respectfully submitted that though the principles of res
judicata are not applicable to income tax proceedings, it does not mean that
it is open for the assessing officer to come to a different conclusion on
similar facts and circumstances. He relied up on Radhasoami Satsang vs. CIT:
193 ITR 321 CIT vs. Neo Polypack (P) Ltd: 245 ITR 492, CIT vs Excel Industries
Ltd.: 358 ITR 295 (SC) , DIT (E) V. Apparel Export Promotion Council: 244 ITR
734 (Del), CIT V. Dalmial Promoters Developers (P) Ltd: 281 ITR 346 (Del.),
DIT(E) v. Escorts Cardiac Diseases Hospital: 300 ITR 75 (Del.) CIT V. Girish.
Page | 22 Mohan Ganeriwala: 260 ITR 417 (P&H) CIT vs. Sewa Bharti Haryana
Pradesh: 325 ITR 599 (P&H) CIT vs. P. Khrishna Warrier: 208 ITR 823 (Ker) CIT
vs. Harishchandra Gupta 132 ITR 799 (Ori)
g) In view of the aforesaid, it is submitted that classification and
acceptance of "golf course" as "plant" in the initial year(s) operates as res-
judicata and binds both the assessee and the Revenue. In these circumstances,
the assessing officer had no jurisdiction, whatsoever, to change
classification in subsequent year(s), including the year under consideration.
h) On the aforesaid ground itself, without anything more, it is respectfully
submitted that the action of the assessing officer/CIT(A) in treating the golf
course as "building" and not as "plant" is not sustainable and calls for being
deleted.
i) He also submitted that without prejudice to the aforesaid, the issue that
arises in the present appeal is whether amount spent on construction of golf
course is to be regarded as "plant" or as "building. Under section 32 of the
Act, depreciation is, it is respectfully submitted, allowable, inter alia, on
"plant". The term „plant‟ is defined in section 43(3) of the Act, which reads
as under:
"43(3) "plant" includes ships, vehicles, books, scientific apparatus and
surgical equipment used for the purposes of the business or profession but
does not include tea bushes or livestock or buildings or furniture and
fittings"
On perusal of the above definition, it is submitted that an inclusive
definition of `plant‟ has been given in section 43(3) of the Act to include
ships, vehicles, books, scientific apparatus and surgical instruments used for
the purpose of business or profession. The definition specifically excludes
from its ambit tea bushes, livestock, Page | 23 buildings or furniture and
fittings. He referred to decision of Supreme Court in the case of Scientific
Engineering House Pvt Ltd v. CIT: 157 ITR 86, wherein the meaning of term
'plant' was explained. He submitted that legal principles that emerge from the
aforesaid decision may be culled out as under:
> (a) Plant in its ordinary sense includes any apparatus, article or object
> fixed or movable, live or dead, used by a businessman for carrying on his
> business;
> (b) Plant include any article/ apparatus used by a businessman for carrying
> on business and it is not necessarily confined to an apparatus which is used
> for mechanical operations or processes or is employed in mechanical or
> industrial business;
> (c) In order to qualify as plant, the article must have some degree of
> durability.
The Court, thus, summed up by holding that test is whether the article is a
tool of trade with which assessee carries on his business and if the answer is
in the affirmative, it will be a plant . He submitted that applying the
aforesaid tests, the Golf course constructed by the appellant, it is
submitted, qualifies as „plant‟ and is eligible for depreciation @ 25% for the
following reasons:
> a) The Golf course constructed by the appellant, it is submitted, is a
> highly specialized structure built on land. Constructing/ developing/
> maintaining golf course is a highly skilled and experience-oriented job
> wherein specific sophisticated machinery and wide range machinery is
> required to be employed. In order to construct/ develop Golf Course, the
> appellant had to engage highly reputed international designer Jack Nicklaus
> for designing the Golf course. It may be pertinent to mention here that
> following are important, essential and integral parts of any Golf course:
> Page | 24  Two varieties of grass „Bermuda Tiff Drawf‟ and „Grass Selection
> 419" have to be maintained;
 Waterways, Bunkers, fairways, roughs, greens and many other things have to
be created and maintained;  Highly sophisticated turf care machinery is
required for maintenance of the Golf course;
 Proper irrigation system is required so as to reach all corners of the
course. Proper pump stations have to be installed for irrigating the golf
course. In the case of the assessee, equipments have been installed for
drawing water from 18 bore wells using 75 HP pumps. 907 sprinklers and 203
quick coupling have been installed for irrigating the whole course, which
requires an average of 8,00,000 kilo liters of water every month.
b) In support of the aforesaid, year-wise details of expenditure on golf
course aggregating to Rs. 22.57 crores is placed at pages 62-70 of the Paper
book-Vol I. On perusal of the same, it will kindly be noticed that the
expenditure on golf course includes the following:
> (a) Expenditure on creation of Irrigation systems, which includes
> expenditure like pumps, motors, sprinklers, cutters, tanks, etc.;
> (b) Expenditure on creation of bunkers, waterways, etc.;
> (c) Expenditure on creation of lakes;
> (d) Expenditure towards electrification;
> (e) Expenditure towards creation of stores, medical centers, etc.
> (f) Expenditure towards procuring technical know-how for development of golf
> course;
> (g) Indirect day-to-day business expenses allocated to the cost of golf
> course;
> Page | 25
> (h) Other miscellaneous earthmoving, leveling expenses, etc.
c) On perusal of the aforesaid, it will be kindly appreciated that the Golf
course is a highly specialized and complex plant constructed on the land
requiring levels of undulation and other technical requirements as per the
rules of the game of golf. The construction of golf course involves various
plants and equipment referred above. Further, the fact that the appellant
spent an aggregate sum of Rs. 22.57 crores for construction of Golf course
during the financial years 1997-98 to 2000-01 speaks volume of the specialized
nature and the advanced technology/ expertise that goes into constructing the
Golf course (Refer pictorial representation of the specialized nature of Golf
course placed at pages 74-111 of the Paper book - Vol 1).
d) In light of the aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that Golf course
has to be treated as „plant‟ and is, therefore, entitled to deprecation @ 25%
as applicable to „plant‟, more particularly in the light of the legal position
discussed herein.
e) Similarly, in the present case, in the business of Golf course, developing
a golf course, for running the business of operating a golf course is, it is
submitted, an essential/ indispensable part of/ and is used as a tool of
business. Therefore, applying the functional test laid down in various
decisions, Golf Course expense has to be, and it is submitted, regarded as
`plant
f) Attention is also invited to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case
of ACIT v. Victory Aqua Farm Ltd: 379 ITR 335, wherein the assessee was
engaged in business of Page | 26 „Aqua Culture‟ and growing prawns in
specially designed ponds. In the income tax return, the assessee claimed
depreciation in respect of the ponds by treating the same to be „plant‟ within
the meaning of section 32 of the Act. The assessing officer disallowed the
claim of the assessee. The apex court held that since the ponds were specially
designed for rearing/ breeding of the prawns, thus, they have to be treated as
tools of the business of the assessee and therefore, such ponds would be
treated as „plant‟ for the purpose of allowing depreciation thereon. The
relevant extracts of the observation of the Court are as under:
> "4. It is not in dispute that if these ponds are 'plants', then they are
> eligible for depreciation at the rates applicable to plant and machinery and
> case would be covered by the provisions of Section 32 of the Act. It is not
> even necessary to deal with this aspect in detail with reference to the
> various judgments, inasmuch as judgment of this Court in Commissioner of
> Income Tax, Karnataka v.
> Karnataka Power Corporation [2002(9) SCC 571] clinches the issue. Therein
> the Court has taken into consideration the earlier judgments on which some
> reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the Revenue and is suitably
> dealt with. The relevant portion of the said judgment reads as under:
> ................ .....................
> 5\. An attempt was made by the learned counsel for the Revenue to the effect
> that the pond in question was natural and not constructed/specially designed
> by the assessee. We do not find it be so. In the judgment dated 14.10.2004
> of the High Court, Page | 27 which is decided in favour of the assessee, the
> High Court has specifically mentioned that the prawns are grown in specially
> designed ponds. Further, this very contention that these are natural ponds
> has been specifically rejected as not correct. Moreover, from the order
> passed by the Assessing Officer we find that this was not the reason given
> by the Assessing Officer to reject the claim. Therefore, finding of fact on
> this aspect cannot be gone into at this stage.
> 6\. We find that the judgment dated 14.10.2004 rightly rests this case on
> 'functional test' and since the ponds were specially designed for
> rearing/breeding of the prawns, they have to be treated as tools of the
> business of the assessee and the depreciation was admissible on these ponds.
> We, thus, decide the question in favour of the assessee and as a
> consequence, appeals of the Revenue are dismissed and that of the assessee
> are allowed."
(Emphasis supplied)
g) Kind attention, in this regard, is also invited to the decision of the
Bombay High Court in the case of CIT V. Hydro Electric Power Supply Co. Ltd:
122 ITR 288 wherein the Court held dam constructed by the assessee engaged in
the business of generation of electric power to be „plant‟. Similarly, wet
dock of a dockyard in the case of CIT V. Mazagon Dock Limited: 191 ITR 460
(Bom.) and swimming pool of a caravan park operator in the case of Cooke V.
Beach Station Caravans Limited: (1974) 3 All ER 159 have been held to be
„plant‟. In the case of Shyam Enterprises v CIT: 349 ITR 418 (All), the High
Court, Page | 28 applying the functional test, had held that the building of
special cooling chambers in a cold storage plant, being constructed in a
specific process and manner, is eligible for depreciation as applicable on a
„plant‟. definition of plant, The High Court further held that section 43(3)
of the Act, providing the excludes general buildings but not buildings of a
special nature. In the case of Niko Resources Ltd. vs. ACIT: 395 ITR 301
(Guj), the High Court treated mineral oil wells as plant for the purpose of
applying depreciation under section 32 of the Act In the case of Airports
Authority of India v. CIT: 134 ITD 34 (Delhi), the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal
had held that, terminal building of the assessee used as a tool of business
for regulation of air traffic and communicational and navigational control was
to be treated as „plant‟ for the purposes of claiming depreciation under the
relevant provisions of the Act. In the case of Serum Institute of India Ltd.
vs. Addl. CIT: 147 TTJ 594 (Pune), the Pune Bench of Tribunal had held that
various stools, tables, stainless steel racks, trolley, etc., used by the
assessee in a laboratory for manufacturing chemicals and vaccines were to be
treated as „plant‟ and not as „furniture‟. The Tribunal, in this regard,
relying on the Bombay High Court decision in the case of CIT v. Park Devis
(India) Ltd.: 214 ITR 587, held that the 'functional test' has to be applied
in deciding if a particular tool constitutes plant and machinery or the
furniture. The Tribunal further held that as various tools, tables, etc., were
being used for the purpose of production or processing of the chemical tests
in the laboratory premises leading to the production of the stocks, the same
must be categorized as plant and machinery.
h) Further, reliance is placed on the following decisions:
> Page | 29  Cooke v. Beach Station Caravans Limited (1974) 3 All ER 159
> (All.)  SK Tulsi and Sons vs. CIT: 187 ITR 685 (All)  Moidu‟s Medicare (P)
> Ltd v. CIT : ITA Nos. 1261, 1262, 1310 of 2009 (Ker.)  Maharashtra State
> Road Development Corpn. Ltd. v.
ACIT: 128 TTJ 32 (Mum. Trib)
i) Similarly, in the present case, in the business of Golf course, developing
a golf course, for running the business of operating a golf course is, it is
submitted, an essential/ indispensable part of/ and is used as a tool of
business. Therefore, applying the functional test laid down in various
decisions, Golf Course expense has to be, it is submitted, regarded as `plant
„and is eligible for depreciation @ 25%. Accordingly, the addition made by the
assessing officer and upheld by the CIT(A) calls for being deleted in toto.
The LD AO reiterated the findings given in original assessment and allowed
depreciation on golf course @ 10% by treating the same as „building‟. On
further appeal against the said order, the CIT(A), vide order dated 31.12.2018
upheld the order of the assessing officer restricting depreciation on golf
course @ 10%. The CIT(A) held that no doubt the assessee is generating revenue
from the players for playing golf and allowing its golf course, but it cannot
be said that the assessee has manufactured or produced anything. The aforesaid
conclusion of the CIT(A) is, it is submitted, contrary to the functional test
laid down by the Courts. The CIT(A) failed to appreciate that manufacture/
production is not necessary to treat an asset as "plant". So long as
functional test of a plant is satisfied, the asset would qualify as plant.
Further, reliance placed by the CIT(A) on the decision in the case of CIT v.
Anand Theatres: 244 ITR Page | 30 192 (SC) is, it is submitted, totally
misplaced since the Supreme Court in the later case in CIT V. Karnataka Power
Corporation: 247 ITR 268 (SC) clarified that the decision and observation in
Anand Theatres (supra) was limited to buildings used for purposes of hotels or
cinema theatres and will not apply otherwise. Moreover, the Supreme Court in
the latest case of Victory Aqua Farm (supra), re-emphasized the concept of
functional test to determine whether a particular asset is to be treated as
„plant‟ under section 32 of the Act.
6\. Based on the above stated submission he prayed that for the aforesaid
cumulative reasons, it is respectfully submitted that the assessee has rightly
claimed depreciation on golf course as "plant".
7\. The LD DR vehemently supported the orders of the lower authorities. The
main contention of the learned departmental representative was that AO has
correctly allowed the depreciation considering the golf course as a building.
It was stated that golf course is nothing but a piece of land having some
landscaping with level undulation, grass on the land etc , Small ponds etc.
Essentially, according to him golf course is a piece of land. Depreciation is
not allowed on land. However since certain activities have been carried out on
the piece of land to make it usable for playing the golf the learned assessing
officer has allowed the depreciation considering the golf course as building.
In fact were golf course may be considered akin to a road. The road was not
covered under depreciation as it was essentially on land. However, after
insertion of appendix - 1 under rule 5 of the income tax rules 1962 the
building includes roads bridges and converts well, tube wells. The learned
departmental representative vehemently relied upon the decision of the
honourable Supreme Court in case of CIT vs. Anand Theatres 244 ITR 192. The
learned CIT DR further relied upon the decision of the Delhi High Court in
case of 52 taxmann.com 21 in brother but the toll road Co Ltd vs. the
assistant Commissioner of income tax. He further relied upon the decision of
CIT vs. that my local 82 ITR 44 of the honourable Supreme Court and 243 ITR
81. He further submitted that in Anand the theatre the honourable Supreme
Court held that the building used for Page | 31 running a hotel or carrying on
cinema theatre and not be held to be a plant. In case of Raj Malhotra, the
honourable Supreme Court held that the building in which water was run was not
the plant. In the case of Dr P Venkata of the Supreme Court held that if it
was found that the building or structure constituted an apparatus or a tool of
the taxpayer by means of which business activities were carried on amounted to
a plant but where the structure played no part in carrying on these activities
but merely constituted a place where they were carried on, then it is a
building and it is not a plant. He therefore submitted that in the present
case the players play golf on the golf course but the golf course as such does
not play any part in carrying on the playing activity of the assessee. He
further countered the argument of the learned authorised representative that
the issue squarely covered in favour of the assessee in case of GP greens Ltd
in ITA number 3545/del/2009, wherein the coordinate bench vide order dated
9/3/2010 has not due to adjudicate the issue as to whether the depreciation is
allowable on golf course treating the same as plant or not. He therefore
submitted that the ratio of said decision does not apply to the facts of the
case. He further submitted that in case of the assessee itself the coordinate
bench restore the issue of depreciation of golf course to the AO to examine
the facts which were not produced before the AO including details of
construction on 300 acres of land et cetera. He therefore submitted that the
learned assessing officer has correctly granted the depreciation on golf
course considering it as a building and not plant.
8\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused orders of
the lower authorities. The only issue involved in this appeal is whether the
golf course constructed by the assessee is a plant or building. According to
the revenue authorities, it is a building and not a plant whereas the assessee
contends that it is a plant. The learned CIT (A) has dealt with the whole
issue considering the direction of ITAT and view of the AO thereon as under :-
> "6.1 I have carefully considered the assessment order under appeal and
> earlier orders, submissions by the appellant, other materials on record and
> the case laws relied upon.
Page | 32 6.2 The issue revolves around the allowable rate of depreciation on
the golf course held by the appellant. As stated earlier, the AO while
completing the assessment u/s 148 / 143(3) dated 24.12.2017 allowed the
depreciation on golf course @ 10% considering it as building against the claim
of appellant of 25% as plant and machinery. The addition amounting to Rs.
1,37,71,043/- as made for this difference. The CIT(A) allowed the appeal of
the appellant, thereby determining the depreciation @ 25%. The department
preferred further appeal before the ITAT, Delhi. The Hon'ble ITAT vide their
orders in ITA No. 3549/Del/2009 and 4847/Del/2009 for the AYs 2001-02 and
2003-04 have set aside the matter to the file of AO with the following
direction/remarks:-
> "45. In the second part of above operative para, the Ld. CIT(A) held that
> the ratio of the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the \case of CIT Vs.
> Anand Theatre is not applicable and then jump to a conclusion that the
> business of the assessee is to invite players for playing the golf and
> charging the fee for that and thus the field so prepared was a business
> operated used by the assessee for carrying on its business of playing golf.
> In the last lines, without specifically pointing out as to whether the golf
> course that is a piece of land with many levels of undulation, holes, small
> ponds etc can be categorized as a plant and machinery and not as a building.
> The Id. CIT(A) jumped to a conclusion that the assessee's claim of
> depreciation @ 25% is allowed which is not a proper and justified approach
> for a quasi-judicial authority. We may point out that golf course has not
> been categorized in the schedule of depreciation and the main dispute
> between the assessee and the revenue is that the assessee is seeking to
> place the golf course in the category of plant and machinery whereas the
> Revenue wants to treat the same as building.
46\. At this juncture, we may point out that we are not in agreement with the
conclusion drawn by the id. CIT(A) that a piece of land having some
landscaping for playing golf such as Page | 33 various level undulation,
holes, small ponds etc construed a super structure which- can be categorized
as a plant and machinery. If this view is accepted then every landscaping
having some special features for the purpose of its intended use would become
plant and machinery and every construction of building for the purpose of
sports would be converted into plant and machinery. It is pertinent to note
that for creation of golf course, landscaping is done for in various levels
and some holes, ponds and walking path is created but in our humble
understanding this kind of piece of land converted into a golf course by
creating some specialized facilities for playing golf cannot be put in the
category of plant and machinery.
47\. In view of above, we have no hesitation to hold that the Id. CIT(A)
granted relief to the assessee without any basis and without arriving to a
conclusion as to whether golf course is a plant and machinery or building.
Therefore, conclusion of the Id. CIT(A) is not sustainable as we are unable to
see any basis for the factual observations noted by the Id. CIT(A) for putting
the golf course in the category of plant. Since the issue has not been
adjudicated by the Id. CIT(A) in a proper manner, therefore, this issue is
restored to the file of the AO for a fresh adjudication after affording due
opportunity of being heard to the assessee and without being prejudiced from
earlier orders and our observations in this order.
48\. We may also point out that to support the case of the AO, the Id. CIT-DR
has placed reliance on plethora of decisions including the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Anand Theatre (supra), CIT Vs. Gwalior
Rayon Silk Mfg. Mills 196 ITR 149 (SC) and decision of Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi in the case of Moradabad Toll road Co. I/s. ACIT [2014] 52 Taxmann.com
21 [Delhi] to establish that golf course is not a plant and machinery and it
is to be categorized as a building and on the other hand, the Id. AR has
placed Page | 34 reliance on the case of decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of CIT Vs. Karnataka Power Corpn. 247 ITR 268 (SC), Scientific
Engineering House P. Ltd. Vs. CIT 157 ITR 86 (SC) and decision in the case of
Victory Aqua Farm Ltd. 61 Taxmann.com 166 (SC) and plethora of decision to
support the case of the assessee that golf course is a plant and machinery and
it is not a building. Interestingly, no cited decision relied by both the
parties are related to golf course. Therefore, facts regarding this issue have
to be dealt in respect of golf course of 300 acres land and how it became
plant and machinery attracting 25% depreciation. The AO has to examine these
details to ascertain the issue between the parties as stated above. We also
note that the assessee in its written submissions before the authorities below
as well as before the Tribunal has submitted the details of construction on
the 300 acres of land converting it into a golf course, but these details have
not been submitted before the AO and the AO could not get an opportunity to
verify and examine the same. Therefore, in our considered opinion, this issue
requires detailed verification and examination at the end of the AO after
affording due opportunity of hearing to the assessee and without being
prejudiced from the earlier assessment and first appellate order. Needless to
say that the AO would examine all material facts on this issue and after
considering the mandate of the relevant provisions of the Act as well as the
ration of decisions relied upon by both the parties shall decide the issue
afresh in accordance with law."
6.3 Accordingly, the AO, after considering the issue, has taken the
depreciation on Golf course @ 10% as applicable to building only, rejecting
the claim of AO in the assessment order under appeal with the following
remarks:-
> "5.4 From the details of the expenses, the assessee was not able to justify
> as to how these expenses make Golf Course a Plant. These are simple expenses
> related to landscaping and Page | 35 construction. If the argument of the
> assessee is accepted, then every land with some kind of landscaping or every
> building used for some king of sports activity would be converted into Plant
> & Machinery. Further, simply because some special controlling equipment are
> attached, it will not take out of the category of building. The golden rule
> of interpretation is that if some structure / entity are more near to one
> category than by stretching it should not be considered to fall in a
> category, which is far off.
5.5 Assessee in its responses have submitted that Golf Course, which includes
various plants and equipment, falls under the definition of term 'Plant' as
per the provisions of the Act and is eligible for depreciation @ 25%. However,
during set-aside proceedings, the assessee could not justify as to what are
these plants and equipment used in Golf Course, which fall under the head of
'Plant and Machinery'. Moreover, assessee is already separately claiming
depreciation on sporting items like Golf Carts, Pull Carts etc. 5.6 The
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT V Anand Theatre 244 ITR 92 has stated
that building is not plant and machinery. Even if it is to be construed as
plant, only that part of the building can be put in the category as plant and
machinery not the entire building. On occasions a building may be designed and
constructed to the specific requirement of a particular industry, trade or
business, but that would not make such building a plant.
5.7 In an Industry, no production can be normally carried on without a
building where the plant and machinery is installed but for that reason, the
building cannot be considered as plant when there is separate entry for
building for the purpose of Depreciation.
5.8 The concrete pathways, drive ways, inter connecting roads constructed in
the Golf course which links and provide Page | 36 approach to the playground
cannot be referred as Plant but would be covered in "Building" within the
meaning of Section 32 as the worked "building" specifically includes roads,
bridges etc. 5.9 Moreover, when we come to the basic question as why
depreciation is allowed, because every tangible asset depreciates. It is off.
passage of time causes physical assets to wear, tear and otherwise lose value;
depreciation & designed to capture that loss of value over a tangible asset's
useful life. Through depreciation, a company is able to capture and spread out
costs over the long-term. In the context of the above definition also, the
Golf Course cannot be considered as Plant but Building only.
5.10 Furthermore, the assessee is already taking depreciation separately on
sporting items like Golf Carts, Pull Carts etc. In view of the above
discussion depreciation on the Golf Course is limited to 10%"
6.4 I have examined the contention of the appellant, the assessment order and
direction by the Hon'ble ITAT.
6.5 It is evident that no depreciation has been claimed on land but only the
add-ons on the land has been taken to consider as plant and "machinery by the
appellant, which was taken as building by the AO. It is also observed that in
the depreciation chart as per the IT Act and Rules, no such category has been
mentioned related to depreciation on golf course. No direct ruling or any case
laws has been brought to the notice by appellant, to say that golf course is
plant and machinery. The case laws relied upon are on different issues all
together. The issue in this case is decided looking to the fact and
circumstances of this case only. Accordingly, this has to be examined with
reference to the activities of the appellant company.
6.6 The golf course is a playground with various equipments such as
sprinklers, holes, ponds and other add-ons incorporated therein to facilitate
the sports of golf. It is stated to be highly sophisticated and Page | 37
value added equipments have been installed. No doubt that appellant is
generating the revenue from the players for playing golf and allowing its golf
course but it cannot be said that it has manufactured or produced anything as
a creation of asset akin to plant and machinery. In common parlance the plant
or machinery is such to become a tool for production of the commercial goods,
generally tangible in nature. This also finds support from the various
judgments wherein it is held that the functional test is required to
understand and consider whether it is a plant or an asset specially for the
case of appellant. In the case of appellant, the golf course has been created
as sports facility to facilitate and provide entertainment to its clients who
are either residents of the hotel run by appellant or members. There is no
production per se is substantiated.
6.7 Further the conversion of land with inserting certain playing equipments,
creating landscaping, holes, ponds and others is being done ii the regular
course to facilitate the game of golf and not aimed to any production of goods
and services. It may be a facility to provide for better and smooth play of
golf, thereby better commercial prospects for company but cannot be termed as
plant and machinery within the meaning of the Act.
6.8 The definition of plant and machinery as mentioned in the section 43(3) of
the Act is as follows:-
> "43(3) "plant" includes ships, vehicles, books, scientific apparatus and
> surgical equipment used for the purposes of the business or profession but
> does not include tea bushes or livestock or buildings or furniture and
> fittings"
6.9 In the present case, the landscaping etc. are neither surgical equipments
nor any scientific apparatus. The add-ons on the land for running of smooth
play of golf such as landscaping, sprinklers, waterways, holes etc. are
required for any such activity in the normal circumstance as the same is
required for the maintenance of any building also. Therefore, putting up of
various sophisticated or Page | 38 specialized item cannot be the basis for
treating any golf course as plant and machinery. Therefore, the argument of
the appellant that it has put up various value addition is not tenable.
6.10 Further, it is not directly related to the production or creation of any
output but work as a support system and therefore, appropriately considered by
AO as building and not the plant. It is also to be mentioned that the assessee
is running a hotel and therefore, the residents of the hotel are also provided
the facility to play golf. In such circumstance, the main objective is to
increase the business of hotel by providing additional benefit / facility of
golf.
6.11 The issue discussed in the case of CIT vs. Anand Theatre (supra) is
clearly in the favour of revenue with respect to the facts relates to the
appellant. Therefore, the same is accordingly followed where it is clearly
mentioned that in such circumstance it has to be treated as building and not
plant.
6.12 Therefore, looking to the facts and circumstances of the case and in law,
where no specific rate of depreciation has been provided in the Act / Rules
nor categorized golf course as plant and machinery, the landscaping and some
structuring and fixtures done over land for the purpose of the sports to lure
the client where no_ product is also demonstrated to have been manufactured
but only facility is provided, this cannot be considered as plant and
machinery. Accordingly, the appellant is not entitled for depreciation @ 25%
but only treated as building as this is a super structure on the land, which
is being used for the purpose of business.
6.13 Therefore, I have no reason to differ with the findings of AO and thus
the addition is confirmed in the case of appellant."
9\. It is an admitted fact that assessee is a company engaged in the business
of inviting membership and then allowing those members to play golf on the
golf course constructed by it. It is also apparent that the assessee is
engaged in the business of running of the golf course and also earning revenue
from apartments. It has constructed golf course at the total cost of Page | 39
Rs. 225728037 as on 31st of March 2001. Its main source of income is
membership fees. The golf course constructed comprised of various equipments
and items of plant and machinery like irrigation system, water tanks including
water sprinklers, technical know-how, bunkers et cetera. The assessee has
submitted that the entire cost incurred on construction of golf course was
capitalized as a separate block of plant and machinery and depreciation
thereon is allowable at the rate of 25%. Admittedly, the above cost on which
depreciation is claimed does not include the cost of land. The honourable
Supreme Court in 243 ITR 81 CIT vs. Dr B Venkata Rao while holding that the
nursing room is a plant has laid down the guiding principles for considering
which building constitutes plant. It was held there in that :-
> "The assessee is a medical practitioner. He runs a nursing home. In respect
> of the building in which the nursing home is run, the assessee claimed, for
> the assessment year 1983-84, that it was a "plant". His contention was
> rejected by the Income-tax Officer and by the Commissioner (Appeals). The
> Income-tax Appellate Tribunal found to the contrary. Applying the functional
> test, it held that the nursing home was a plant. The High Court affirmed
> that view. It said that a building used as a nursing home is not comparable
> with an ordinary building having regard to the number of persons using it,
> the manner of its use and the purpose for which it is used. The building was
> used to not only house patients and nurse them, but also to treat them, for
> which various kinds of equipment and instruments were installed.
> The most apposite decision in this context is that delivered by the
> Allahabad High Court in S. K. Tulsi and Sons v. CIT [1991] 187 ITR
> 685\. Reference was made to an earlier judgment, where also the functional
> test approved by this court in several decisions was applied. It was held
> that if it was found that the building or structure constituted an apparatus
> or a tool of the taxpayer by means of which business activities were carried
> on, it amounted to a "plant" ; but where the structure played no part in the
> carrying on of those activities but merely constituted a place wherein they
> were carried on, the building could not be regarded as a plant.
> Page | 40 The Tribunal and the High Court in the instant case proceeded upon
> assumptions of what a nursing home should contain. This may not be
> altogether appropriate. What is to be determined is whether the particular
> nursing home building was equipped as to enable the assessee to carry on the
> business of a nursing home therein or whether it is just any premises
> utilized for that object.
> We find from the order of the Tribunal as also the assessment order that the
> assessee‟s nursing home is equipped to enable the sterilization of surgical
> instruments and bandages to be carried on. It is reasonable to assume in the
> circumstances, particularly having regard to the Tribunal‟s order, which
> states that the sterilization room covers about 250 sq. ft. that the nursing
> home is also equipped with an operation theatre. In the circumstance, we
> think that the finding of the High Court should be accepted.
> We would, however, add that in a case such as this, the Tribunal should
> proceed upon material placed by the assessee which establishes that the
> building is specially equipped as a plant for the assessee‟s business."
10\. In SCIENTIFIC ENGINEERING HOUSE (PVT.) LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME
TAX, ANDHRA PRADESH [1986] 157 ITR 86X (SC) Honorable Supreme court has held
that that "plant" was not necessarily confined to an apparatus, which was used
for mechanical operations or process or was employed in mechanical or
industrial business. But in order to qualify as "plant", the particular
article had to have some degree of durability. The test to be applied was: Did
the article fulfill the function of a plant in the assessee's trading
activity? Was it a tool of his trade with which he carried on his business? If
the answer was in the affirmative, it would be a "plant".
11\. Honourable supreme court in ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v.
VICTORY AQUA FARM LTD. [2015] 379 ITR 335 (SC) has held that when assessee
carried on the business of aquaculture. It grew prawns in specially designed
ponds. It claimed depreciation in respect of these ponds treating them as
tools of its business and, therefore, constituting "plant" within the meaning
of section 32 of the Income-tax Act, 1961. The Assessing Page | 41 Officer
disallowed the claim but the Tribunal held in favour of the assessee. Two
Benches of the High Court took opposing views. On appeal to the Supreme Court
, affirming the view of the Tribunal, that the High Court had specifically
mentioned that the prawns were grown in specially designed ponds and the
contention that these were natural ponds had been specifically rejected as not
correct. Moreover, this was not the reason given by the Assessing Officer to
reject the claim. Therefore, the finding of fact on this aspect could not be
gone into at this stage. The functional test was applicable and since the
ponds were specially designed for rearing or breeding of the prawns, they had
to be treated as tools of the business of the assessee and the depreciation
was admissible on these ponds as plant.
12\. Further honourable Gujarat High Court in NIKO RESOURCES LTD. v.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX (2017) 395 ITR 301 while deciding the
issue whether the mineral oil well constitute plant as claimed by the assessee
or building as claimed by the revenue, has held that Under section 32 of the
Income-tax Act, 1961, depreciation allowance is, subject to the provisions of
section 34 , permissible only in respect of certain assets specified therein,
namely, buildings, machinery, plant and furniture owned by the assessee and
used for the purpose of business. Section 43(3) defines "plant" in very wide
terms. In order to qualify as plant the article must have some degree of
durability. The test would be: does the article fulfill the function of a
plant in the assessee's trading activity? Is it a tool of his trade with which
he carries on his business ? If the answer is in the affirmative, it will be a
plant. Thus, it was held that Tribunal was not right in law in treating the
mineral oil wells as buildings for applying rate of depreciation under section
32 of the Act. The mineral oil wells constituted "plant" for purposes of
section 32.
13\. In the present case also before us, the golf course owned and used by the
assessee for the purpose of the business as a tool of the business of the
assessee. It is functioning like a plant in case of the assessee. Further, it
is not the case of the revenue that assessee has claimed any depreciation on
the land. It is similar to the depreciation on pond allowed in the case of an
Page | 42 aquaculture company by the honourable Supreme Court in 379 ITR 335
and honourable Gujarat High Court holding that mineral oil well also
constitute a plant. The learned CIT - A is not correct in saying that playing
equipments, creating landscaping, holes, ponds and others are being done in
the regular course to facilitate the game of golf and not into any production
of goods and services. In fact, by creating these facilities, the assessee has
created a service facility for its members and it produces revenue for the
assessee. It is not always necessary that each plant should produce certain
other tangible goods. Further, in case of the assessee in certain assessment
years under section 143 (3) of the income tax act the claim of the
depreciation holding the golf course as plant has been accepted by revenue and
in subsequent years in assessment year 2006 - 07 to 2009 - 10 also the claim
of the assessee is accepted. In fact the claim of depreciation on golf course
as a plant stands accepted in assessment year 98 - 99 to assessment year 2000
- 01, 2002 - 03 and 2006 - 07 to 2009 -
10\. Even otherwise, coordinate bench in case of Deputy Commissioner of Income
Tax vs. JP greens Ltd in ITA number 3545-3547/Del/2009 , on identical facts
and circumstances considered golf course as plant and depreciation at the rate
of 25% was allowed holding that assessing officer himself has allowed
depreciation at that rate in past in that particular case. The decision relied
upon by the learned CIT DR that Toll Road does not qualify as a plant for
higher rate of depreciation as held by the honourable Delhi High Court in 52
taxmann.com 21 (Delhi) in the Moradabad Toll Road Co Ltd vs. Asst Commissioner
of income tax was decided as „road‟ was specifically considered as part of
building in the part A of appendix 1 of The Income tax Rules 1962. Thus, the
fact of that case is distinguishable. Further, it was not stated before us
that revenue has not accepted the decision of the coordinate bench in DCIT vs.
JP greens Ltd where golf course was held to be plant. Therefore, it stands
concluded that golf course is a plant looking to the nature of business of the
assessee. Further, the judicial precedents relied upon by the parties also
only lays down the proposition established by the higher judicial forum
supports the above view. In view of this, ground number 1 of the appeal of the
assessee is allowed reversing the views of the lower authorities, holding that
golf course is a plant on which Page | 43 assessee is entitled to the
depreciation at the rate of 25% under the income tax act.
14\. In view of our decision in ground number 1 of the appeal, the second
ground raised by the assessee, which was an alternative claim, does not
survive, hence it is dismissed.
15\. Accordingly, ITA number 1030/del/2019 for assessment year 2001 - 02,
filed by the assessee is allowed.
Assessment year 2003 - 04
16\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
1031/Del/2019 for the Assessment Year 2003-04 against the order of the
Commissioner of income tax (appeals) - 5, New Delhi dated 31/12/2018:-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and circumstances of the case and in law in
upholding the action of assessing officer in making addition of Rs. 60,54,840
on account of allowance of depreciation on golf-course as "building" as
against the same being considered as "plant and machinery" by the appellant.
1.1 That the CIT(A)/assessing officer erred on facts and circumstances of the
case and in law in not appreciating that classification of golf course could
not be changed in subsequent year when claim of depreciation @ 25% on golf
course as „plant‟ stood allowed/ accepted in the past assessment years, i.e.,
1998-99 to 2000-01 and succeeding assessment years, i.e., 2006-07 to 2009-10.
1.2 That the CIT (A)/assessing officer erred on facts and circumstances of the
case and in law in not appreciating that the classification of block of asset,
which has been allowed/accepted and merely carried forward from earlier years,
cannot be modified in current year 1.3 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and
circumstances of the case and in law in holding that golf course has not
manufactured or produced anything so as to classify it as a „plant and
machinery‟.
2\. Without prejudice, that the assessing officer erred on facts and
circumstances of the case and in law in not re-computing depreciation Page |
44 admissible under section 32( 1 )(ii) of the Act with reference to revised
written down value of golf course, consistent with the finding of treating the
golf course as „building‟ in earlier year(s)."
17\. The only issue involved in this appeal is whether golf course is a plant
or building. We have already decided this in appeal of the assessee for
assessment year 2001 - 02 holding that golf course is a plant. In view of this
ground number 1 of the appeal is allowed for the similar reasons given by us
in appeal for assessment year 2001 - 02. Ground number 2 being an alternative
claim by the assessee is not required to be adjudicated in view of our
decision in ground number 1 of above appeal.
18\. Accordingly ITA number 1031/del/2019 filed by the assessee is allowed.
Assessment year 2004-05
19\. The learned Deputy Commissioner Of Income Tax, circle 4 (1), New Delhi
has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 5582/Del/2010 for the
Assessment Year 2004-05 against the order of the learned Commissioner Of
Income Tax (Appeals) - VII, New Delhi dated 13/10/2010:-
"1. The order of the learned CIT (APPEALS) is erroneous & contrary to facts &
law..
2\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
CIT (Appeals) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs. 68,11,697/- made by
the AO by disallowing the excess depreciation claimed by the assessee i.e. by
directing the AO to allow depreciation on Golf Course @ 15% as against the 10%
allowed by the AO.
2.1. The ld CIT (A) ignored the fact the Golf Course is building and not
machinery and is not entitled for depreciation @ 15% applicable for machinery.
3\. On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. CIT
(Appeals) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs. 55,00,000/- made by the AO
by disallowing the expenses on account of golf course and repair & maintenance
expenses.
Page | 45 3.1. The Ld CIT(A) ignored the fact that there is abnormal increase
in the expenses and decline in the income of the assessee.
4\. The appellant craves leave to add, to alter, or amend any grounds of the
appeal raised above at the time of hearing."
20\. Ground number 1 and 4 of the appeal are general in nature, no arguments
were advanced by the parties, and hence they are dismissed.
21\. Ground number 2 of the appeal along with ground number 2.1 is with
respect to the direction of the learned CIT - A to the learned assessing
officer to allow depreciation on golf course at the rate of 15% considering it
is planned against the depreciation at the rate of 10% allowed by the learned
assessing officer considering it as a building. This issue has already been
decided by us in appeal for assessment year 2001 - 02 in case of the assessee
wherein we have held that the golf course is a plant, for the similar reasons,
we hold that there is no infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A for
this year. Accordingly, ground number 2 of the appeal of the revenue is
dismissed.
22\. Ground number 3 of the appeal is against the order of the learned CIT - A
in deleting the addition of INR 5,500,000 made by the AO disallowing the
expenses on account of golf course on repairs and maintenance. The learned
assessing officer found that assessee has debited a sum of INR 5 002703/- on
golf course maintenance and further INR 8 280468/- on repairs and maintenance
stop the learned assessing officer disallowed INR 3,000,000 out of general
repairs and maintenance and INR 2,500,000 out of thus Rs. 55,00,000 were
disallowed on account of repairs. The assessee preferred an appeal before the
learned CIT - A who deleted the above disallowance vide para number 5.1 of his
order. The learned CIT - A noted that the learned assessing officer should
make an intelligent and well- grounded estimate in the appropriate cases where
estimation is actually required but he does not possess absolute arbitrary
authority to assess any figure he likes. He held that such estimate must be
based on adequate and relevant material. He further held that in the instant
case he do not find any adequate all relevant material based on which the
expenses incurred by the assessee could be disallowed. Accordingly, he deleted
the disallowance.
Page | 46 The revenue challenged the above disallowance deletion as per ground
number 3.
23\. The learned CIT DR vehemently supported the order of the learned
assessing officer and stated that the learned CIT - A has not given any
finding that why he is disallowing the above expenditure when the assessee has
failed to show the genuineness of the expenditure incurred.
24\. Learned authorised representative submitted that the learned assessing
officer has made an adopted disallowance is despite the assessee maintaining
the complete details of the expenditure merely for the reason that there is an
increase in the above expenditure vis-a-vis golf course income. He further
submitted that assessee maintains the regular books of accounts, which are
duly audited and certified by the tax audit. He further stated that the
learned assessing officer has further failed to point out any specific defect
in those details and merely because of the reason that there is an increase in
the expenditure compared to the golf course income the disallowance has been
made. He further referred to the order of the learned CIT - A and submitted
that there is no infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A deleting the
above disallowance.
25\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities on this issue. It is a fact that assessee has
submitted the details of such expenses which are placed at page number 132 -
139 of the paper book. The books of the accounts of the assessee are duly
audited and the learned assessing officer has also not pointed out any
specific debate the defect in the details of such expenses. The merely because
there is an increase in the expenditure compared to the golf course income the
disallowance cannot be made. Further the assessing officer has also not
established that those expenditure have not been incurred wholly and
exclusively for the purposes of the business. In view of this we do not find
any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A in deleting the above
disallowance. Accordingly, ground number 3 of the appeal of the learned
assessing officer is dismissed.
26\. Accordingly, ITA number 5582/del/2010 filed by the learned assessing
officer for assessment year 2004 - 05 is dismissed.
Page | 47 Assessment year 2005-06
27\. For assessment year 2005 - 06, assessee as well as the learned assessing
officer has preferred appeals against the order of the Commissioner of income
tax (appeals) - VII, New Delhi dated 27/10/2009.
28\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4536/Del/2009 for the Assessment Year 2005-06:-
"1. That the CIT(Appeals) erred on facts and in law in confirming addition to
the extent of Rs. 20,41,449 out of total addition of Rs. 84,16,051 made by the
assessing officer under section 41(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (The Act‟).
2\. That the CIT(Appeals) erred on facts and in law in confirming addition of
Security deposits received by the appellant over the years aggregating to Rs.
34,05,42,851.
2.1 Without prejudice, that the CIT (Appeals) failed to appreciate that out of
total security deposit of Rs. 34.05,42,851 security deposit of Rs.
31,14,60.578 was on account of refundable deposit owed by the appellant to its
members and the same could not, therefore, be regarded as taxable income of
the appellant.
2.2 Further without prejudice that the CIT(Appeals) erred on facts and in law
in not holding that the addition, if any, had to be restricted to security
deposits received during the year amounting to Rs. 78.87.656 only. ~ 2.3
Further without prejudice that the CIT(Appeals) failed to appreciate that out
of total deposit of Rs. 34,05,42,851, Rs. 3,52.88,416 was in the nature of
advance membership fee, which had already been offered for tax by the
appellant in the subsequent year(s).
3\. Without prejudice, having held advance membership fee of Rs.
3,52,88,416 to be taxable in the year under appeal, the CIT(Appeals) erred on
facts and in law in not directing the assessing officer to exclude advance
membership fee of Rs. 3,52,88,416 from the taxable Page | 48 income of the
appellant of the subsequent year(s) in which the said income had already been
offered and subjected to tax.
4\. That the CIT(Appeals) erred on facts and in law in confirming disallowance
of Rs. 72,29,915 on account of bad debts/ advances written off in the normal
course of business."
29\. The revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4721/Del/2009 for the Assessment Year 2005-06:-
"1. The order of the learned CIT (APPEALS) is erroneous & contrary to facts &
law.
2\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
CIT (A) has erred in restricting the additions made by AO disallowing the
expenses claimed on account of provisions no longer written back to Rs.
20,41,449/- as against the disallowance of Rs. 84,16,051/- made in the
assessment order.
2.1. The Ld. CIT (A) ignored the fact that the disallowance of Rs.
84,16,051/- was made by AO in accordance of the provisions of section 41 (1)
(a) of the I. T. Act.
3\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
CIT(A) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs. 19,59,50,000/- made by the AO
on account of undisclosed income on sale of land.
3.1. The Ld. CIT (A) ignored the fact that the AO has made addition on basis
of sale consideration received by the assessee in earlier years on similar
property.
4\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
CIT(A) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs.49,71,84,511/- made by the AO
being the Long Term Capital Gain on transfer of ownership to M/s. ITC Ltd.
4.1. The Ld. CIT (A) ignored the fact that the LTG has arrived at by AO on the
basis of the agreement to sell in favour of ITC Ltd.
5\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
CIT (A) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs.20,31,305/- made by Page | 49
AO on account of interest disallowed as having been paid for non- business
activities.
5.1 The Ld. CIT (A) ignored the fact that the assessee utilized 64% of the
borrowed sum during the year for repayment of term loans.
6\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
CIT (A) has erred in deleting the addition of Rs.51,08,772/- made by AO on
account of excess depreciation claimed.
6.1. The Ld. CIT (A) ignored the fact that Golf Course is entitled for
depreciation of 10% i.e. for building and not 25% meant for plant and
machinery."
30\. Briefly stated the facts shows that the assessee has filed its return of
income on 31/10/2005 declaring loss of Rs 28641836/-. The assessment u/s 143
(3) of the income tax act was passed on 18/12/2007 determining the total
taxable income of Rs 497184511/-. Assessee preferred an appeal before the
learned CIT - A who partly allowed the appeal of the assessee. Therefore, both
the parties are in appeal before us.
31\. We 1st take up the appeal filed by the assessee. The first ground of
appeal is against the confirmation of the addition of INR 2 041449/- out of
the total addition of INR 8 416051/- made by the AO under the provisions of
section 41 (1) of the income tax act. The brief facts of the issue shows that
in the computation of the total income the sum of INR 8 416051/- was claimed
as provisions no longer required and written back. The allowances for which
resulted in increased of the existing declared losses. On being confronted
regarding that visibility of such claim, it was stated that such written back
amount primarily consisted of various provisions, which were not allowed in
the earlier years as per the income tax act. Therefore, it are written back
and claimed as admission deduction during the previous year. The learned
assessing officer verified the details in support of such claim and found that
the said) was a emission on account of net balances of trading assets and
liabilities which primarily consisted of business advances, debtors, creditors
and other provisions. Therefore according to him such) is clearly in the
nature of remission of trading liabilities and have to be treated as profits
Page | 50 chargeable to tax under the provisions of section 41 (1) of the
income tax act. In view of this, the above addition was made. The assessee
preferred the appeal before the learned CIT - A who considered the whole issue
and found that the learned assessing officer nowhere brought on record
anything to show that any allowance or deduction regarding any particular
amount written back had been allowed in the earlier years. He further noted
that the provision for bad and doubtful debts were already added back to the
total income and offered by the assessee for taxation. After that on
examination of the reconciliation of the provisions no longer required written
back during the year under consideration with the copies of the computation of
income for assessment year 2000 - 1, 2001 - 02 and 2003 - 04 he noted that INR
6 374602/- was already added back by the assessee of to its total income in
earlier years. Therefore he deleted the above amount from the deduction and
sustained the balance addition of INR 2 041449/-. Therefore, against the order
of the learned CIT - A assessee is in appeal as per ground number 1 of the
appeal and the revenue is in appeal as per ground number 2. Both these grounds
of appeal being interconnected are taken together.
32\. The learned authorised representative supported the order of the learned
CIT - A the deletion of the disallowance is concerned and with respect to the
addition sustained is submitted that the same logic which has been given by
the learned CIT - A for deleting the addition applies to the extent of the
additions sustained by him as the learned assessing officer has failed to
bring on record any material that these expenditure have been allowed to the
assessee in earlier years. He submitted that in absence of this the learned
CIT - A should have deleted the whole disallowance.
33\. The learned CIT DR vehemently supported the order of the learned
assessing officer and submitted that the learned CIT - A has wrongly deleted
the above disallowance.
34\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. We have carefully perused the paragraph number 5 of
the order of the learned CIT - A where in the assessee has submitted a
detailed chart assessment year -wise showing the provisions created,
provisions debited, and additional provisions made an amount disallowed in
Page | 51 the return of income. On the basis of the above analysis the learned
CIT - A noted that a sum of INR 1 54606/- was disallowed by the assessee in
assessment year 2000 - 01, Rs. 2886114 in assessment year 2001 - 02 and Rs
3333882/- in assessment year 2003 - 04 and therefore he held that the assessee
itself has disallowed the above sum amounting in all INR 2 6374602/- in the
earlier years and therefore out of the sum of INR 80 416051/- a sum of INR 6
374602 is not following under the provisions of section 41 (1). He therefore
held that the addition made by the learned assessing officer to that extent of
INR 6 374602/- is not sustainable. We do not find any infirmity in the order
of the learned CIT - A to that extent. Further with respect to the
disallowance of INR 2 041449/- of the balance sum sustained by the learned CIT
- A, the assessee could not show that whether these expenditure have already
been disallowed by the assessee in the earlier years or not and therefore in
absence of such details, the additions cannot be deleted. In view of this we
find no infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A in upholding the
disallowance of INR 2 041449/-. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the appeal of
the assessee and ground number 2 of the appeal of the revenue are dismissed.
35\. Ground number 2 of the appeal of the assessee is with respect to
confirmation of the addition of security deposit received by the appellant
over the years amounting to INR 3 40542851/-. The appellant, in the course of
carrying on the business of running and maintenance of golf course, popularly
known as „Classic Golf Course‟, receives membership fee from its members for
use of golf course and the club facility. Broadly stated, there are two types
of members, viz., individual member and corporate member. Every member
admitted to membership signs the membership plan and is bound by the rules and
regulations. In terms of the membership plan, every individual member is
required to pay security deposit, membership entrance fee, advance membership
fee, subscription fee, etc. A corporate member is, however, not required to
pay any security deposit. In the audited financial statements for the year
ended 31.03.2005 (the year under consideration), the appellant had, in
`Schedule 12‟ thereto under the heading „Current Liabilities‟, disclosed/
shown `Other liabilities‟ of Rs.34,05,42,851 as under:-
> Page | 52 Payment received against Golf course Rs. 3,52,88,416 membership
> Security Deposit against Golf Course Rs.31,14,60,578 membership Total
> Rs.34,67,48,994 Less: Membership subscription receivable Rs. 62,06,143 Net
> Amount Rs.34,05,42,851 In the assessment order, the assessing officer held
> the aforesaid amount of Rs.34,05,42,851 to be in the nature of trading
> receipt taxable under the provisions of the Act. On appeal, the said
> addition made by the assessing officer was upheld by the CIT(A). Therefore,
> assessee is in appeal before us.
36\. The learned authorised representative vehemently contested the orders of
the lower authorities. He submitted a detailed note as under :- " Rs.
34,05,42,851 includes `Payment received against Golf course membership‟ of Rs.
3,52,88,416, which is in the nature of advance membership fees offered for
taxation as income on pro-rata basis. The same amount of Rs. 3,52,88,416 has
already been offered for tax in subsequent year(s). The assessing officer also
regarded the said amount as part of security deposit to make addition of the
same, which is patently erroneous and has resulted in double taxation of the
same amount. Further, the CIT(A), while approving the action of the assessing
officer observed that since membership fees has been utilized for creation of
fixed assets which in turn have been used by the members, deferment of income
is therefore, not relevant in facts and circumstances of the case. In this
regard, it is respectfully submitted that the aforesaid allegation of the
CIT(A) is not tenable inasmuch as the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that:
(a) membership fees is taxable on accrual basis and not on receipt basis; and
Page | 53
(b) Since the appellant had already offered to tax the said amount in
subsequent year(s), the same income cannot be taxed twice.
As regards (a) above, it is submitted that it is quite elementary that in
mercantile system of accounting, amount is taxed as income in the year in
which the same accrues. The concept of "income" and its accrual is judiciously
well settled and reference, in this regard, may be made to the following
decisions. In the landmark decision rendered by the Supreme Court in the case
of E. D. Sassoon and Co. Ltd. v. CIT: 26 ITR 27, the question was raised as to
when the commission for managing agency linked with annual net profits of the
managed company accrues or arises. After deliberating on the concept of
"accrual of income" as a whole, the Supreme Court laid down that income must
be held to accrue at the point of time when the assessee contributed to its
accruing or arising and a debt becomes due. The Supreme Court held as under:
> "...... It is clear therefore that income may accrue to an assessee without
> the actual receipt of the same. If the assessee acquires a right to receive
> the income, the income can be said to have accrued to him though it may
> received later on its being ascertained. The basis conception so that he
> must have acquired a right to receive the income. There must be a debt owned
> to him by somebody...... Unless and until there is created in favour of the
> assessee a debt due by somebody it cannot be said that he has acquired a
> right to receive the income or that income has accrued to him...... But in
> order that the income can be said to have accrued to or earned by the
> assessee it is not only necessary that the assessee must have contributed to
> its accruing or arising by rendering services or otherwise but he must have
> created a debt in his favour. A debt must have come into existence and he
> must have acquired a right to receive the payment...
The mere expression "earned" in the sense of rendering the service etc. by
itself is of no avail." (Emphasis supplied) Page | 54 In view of the above
observation, it is clear that for the accrual of income two conditions are
cumulatively required to be satisfied, i.e. (a) the assessee must have
contributed to accruing or arising of income by rendering services or
otherwise; and (b) a debt must be created in the favour of the assessee. One
of the necessary conditions of accrual, thus, is that a debt must have come
into existence and the assessee must have acquired a right to receive the
payment. Unless and until his contribution or parenthood is effective in
bringing into existence a debt or a right to receive the payment or in other
words, debitum in praesenti, solvendum in futuro, it cannot be said that any
income has accrued to the assessee. It will kindly be appreciated that advance
membership fees is received for rendering services to the members in
subsequent years and hence the appellant has not contributed to its earning in
the year under consideration. Therefore, advance membership fees could not be
regarded as income accrued in favour of the appellant in the year under
consideration. Applying the aforesaid principle, advance membership fees has
been held to be taxable on pro-rata basis in the following decisions:
>  CIT vs. T. N. K. Govindarajulu Chetty : 165 ITR 231 (SC) - Held that
> interest received for 2 years is to be spread over according to the
> mercantile system of accounting  Rama Bai &Ors. V. CIT : 181 ITR 400 (SC) 
> CIT v. Dinesh Kumar Goel : 331 ITR 10 (Del.)  CIT v. Punjab Tractor Co-
> operative Muli-purpose Society Ltd. :
> 234 ITR 105 (P&H)- Amount received in advance under post warranty service
> charges, Held that amount pertaining to the year under consideration could
> only be taxed not the entire amount received  CIT v. Coral Electronics (P)
> Ltd. : 274 ITR 336 (Mad)  CIT v. Hindustan Computers Ltd. : 233 ITR 366
> (All)  ACIT and DCIT vs. Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Ltd: 131 TTJ 1
> (ITAT (SB) - Chennai))  Treasure Island Resorts (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT : 90 ITD
> 814 (Hyd) Page | 55  Akash Lavlesh Leisure (P) Ltd v. ITO: 78 taxmann.com
> 338 (Hyd.)  T.K. International Ltd. v. ACIT : 91 ITD 481 (Cuttack) -
> Consideration received towards sale of time share for 99 years - held
> taxable over the years in which assessee was to provide services and
> facilities As regards (b) above, it is emphatically reiterated that since
> the appellant had already offered to tax the said amount in subsequent
> year(s), the same amount cannot be taxed twice in the year under
> consideration merely because the amount received has been utilized for
> creation of fixed assets. For the aforesaid reasons, addition to the extent
> of Rs.3,52,88,416, being advance membership fees offered to tax on pro-rata
> basis, is liable to be deleted."
> 37\. The learned Commissioner of income tax Department representative
> vehemently relied upon the order of the learned CIT - A and the learned
> assessing officer. He extensively referred to the paragraph number 7 of the
> learned CIT - A and submitted that both these receipts are revenue in nature
> and therefore chargeable to tax in the end of the assessee in the year in
> which they received. He therefore submitted that there is no infirmity in
> the order of the lower authorities.
38\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities on the issue. The learned CIT - A has decided the
whole issue as per paragraph number 7.1 - 7.7 of his order. Undisputedly the
assessee is running a golf course and making the revenue collection by way of
refundable security deposit and membership fees from the members. This
indicates that the assets are fully operation and the members are deriving a
benefit from the use of the assets. As such, it is not in dispute that
appellant is carrying on the business of running of golf course. Facts shows
that the assessee has received certain security deposits and membership fees
collected by the appellant from the members along with the borrowed funds were
utilized for the creation of the fixed assets by the assessee. The learned CIT
- A following the decision of the honourable Page | 56 Supreme Court income
Calcutta stock exchange Association Ltd and Delhi stock exchange Association
Ltd held that the security deposit received from the members are not capital
receipt but are revenue receipts and are taxable as income of the appellant.
He further held that nature of such security deposit is whether refundable or
non-refundable is immaterial. He further noted that though the assessee has
offered the golf course membership fees of INR 3 5288416/- as income in
subsequent years such deferment of income is not relevant on the facts and
circumstances of the case of the appellant as the membership fees received by
the assessee is also assessable as income for the assessment year in which it
is received. He further noted that it is a fact that unless the security
deposits and membership fees were paid by the members, the appellant would not
have granted the membership of the golf club to those members. He therefore
held that both this sum of the security deposit as well as the membership fee
has correctly been charged by the learned assessing officer as income of the
assessee. The learned CIT - A with respect to the entrance fees and membership
fees has followed the decision of the honourable Supreme Court in case of
Calcutta stock exchange Association Ltd 36 ITR 222 and Delhi stock exchange
Association Ltd 41 ITR 495 wherein it has been held that entrance
fee/membership fees received from the members is an income.
39\. On careful analysis of the order of the learned CIT - A, according to us
he has wrongly applied the decision of the Calcutta stock exchange Ltd and
Delhi stock exchange Ltd. In Calcutta stock exchange Ltd the issue of the
monthly fees received by the assessee. Therefore, it cannot be said that if
the fees received which is pertaining to the year itself it cannot be said not
to be the income of the assessee. In the case of the assessee, assessee has
received advance membership fees for which the services were to be rendered in
subsequent years and assessee has already offered such income in the
subsequent years on accrual basis. It is not the case of the revenue that
assessee has not offered golf course membership fees income in the year to
which it pertains to. It is also not the case of the revenue that assessee
provides all the services to the members in the year in which the membership
fee is received, and in subsequent years, no services were Page | 57 rendered.
The membership fees are chargeable to tax under the provisions of the business
income. The assessee follows undisputedly, mercantile/accrual system of
accounting. Therefore, income/expenses of the assessee are also required to be
recorded as income only based on accrual system. Thus, whenever the Income
accrues to the assessee irrespective of the time of receipt of such income is
taxable as business income. Under the mercantile system of accounting, the
assessee has an option to account for any income either on accrual or after
accrual, on the basis of method of accounting regularly followed by it . So
far as the issue of the entrance fee and membership fees received by the
assessee, we are of the opinion that it should be accounted for as income only
when it accrues to the assessee. Merely because the income, which is
pertaining to subsequent years, is received by the assessee in earlier years
does not become the income of the earlier years under section 5 of the income
tax act in case of either business income or u/s 28. Hence, according to us,
the membership fee income of the assessee should be chargeable to tax in the
year to which it pertains. Therefore, we reverse the finding of the learned
CIT - A in holding that that a sum of INR 3 5288416 received as golf course
membership fee is chargeable to tax as income. As such, it is the claim of the
assessee that subsequently such income has already been offered for taxation
therefore for the year to which it pertains. Therefore, we direct the learned
assessing officer to tax the above income of INR 3 5288416 as Income for the
impugned assessment year to which it pertains to. Therefore, if the assessee
has offered the income, to the year to which it pertains to, the addition is
required to be deleted. However, it is not known that how much income is
pertaining to which year, therefore, we direct the assessee to show before the
assessing officer about the taxability of this income in the subsequent years
on accrual basis. The learned assessing officer may verify the same and if the
income has been offered in subsequent years on accrual basis, the addition
deserves to be deleted in this year.
40\. With respect to the issue of taxability of the security deposit against
the golf course membership fee of INR 3 11460578/-, the claim of the assessee
is that such security deposit is refundable in nature. It is required to be
Page | 58 refunded to the members at the end of the specified years or as per
the terms of the membership. If the membership is refundable to the members,
it becomes a liability of the assessee, which is required to be repaid. It is
not the case of the revenue that assessee do not refund or under no obligation
to refund the above sum at the end of the specified period or on happening of
certain events. The identical issue arose before the honourable Gujarat High
Court in principal Commissioner of income tax vs. Gulmohar Green Golf and
country club Ltd 392 ITR 601 (2017) (Gujarat) wherein it was been held that
the security deposit recovered from the members at the time of their enrolment
as a member is refundable on occurrence of the contingency mentioned in the
rules and regulation and bylaws, therefore it is required to be treated as a
deposit, thus, a capital receipt. Therefore, it was held that it is not an
income of the assessee. As in the case of the assessee also the security
deposit is refundable hence respectfully following the decision of the
honourable Gujarat High Court in 392 ITR 601, we also hold that the sum of
refundable security deposit received from the members of the assessee is a
capital receipt and cannot be charged to tax as income. Accordingly, we direct
the learned assessing officer to delete the addition to the extent of
refundable deposit received from the members. Accordingly, ground number 2 and
3 of the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
41\. Now we come to ground number 4 of the appeal of the assessee wherein the
learned CIT - A has upheld the disallowance of INR 7 229915/- on account of
bad debt/advances written off in the normal course of the business. During the
relevant assessment year under consideration, the appellant claimed deduction
of bad debts/advances written off aggregating to Rs. 72,29,903, since there
was no possibility of any recovery against the said debts/advances. Details of
the bad debts/advances written off are placed at pages 98-103 of the paper
book. The assessing officer, in the assessment order, proceeded to disallow
the claim of bad debts written off by the appellant by holding that the
appellant had not been able to furnish the details of exact nature of debt,
the year of its approval, the reasons of dispute, etc., to establish the
genuineness of the debt. On appeal, the aforesaid disallowance was affirmed in
appeal by the CIT(A) on the ground Page | 59 that the same comprises of bad
debts written off amounting to Rs. 12,86,282 and advances written off
amounting to Rs. 59,43,633. Insofar as bad debts written off is concerned,
since evidence of fulfillment of conditions of section 36(1)(vii) of the Act
was not furnished, the same was upheld. As regards, advances written off, the
same was held to be towards capital expenditure and hence held to be not
allowable as deduction.
42\. The learned authorised representative submitted that The aforesaid action
of the assessing officer in making disallowance of deduction claimed for bad
debts/advances written off is not sustainable for the reasons elaborated in
the note submitted as hereunder:
> "It is, at the outset, respectfully submitted that bad debts/advances
> written off by the appellant related to debts arising/advances made in
> earlier years. On perusal of the details placed at pages 98-103 of paper
> book, it will be noticed that the debts/ advances written off arose in the
> normal course of business and, therefore, write off of such debts based upon
> the commercial decision taken by the management of the appellant having
> regard to there being no chance of recovery out of the said debts/advances,
> were allowable as bad debt and/or loss incidental to the business.
> It is respectfully submitted that advances/ deposits were given by the
> appellant in the ordinary course of carrying on the business, and, thus, if
> any such amount become irrecoverable, the same would be, it is submitted,
> allowable as trading loss under section 28 of the Act.
> Attention in this regard is invited to the decision of the Delhi Bench of
> the Tribunal in the case of Minda HUF v. JCT: 101 ITD 191. In that case the
> Tribunal was pleased to hold that the CIT (A) erred in not allowing the
> claim of the assessee in respect of the advances written off which had
> become irrecoverable. The relevant observations of the Tribunal are
> reproduced herein-below for ready reference:
> "We have carefully considered the entire material on record and the rival
> submissions. From the details furnished by Page | 60 the assessee in the
> paper book it is found that the assessee had given full details of each
> item. The amounts represented advances given to the parties. The advances
> were given during the course of business for supply of raw material etc.
> Either the material was not supplied or defective material was supplied.
> The amount became irrecoverable from the parties to whom the advances were
> made. Thus, the advances were totally connected with the business activities
> of the assessee. The learned CIT(Appeals) was not justified in observing
> that the amount of advance was not a trading loss. After seeing the details
> of amounts, it is observed that the assessee was not required to take a
> lengthy litigation for recovering the small amounts. In our opinion,
> therefore, the approach of the learned CIT(A) is not justified." (Emphasis
> supplied) Reliance in this regard is also placed on the following decisions:
>  CIT v. Mysore Sugar Co. Ltd.: 46 ITR 549 (SC)  CIT v. Triveni Engg. &
> Industries Ltd.: 343 ITR 245 (Del)  Mohan Meakin Ltd. v. CIT: 348 ITR 109
> (Del)  Kwality Fun Foods and Restaurants (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT: 356 ITR 170
> (Mad)  Devi Films Private Ltd. vs. CIT: 75 ITR 301 (Mad.)  CIT v. Inden
> Biselers: 181 ITR 69 (Mad.)  P. Satyanarayana v. CIT: 116 ITR 803 (AP) 
> CIT v. H. P. Lohia: 77 Taxman 476 (Cal)  CIT v. Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co.
> Ltd.: 9 Taxman 76 (Cal.)  CIT v. Sethu Film Distributors: 212 ITR 620(Mad)
>  CIT v. Abdul Razak & Co.: 136 ITR 825(Guj)  Salora International Ltd. v.
> JCIT: 129 Taxman 68 (Del.)  CIT V. Shreyans Industries Limited: 207 CTR 281
> (P&H)  DCIT vs. M/s Edelweiss Capital Ltd.: ITA No:
             3971/Mum/2009 (Mum ITAT)
                                                                     Page | 61
              CIT v. Claridges Investment & Finance Pvt. Ltd.: 18 SOT 390
              (Mum ITAT)
             ITO v. Gokaldas Pragji: 24 ITD 25 (Ahd. ITAT)
             Gujarat Fluoro Chemicals Ltd. v. JCIT: 76 TTJ 313 (Ahd.)
             Asst. CIT v. Shantilal Balabhai: 74 TTJ 506 (Ahd.)
             ITO vs. Ashok Kumar Lalitkumar: 53 ITD 326 (Ahd.)
> It is further submitted that advances primarily related to tour expenses,
> advances for organizing party, advance for laundry services, advances to
> employees, advance for vehicle repair, advance for painting, etc., (refer
> details of expenses placed at pages 98-103 of the paper book). Therefore, it
> is not correct to hold that such advances were for procuring capital
> expenditure.
> That apart, even insofar as advances for procuring capital assets was
> considered, in the following decisions it has been held that where the asset
> does not come into existence, then the expenditure incurred is allowable as
> revenue expenditure:
>  CIT v. Priya Village Roadshows : 332 ITR 594 (Del.)  Indorama Synthetics
> Ltd v. CIT: 333 ITR 18 (Del.). Expenses relating to setting up of new unit
> for expansion of its business operations, which was later abandoned was held
> to be revenue expenditure  CIT v. Vardhman Spinning &General Mills: 176
> Taxman 157 (P&H)  Asiatic oxygen Ltd. v. CIT :190 ITR 328 (Cal.) 
> Hindustan Aluminium Corporation ltd. v. CIT: 159 ITR 673 (Cal.)  CIT v.
> Graphite India Ltd. : 221 ITR 420 (Cal)  CIT v. Coromandal fertilizers: 247
> ITR 417 (AP)  Enpro India Ltd. v. DCIT:113 Taxman 132 (Del. Trib.) Page |
> 62  CIT v. Honda Siel Power Products Ltd. : ITA No. 758/2008  Sutlej
> Industries Ltd. v. ACIT : 94 TTJ 108 (Del) It is thus submitted that merely
> because part of the advances related to acquisition of a capital asset could
> not have been the basis for disallowing the write off since no asset came
> into existence. In view of the aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that
> the action of the assessing officer in not allowing deduction of the
> aforesaid sum of Rs. 72,29,915 is not tenable and, hence, calls for being
> reversed."
> 43\. The learned departmental representative vehemently supported the order
> of the learned CIT - A and submitted that when the expenditure incurred by
> the assessee is for the purpose of advances paid for capital expenditure,
> they are not allowable as there u/s 37 (1) or u/s 28 of the income tax act.
He further submitted that even as such, these expenditure are not incurred
during the year but are advances. Unless the assessee proves that the assessee
has incurred the loss by writing of these advances during the year, it cannot
be allowed. Further, the writing of advance is a loss, which has to be on
revenue account. Even under section 28, the loss, which is of capital nature,
is not at all allowable. He therefore submitted that the advances written off
by the assessee for purchase of capital asset is not an allowable loss or
expenditure under the income tax act.
44\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The assessee has placed the details of bad debts,
loans etc written off during the year under consideration at page number 98
\- 103 of the paper book. On careful verification of these details, it is
found that the expenses incurred by the assessee in the form of advances to
various parties are for various expenditure of revenue nature. Certain
advances were also given for material which if would have purchased would have
been fallen in the category of repairs and maintenance. Certain amount of
advances and security deposit is given to various parties are also for the
purposes of pity services. However a sum of INR 3 47700 was also provided for
the purchases of the computer. Further sum of INR 6 72119/- is also paid for
purchase of computers. However, it is stated that no such Page | 63 computer
is purchased but the amount is written off. It is not in dispute that assessee
has purchased the computers but has not adjusted the advances. Therefore,
undoubtedly, such advances were for purchase of capital assets, which have
never been acquired by the assessee. To justify the claim of the allowability
assessee has relied upon the decision of the honourable Delhi High Court in
case of Indo Rama synthetics Ltd vs. Commissioner of income tax 333 ITR 18
(Del). We found that in that particular decision the claim was with respect to
allowability of certain expenditure in the nature of salary, wages, repairs,
maintenance, design and engineering fees along with other expenditure of
revenue administrative nature. It was not the case of advances given for
purchase of a capital asset. It is also not the case of the assessee that
advances given by it for the golf course of business, never came into
existence. Thus, reliance on these decisions is misplaced. Reliance placed on
another decision of the honourable Delhi High Court in CIT v. Priya Village
Roadshows : 332 ITR 594 (Del.) is also misplaced because the issue before the
honourable court was with respect to the claim of allowability of a
feasibility study report expenditure for the existing business which even
otherwise would have been allowed as revenue expenditure. In the present case,
advances for the capital goods such as computers et cetera would as such could
not have been allowed to the assessee as revenue expenditure. We have also
perused other judicial precedents also raised before us, however, we are not
impressed to allow the claim of the assessee, as none of the decision cited
before us relates to advances written off for purchase of a capital asset
given in earlier years was involved. Further, for the claim of allowability
u/s 28, loss should be of revenue nature. For the claim of allowability u/s 37
(1) of the act, the expenditure should be of revenue nature. Therefore, the
prime condition that is required to be satisfied by the assessee is that that
expenditure is revenue in nature. According to us the advances given for
purchase of capital goods, cannot be considered to be revenue in nature, when
they are written off. In view of this, we do not find any infirmity in the
order of the learned CIT - A, in principle, that the advances given for the
purchase of capital goods he further written off in this year is a capital
expenditure. With respect to the allowability of bad debts, there is no Page |
64 infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A mentioned in para number 10.2
of his order that such advances should have been shown as income in the
earlier years. In view of this, we dismiss ground number 4 of the appeal of
the assessee.
45\. In the result ITA number 4536/Del/2009 for assessment year 2005 - 06
filed by the assessee is partly allowed.
46\. Now we come to the appeal filed by the learned assessing officer in ITA
number 4721/Del/2009 for assessment year 2005 - 06.
47\. The first ground of appeal is general in nature and therefore it is
dismissed.
48\. The second ground of appeal is related to ground number 1 of the appeal
of the assessee. This ground has already been decided while deciding the
ground number 1 of the appeal of the assessee wherein we have held that there
is no infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A in deleting the
disallowance of INR 6 374602/-. Hence, this ground of appeal is dismissed.
49\. The ground number 3 is with respect to the deletion of addition of INR 1
95950000/- because of undisclosed income on sale of land. The learned
assessing officer noted that profit and loss account of the assessee for the
impugned assessment year reflects sale of land as a measure 31 canals (3.25
acres or 1550 0 yd²) for a consideration of Rs, 4 crores. The cost of the
above land was INR 1 9071127/- and thus it resulted into taxable income of INR
2 0928872/-. The learned AO asked the assessee to justify the market price of
such land through furnishing of comparable instances. The assessee did not
furnish the same. Therefore the learned AO noted that in the contiguous plot
of land and high-end residential apartments were constructed and sold by the
company in financial year 2000 to 2003 which yielded a profit of INR 1 3.52
crores. AO noted that assessee has sold 22.69 acre of land on 26/2/2001 at the
rate of INR 1.90 crores per acre to ITC Ltd. Further on 17/3/2003 4.43 occurs
were sold to ITC at the rate of Rs. 2 .03 crores per acre. He compared the
situation of the plot sold during the year with the plots sold in the earlier
year and found that assessee has under shown the sale consideration.
Therefore, he noted that the estimated sale price should have been Rs. 7.26
Crore per acre resulting into the sale consideration of INR 2 35950000/-
instead of only INR 40,000,000 is shown by the assessee thus, he made an
addition of INR 1 95950000/- as Page | 65 suppression of the sale
consideration. The matter reached to the learned CIT - A who deleted the
addition. Therefore, revenue is in appeal.
50\. The learned departmental representative vehemently supported the order of
the learned assessing officer and submitted that when the sale price of the
plot of land earlier was stated to be much higher, the sale consideration
shown by the assessee is definitely understated. He further submitted that
assessee did not furnish the comparative sale instances. He further stated
that assessee also failed to explain the understated price, which is highly
incompatible with the actual sale made by the assessee in earlier. He
therefore submitted that the addition made by the learned assessing officer
should have been sustained by the learned CIT - A.
51\. The learned authorised representative vehemently submitted that the
assessing officer has made the addition based on the conjectures and surmises
and false and baseless allegation of suppression of the sale consideration
from sale of land. He submitted that there is no evidence available with the
learned assessing officer that the actual sale consideration received is not
the real consideration received by the assessee and assessee has received much
more than whatever is stated in the sale deed. He further stated that in
absence of any evidence of actual receipt of sale consideration outside the
books of accounts unless brought on record by the learned assessing officer no
addition should have been made under the provisions of the law. He further
stated that the full value of the consideration received has been shown which
cannot be construed as the market value but must be taken to be the price
bargained by the parties to the sale. He referred and relied upon the decision
of the honourable Supreme Court in 66 ITR 622/- and 131 ITR 597. He further
referred to the decision of the honourable Delhi High Court in 309 ITR 233
(Del) wherein it has been categorically held that the provisions of section 48
of the act does not have any reference to the market value but only to the
consideration referred to in the sale deed as the sale price of the assets
which have been transferred. He further referred to the plethora of the
decision to support its contention. He therefore submitted that the learned
CIT - A has correctly deleted the addition.
Page | 66
52\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. During the year under consideration, the assessee
had, vide sale deed dated 26th May, 2004, transferred a plot of land
admeasuring 31 canals 2 Marlas (about 3.89 acres), situated at Village
Sukhrali, Tehsil & Dist. Gurgaon to M/s. Green Max Estates Pvt. Ltd., for
total consideration of Rs. 4 crores . The cost of the said land was reflected
at Rs. 1,90,71,127 in the books of accounts, resulting in taxable `business
income‟ of Rs. 2,09,28,872, which was shown as income in the profit and loss
account. In the impugned assessment, the assessing officer, on the basis of
certain other transactions of sale of land/ flat, substituted actual
consideration of Rs. 4 crores by notional/ hypothetical amount of Rs.
23,59,50,000 and made addition of the difference amounting to Rs. 19,59,50,000
as alleged undisclosed income.
> "6.1 The findings of the A.O. in the assessment order as well as in the
> remand report & the written and oral submission(s) made on behalf of the
> appellant have been carefully considered. It has been the case of A.O. that
> the consideration shown by the appellant was not the real consideration, but
> this has been done without bringing on record any evidence- direct or
> inferential- in support of the same. It is a trite law that the onus to
> prove otherwise than the fact, lies on the person who alleges. It has been
> consistently held by the courts of laws that it is for the Revenue to
> establish that there has been an understatement of consideration by the
> assessee & the consideration actually received is more than the one
> disclosed before the tax authorities. In case the A.O. wants to make out a
> case that the assessee had received more consideration then he should have
> basic material and evidence in his hands, which suggest that the
> consideration exceeded the amount shown in the document. Reliance is placed
> on the decisions of the Supreme Court in CIT v. George Henderson Co
> Ltd(1967) 66 ITR 622(SC), CIT v. Gillanders Arbuthnot & Co (1973) 87 ITR
> 407(SC), K.P. Varghese v. ITO(1981) 131 ITR 597(SC), CIT V. Shivakami Co.
> (P) Ltd. (1986) 159 ITR 71 (SC) and CIT Vs. Godawari Corpn. Ltd. (1993) 200
> ITR 567 (SC ), wherein it has been held that unless there is evidence that
> more than what was stated was received, no higher price or value Page | 67
> can be taken to be the basis for computation of capital gains. Reliance is
> also placed on the decisions of the jurisdictional High Court of Delhi in
> CIT V. Gulshan Kumar (Deed.) (2002) 257 ITR 703 (Del.) & CIT V. Naresh
> Khattar HUF (2003) 261 ITR 664 (Delhi), CIT V. Sm. Sushila Devi (2002) 256
> ITR 179 (Delhi) and CIT v. Smt. Nilofer I. Singh (2009) 221 CTR 277/
> (2009)176 Taxman 252/(2008)14 DTR 108. These decisions make it more than
> clear that the expression „the full value of consideration‟ as contemplated
> in section 48 of the Act does not have any reference to the market value but
> only to the consideration referred to in the sale deeds or other supporting
> evidences as the sale price of the assets which have been transferred.
> 6.2 In the instant case, no material has been confronted by the department,
> so as to suggest that the assessee paid consideration of Rs. 23,59,50,000/-
> i.e. Rs. 7.26 crores per acre multiplied by 3.25 acres in place of Rs.
> 4,00,00,000/- . In the instant case, all that the A.O. has done is to rely
> upon the hypothetical sale price, which does not show or prove that there is
> some underhand dealing & consideration has passed more than what is
> disclosed by the assessee. The sale consideration disclosed by the assessee,
> supported by documentary evidence cannot be .disbelieved merely on the basis
> of a hypothetical sale price adopted by the Assessing Officer. In view of
> the aforesaid discussion, I am of the considered view that the A.O. has
> failed to adduce evidence on record in support of understatement of the sale
> consideration by the assessee. Therefore, A.O. is directed to adopt me sale
> consideration of the impugned plot of residential land at the figure as
> disclosed by the assessee. As a result, ground no.3 is allowed."
53\. The aforesaid land was, as stated above, sold by the assessee to Green
Max Estates (P) Limited vide sale deed dated 26thMay, 2004 for total sale
consideration of Rs. 4 crores. On perusal of the sale deed, it will be kindly
noticed that the entire sale consideration of Rs. 4 crores was received by the
assessee vide cheque No. 736042 dated 26thMay, 2004, drawn on Standard
Chartered Bank, Greater Kailash, New Delhi. The said cheque was deposited by
the assessee in its bank with Standard Chartered Bank. On perusal of Page | 68
the sale deed, it will also be kindly noticed that the stamp duty of Rs. 32
lacs was paid on the total sale consideration of Rs. 4 crores, which had been
duly accepted by the Stamp Authorities. Apart from the consideration of Rs. 4
crores received by the assessee, no other consideration was received the
assessee from the buyer against sale of aforesaid land in Village Sukhrali,
Tehsil & Dist. Gurgaon, Haryana. It is the emphatic submission of the assessee
that the assessing officer proceeded solely on conjectures and surmises to
make false and baseless allegation of suppression of sale consideration from
sale of land at Village Sukhrali, Tehsil & Dist. Gurgaon. It is respectfully
submitted that no evidence, whatsoever, has been brought on record by the
assessing officer to substantiate the baseless allegation of receipt of sale
consideration outside the books of accounts. Naturally, in the absence of any
evidence of actual receipt of sale consideration outside the books of accounts
by the assessee being brought on record, no addition could be made under the
provisions of the Act. Hon Supreme Court in the case of K.P. Varghese v. ITO:
131 ITR 597 has held that :
> "........ If, therefore, the revenue seeks to bring a case within sub-s.
> (2), it must show not only that the fair market value of the capital asset
> as on the date of the transfer exceeds the full value of the consideration
> declared by the assessee by not less than 15% of the value so declared, but
> also that the consideration has been understated and the assessee has
> actually received more than what is declared by him............. The revenue
> must go further and prove that the second condition is also satisfied.
> Merely by showing that the first condition is satisfied, the revenue cannot
> ask the court to presume that the second condition too is fulfilled, because
> even in a case where the first condition of 15% difference is satisfied, the
> transaction may be a perfectly honest and bona fide transaction and there
> may be no understatement of the consideration. The fulfillment of the second
> condition has, therefore, to be established independently of the first
> condition and merely because the first condition is satisfied, no inference
> can necessarily follow that the second condition is also fulfilled. Each
> condition has got to be viewed and established independently before sub-s.
> (2) can be invoked and the burden of Page | 69 doing so is clearly on the
> revenue. It is well-settled rule of law that the onus of establishing that
> the conditions of taxability are fulfilled is always on the revenue and the
> second condition being as much a condition of taxability as the first, the
> burden lies on the revenue to show that there is an understatement of the
> consideration and the second condition is fulfilled. Moreover, to throw the
> burden of showing that there is no understatement of the consideration, on
> the assessee would be to cast an almost impossible burden upon him to
> establish a negative, namely, that he did not receive any consideration
> beyond that declared by him."
The aforesaid observations of Hon. Supreme Court lay down a general
proposition of law that it is for the Revenue to prove that the assessee has
actually received money/cash more than what is declared by the assessee before
seeking to substantiate the apparent consideration by any fictional/notional
sum. It is trite law that in terms of section 45 read with section 48 of the
Act, what could be taxed is only the actual consideration received and the
same could not be substituted by any other amount unless there is positive
evidence to establish any receipt/ movement of money over and above the stated
consideration. In the case of CIT v. George Henderson And Co. Ltd.: 66 ITR 622
(SC), it is held that, the expression "full value of the consideration" could
not be construed as the market value but must be taken to be the price
bargained for by the parties to the sale. Further the assessee before the
learned CIT - A has clearly stated that the comparable sale of land to ITC Ltd
that the above agreement did not materialize and subsequently it was cancelled
since the assessee was not able to obtain the required permission and it is
still continues to be owned and possessed by the assessee. Even further, the
comparison of the sale of the plot of land with the sale of flat in the
adjoining area is not comparing apples with Apple but Apple with oranges.
Thus, in absence of any corroborative evidence of having received the
consideration higher than what has been stated in the sale deed and in the
books of account, the addition made by the learned assessing officer is not in
accordance with the law. In view of this, we do not find any infirmity in the
order of the learned CIT - A and deleting the above addition which is made
purely on the basis of the conjectures and Page | 70 surmises. Accordingly,
ground number 3 of the appeal of the revenue is dismissed.
54\. Now we come to ground number 4 of the appeal of the assessee where the
learned CIT - A has deleted the addition of Rs 497184511/- made by the learned
assessing officer being the long-term capital gain on transfer of ownership of
ITC Ltd. The above addition has been made subject to the exact details of the
date on acquisition cost of the land on protective basis and on substantive
made a basis the addition has been made in assessment year 2001 - 02 and 2003
- 04 on the basis of agreement to sale dated 16th/2/2001 and 17/3/2003. The
brief fact shows that assessee owns 238.25 acres of land in Haryana. Out of
which the assessee on 16/02/2001 entered into an agreement to sale for sale of
about 22.691 of land to ITC Ltd for a consideration of INR 450,000,000.
Further, on 17/03/2003, the assessee further entered into an agreement to sale
of 4.43 acres of land with ITC Ltd for a consideration of INR 90,000,000. Thus
out of the total consideration of INR 5 4 crores the assessee only received
53,50,00,000 but continued to retain possession of the said land and the sale
could not be affected in absence of various provisions from the government and
regulatory bodies. Ultimately, the above agreements were cancelled and the
entire money was refunded to the buyer. The learned assessing officer held
that there is a transfer of land in assessment year 2001 - 02 and 2003 - 04
and consequently the assessee was liable to pay tax on capital gain in those
relevant years. For assessment year 2001 - 02 and 2003 - 04 for the above
additions were deleted by the learned CIT - A and the order of the learned CIT
- A has been affirmed by the coordinate bench as per order dated 15/6/2016 in
ITA number 3549/del/2009 and 4847/2009. In view of this, it is apparent that
when the substantive addition has already been deleted on the merits of the
issue, the protective addition made during the year also does not survive.
55\. The learned CIT - A has dealt with the above issue as under:-
> "8. Ground of Appeal No.5 relates to the grievance of the appellant against
> the action of the Assessing officer in adding a sum of Rs.
49,7184,511/- on account of Long-term capita! gains on protective basis. It
was submitted on behalf of die appellant that the said issue is Page | 71
covered in favour of the appellant by the order of my predecessor-in- office
in appellant‟s own case for assessment year 2001-02.
8.1 I have carefully considered the findings of the Assessing Officer and the
written submissions made on behalf of the appellant. I find that the identical
issue in the appellant‟s own case was decided in its favour by my predecessor-
in-office in Appeal No. 141/2007-08 vide order dated 22-05-2009 for assessment
year 2001-02 by holding that "In totality of all the facts and circumstances,
I have come to the conclusion that in the present case there was neither sale
nor transfer of possession as covered in clause (i) to (v) of section 2(47) of
the Act.
......In view of the facts as discussed above, I do not find justification to
bring Rs.45 crores received by the appellant from I.T.C. as an Agreement to
Sale of land measuring 22.69 acres to Capital Gains Tax. The same is directed
to be deleted. "
8.2 On verification of the details furnished by the appellant during the
appellate proceedings, it is found that the appellant continues to hold
possession of the land and legal title over the land in question. Further, the
appellant still occupies and uses the aforesaid land for its business
activities. During the year under consideration neither any sale agreement and
/or any sale deed was executed nor was possession handed over to the party who
has paid the sale consideration in A.Y.2001-02 and 2003-04. In view of the
aforesaid, it can be safely concluded that the transfer of the land has not
taken place during the year under appeal and therefore, the question regarding
the taxability of the transfer of the impugned land under Capital Gains does
not arise during the year under consideration. As already mentioned above, the
identical issue in the appellant‟s own case was decided in its favour by my
predecessor-in- office in A. Y. 2001-02. As the facts and circumstances of the
case are pari materia with the case of. The appellant in A.Y. 2001-02, for the
reasons as discussed in the aforesaid order of my predecessor-in-office, this
ground of appeal is allowed."
Page | 72
56\. As the revenue could not point out that what is the trigger point of
taxing the above amount in this year and further in which year the transfer of
the capital asset has happened, the above addition has rightly been deleted by
the learned CIT - A. In view of this we do not find any infirmity in the order
of the learned CIT - A deleting the protective addition of Rs. 497184511/-.
Thus, ground number 4 of the appeal is dismissed.
57\. The ground number 5 of the appeal is with respect to the deletion of
addition of INR 2 031305/- made by the learned assessing officer on account of
interest disallowances. The above disallowance has been made by the learned
assessing officer on the basis of the cash flow statement attached with the
audited financial statements for the year ended on 31st of March 2005 holding
that the assessee had out of the fresh loan of INR 7.75 crores received from
ITC during the year under consideration utilized only INR 4.95 crores for
repayment of old Tom loan and interest due thereon. Thus, the learned AO held
that only 64 percentage of the new borrowed funds were utilized for non-
business purposes and therefore disallowed proportionate sum of INR 2031305/-
out of the total interest of INR 3 173915/-. The learned CIT - A deleted the
above addition after verification of the details holding that the out of the
total borrowing of INR 77,500,000 only INR 7 5,00,000, if at all, had been
utilized for repayment of the old borrowings and interest thereon of INR 4.95
crores. He further held that the learned assessing officer has not brought on
record anything to show that assessee has utilized the borrowed funds for non-
business purposes. Thus, he deleted the above disallowance.
58\. The learned departmental representative vehemently supported the order of
the learned assessing officer whereas the learned authorised representative
referred to the submission made before the learned CIT - A and findings
recorded by him.
59\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. On careful reading of para number 9.1 of the order
we do not find any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A wherein it
has been held that that fresh borrowing of INR 7.75 crore were utilized for
repayment of loan pertaining to earlier years and the purpose of the loan has
been accepted by the learned assessing officer, the disallowance made Page |
73 by the learned assessing officer is not sustainable. We also do not find
any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A mentioning the reasons for
deletion of the disallowance in para number 9.1 of his order. Accordingly,
ground number 5 of the appeal of AO is dismissed.
60\. The ground number 6 is against the deletion of the addition of INR 5
108772/- made on account of the excess depreciation claimed on the golf course
holding that golf course is a plant and machinery and not the building as
claimed by the learned assessing officer. The above issue has been squarely
dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2001 - 02
wherein we have held that the golf course is a plant and not a building. For
the same reasons given therein, we dismiss the ground number 6 of the appeal
of the AO.
61\. In view of this appeal number 4721/del/2009 for assessment year 2005 -
> 06 preferred by the learned assessing officer is dismissed.
> Penalty appeals u/s 271 (1) (c) for A Y 2005-06 Assessee and AO
62\. For assessment year 2005 - 06, the penalty proceedings were initiated by
the learned assessing officer u/s 271 (1) (C) of the act on completion of the
assessment proceedings as well as before the first appellate authority. The
learned AO levied the penalty u/s 271 (1) ( c) of the act as per the order
dated 14/3/2011 of INR 1 28005767/- on several additions made by the learned
assessing officer as under:-
a. provision no longer written back of INR 8 416051/- b. undisclosed income on
sale of land of INR 1 95950000/- c. treatment of security deposit of INR 3
40542851/- as income of the assessee d. disallowance of interest expenditure
of INR 2 031305/- e. disallowance of bad debts of INR 7 229915/-
f. disallowance of depreciation of INR 5 108772/- g. taxability of the long-
term capital gain on protective basis of Rs. 497184511/-
Page | 74
63\. Assessee preferred the appeal before the learned CIT - A who confirmed
the penalty on following issues only:-
> a. disallowance of bad debts or advances return of amounting to INR 7
> 229915/- upheld by the learned CIT - A b. Confirmation of the addition of
> INR 2 041449/- because of provision of liabilities returned back.
64\. Thus, the assessee is aggrieved by the confirmation of penalty on these
two above counts, and therefore it is in appeal in ITA number 4560/Del/2019.
65\. The revenue is also aggrieved with the order of the learned CIT - A in
deleting the penalty only on the one account that the learned CIT - A has
deleted the penalty on the taxability of non-refundable membership fee and
security deposit amounting to INR 3 40542851 as income chargeable to tax. Such
appeal is preferred in ITA number 4849/Del/2011.
66\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4560/Del/2011 for the Assessment Year 2005-06 against the order of the learned
Commissioner of income tax (appeals) -VII common New Delhi dated 16/8/2011
wherein the penalty levied by the learned assessing officer u/s 271 (1) (c) of
the income tax act as per order dated 14/3/2011 of INR 12,80,05,767/- has been
partly confirmed:-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the penalty
imposed under section 271(1 )(c) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 („the Act‟) on
disallowance of deduction of bad debts / advances written off aggregating to
Rs. 72,29,915 for alleged furnishing of inaccurate particulars of income.
1.1 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in not appreciating that the
claim made by the appellant was a bonafide claim and therefore, no penalty was
leviable under section 271(1 )(c) of the Act.
1.2 That the CIT(A) erred in holding that the conduct of the appellant creates
doubt about the bonafides and that there was no reasonable cause in not
disclosing the full particulars.
2\. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the penalty
imposed on account of addition of provision written back by the Page | 75
appellant amounting to Rs.20,41,449 out of total provision of Rs. 84,16,051
for alleged furnishing of inaccurate particulars of income.
2.1 That the CIT(A) has failed to appreciate that the claim made by the
appellant was a bonafide claim, which is clearly evident form the fact that:
(a) out of total provision of Rs.'84,16,051, provision of Rs.
63,74,602 was allowed by the CIT(A), and
(b) the provision of Rs. 20.41,449 was sustained only due to non-
availability of old records.
2.2 That the CIT (A) erred in holding that the appellant filed to prove the
genuineness of its claim in respect of Rs. 20,41.449.
3\. That the CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in confirming the penalty
imposed without appreciating that the appellant has been consistently
incurring huge losses and has not been able to claim the set off of the said
losses even till date, which clearly establishes the bonafide of the
appellant."
67\. The brief fact shows that the learned assessing officer levied the
penalty of INR 128010000/- on all the additions made in the case of the
assessee for assessment year 2005 - 06, the learned CIT - A on the issue of a.
claim of the allowability of bad debts written off INR 7 229915/- upheld by
the learned CIT - A and confirmed by us also in this order b. Taxability of
sum of INR 2 041449/- u/s 41 (1) (a) of the act made by the learned assessing
officer and confirmed by the first appellate authority and the coordinate
bench.
68\. Thus, the penalty has been substantially deleted by the learned CIT - A
and the assessee is contesting confirmation of the penalty on the about two
counts only.
69\. On the issue of disallowance of INR 7 229915/- in respect of the bad
debts written off, before the learned assessing officer the assessee was not
able to furnish the details of the exact nature of the, the year of the
accrual, the reasons of the dispute and the evidence of a 4 speed for recovery
along with the evidence of litigations et cetera to establish the genuineness
of such claim. The above addition was sustained by the learned CIT - A and by
us Page | 76 in the appeal of the assessee. However, the issue here is whether
the assessee has furnished inaccurate particulars of income to that extent.
The claim of the assessee is that the assessee has return of the above sum on
the basis of the commercial decision taken by the management, as there are no
chances of the recovery. The claim of the assessee is that it is a business
loss or bad debts or allowability of expenditure u/s 37 (1) of the act. The
assessee also submitted that assessee could not furnish the details because of
the reason that operations of the assessee were closed in October 2006 on
account of lockout due to labor disturbances further due to this the office of
the assessee was vandalized by the labor union. Such facts were also
demonstrated by the police complaint of the assessee dated 5/10/2006. In view
of this, it was submitted that assessee has not been able to furnish certain
documentary evidences before the lower authorities however, the commercial
justification were given by the assessee. It was rejected. It was further
stated that there is no requirement of proving that the debt has become bad
during the year. The assessee submitted that bad debts amounting to INR 1
286282/- was confirmed for the reason that assessee failed to furnish the
evidence of fulfillment of the condition. Further with respect to the writing
of advances of INR 5 943633/- the assessee submitted the complete details.
Therefore, there is no reason of confirming the disallowance, which is
supported by the several judicial precedents. It was further stated that it is
a bona fide claim and therefore penalty should not be levied. However the
learned CIT - A confirmed the penalty vide para number 6.2 of his order as he
held that the default on the part of the assessee in not disclosing full
particulars was attributable to reasonable clause.
70\. With respect to the taxability of sum of INR 2 041449/- u/s 41 (1) (a) of
the act which was claimed to be because of the non availability of the
documentary evidences, it was submitted that the above sum was part of the
liabilities returned back and the provision is no longer required of INR 8
752240/-. The learned assessing officer disallowed the same whereas the
learned CIT - A upheld the disallowance of INR 2 041449/- holding that the
balance sum of INR 6 374602/- was already disallowed by the assessee in the
earlier assessment year and therefore the provisions of section 41 of the Page
| 77 income tax act does not apply. Thus disallowance of INR 2 041449 was
upheld. The same was also upheld by the coordinate bench. Therefore the levy
of the penalty was contested before the learned CIT - AO in para number 7.1 of
his order confirmed the same on the disallowance of INR 2 041449/-.
71\. Before us, during the course of hearing, the assessee has preferred an
application for admission of the additional ground invoking the rule 11 of the
income tax (appellate tribunal‟s) rules, 1963 stating that the penalty levied
by the learned assessing officer is beyond jurisdiction and bad in law. It is
further challenge that the satisfaction in the assessment order is not
properly recorded and further the notice issued on 18/12/2007 u/s 274 of the
act for initiating the penalty proceedings is without specifying any charge of
default. Thus, it was also prayed that the above issue is purely legal in
nature and goes to the root of the matter and therefore these additional
ground number 4 of the appeal should be admitted.
72\. The learned departmental representative vehemently contested the above
application of admission of the additional evidence and stated that such
grounds of never been raised before the learned lower authorities and
therefore now should not be admitted.
73\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and find that the above
ground of appeal is purely legal in nature and no further facts are required
to be investigated. Thus in the interest of justice, we admit the additional
ground raised by the assessee which is related to the jurisdictional facts
about the proper satisfaction as well as the initiation of the penalty
proceedings by the learned assessing officer.
74\. On the merits of the issue, the learned authorised representative
referred to the copy of the notice dated 18/12/2007 issued u/s 271 (1) © of
the act which is placed at page number 64 of the paper book wherein it has
been stated that penalty proceedings have been initiated on the assessee for
the concealment of the particulars of income or furnishing inaccurate
particulars of such income. The learned authorised representative submitted
that the penalty should be deleted on this ground itself. He further stated
that the claim of the assessee is also supported by the decision of the
honourable Karnataka High Court in 73 taxmann.com 241 Page | 78 against which
the special petition has been dismissed by the honourable Supreme Court in 242
taxman 180.
75\. The learned departmental representative vehemently contested the above
issue and stated that proper satisfaction has been recorded by the assessing
officer and it is a non-statutory notice, which has been referred by the
learned authorised representative.
76\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. We have also carefully considered the notice issued
by the learned assessing officer, which is placed at page number 64 of the
paper book wherein none of the twin charges have been struck off by the
learned assessing officer in notice dated 18/05/2007. Therefore, the issue
squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the decision of the Karnataka
High Court against which the special petition has been dismissed in 242 taxman
180 by the honourable Supreme Court. Further recently the honourable Delhi
High Court in [ITA number 475/2019 dated 2/8/2019] as per paragraph number 21
of that order has also upheld the view of the coordinate bench that notice
issued by the learned assessing officer would be bad in Law if it did not
specify under which limb of section 271 (1)
(c), penalty proceedings had been initiated. In view of this, we allow the
ground number 4 of the appeal of the assessee and direct the learned AO to
delete the penalty u/s 271 (1) (c) of the act.
77\. Accordingly we allow ITA number 4560/Del/2009 filed by the assessee for
assessment year 2005 - 06 against the penalty sustained by the learned CIT
\- A.
78\. The revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4849/Del/2011 for the Assessment Year 2005-06:-
"1. The order of the learned CIT (APPEALS) is erroneous & contrary to facts &
law.
2\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
CIT (A) has erred in deleting the penalty u/s 271(1) (c) of the Act levied by
the AO on the ground that the assessee furnished inaccurate particulars of
income by not showing non-refundable membership fee and security deposit
amounting to Rs. 34,05,42,851/- as income chargeable to tax.
Page | 79
3\. The CIT (A) erred in not appreciating the fact that penalty u/s 271(1)
(c) can be levied on civil infraction of law.
4\. The Ld. CIT (A) erred in not appreciating that the case position of law
was amply clear and there was no scope of difference in opinion on this issue.
Thus, the assessee intentionally chose not to declare income in respect of
membership fee and scrutiny deposit received during the year."
79\. As we have already crash the penalty order passed by the learned
assessing officer in ITA number 4560/Del/2011 holding that the notice issued
by the learned assessing officer does not specify the charge on which the
penalty is levied, on the basis of the decision of the honourable Karnataka
High Court against which the special leave petition by the honourable Supreme
Court is dismissed and also the decision of the honourable Delhi High Court on
that issue, we do not find any merit on this issue in the appeal filed by the
learned AO. Therefore the ITA number 4849/Del/2011 filed by the learned Asst
Commissioner of income tax, New Delhi is dismissed.
80\. Accordingly, in the penalty proceedings for assessment year 2005 - 06,
the appeal of the assessee is allowed an appeal of the revenue is dismissed.
AY 2007-08
81\. For the assessment year 2007 - 08, assessee filed its return of income
declaring loss of INR 6 8685141 on 27/10/2007. The assessment u/s 143 (3) of
the act on 30/12/2009 determining the total income of the assessee assessing
the total loss of INR 6 3950975/-. The learned assessing officer disallowed
the depreciation on the golf course amounting to INR 1 085614/- . He also held
that membership fees and non-refundable security deposit received of INR 3
648552/- is also assessable as the taxable income of the assessee. On appeal
before the learned CIT - A, he confirmed the addition of INR 3 648552/-
holding that membership fees on refundable security deposit received by the
assessee during the assessment year 2007 - 08 is income of the assessee.
Therefore, the assessee is aggrieved with the order of the learned CIT - A has
preferred this appeal. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal
in ITA No. 653/Del/2011 for the Assessment Year 2007-08:-
Page | 80 "1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the
addition of Rs.36,48,552 on account of membership fees and refundable security
deposit received during the assessment year 2007-08.
1.1 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the action of the
assessing officer without appreciating that Rs. 33,81,750 was received as
advance membership fees and was offered for tax on mercantile basis by the
appellant in the subsequent year(s) to which the same relates.
1.2 That the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that the Rs. 2,66,762 was amount
received on account of refundable security deposit owed by the appellant to
its individual members and the same could not, therefore, be regarded as
taxable income of the appellant."
82\. Both the parties submitted before us that this issue is covered in the
appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein, identical issue
arose. Therefore the submitted that their arguments on this issue are similar
to the arguments raised in that appeal on that issue.
83\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The only issue involved in this appeal is whether
the sum of Rs. 3381750/- received by the assessee as an advance membership
fees is chargeable to tax in this year or not. Further, refundable deposit of
INR 2 66762/- received by the assessee from individual members which is shown
by the assessee is a liability, is chargeable to tax as income of the assessee
or not. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in ground number 2 and 3 of
the appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2005 -
06\. Therefore, for the similar reasons given therein we hold that membership
fees received by the assessee of Rs. 3381750/- as advance membership fees, and
shall be chargeable to tax on the basis of the accrual income to which it
pertains. For such verification as in assessment year 2005 - 06, we set aside
the issue back to the file of the learned assessing officer. With respect to
the issue of taxability of the non-refundable security deposit we have already
hold that such receipt is not an income of the assessee. Accordingly, we hold
for this year too that non-refundable security deposit received by the
assessee is not an income chargeable to tax. Accordingly, ground number 1 of
the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
Page | 81
84\. In the result ITA number 653/del/2011 for assessment year 2007 - 08 filed
by the assessee is allowed.
Assessment Year 2008-09
85\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4098/Del/2011 for the Assessment Year 2008-09:-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the addition of
Rs.3,65,667 on account of membership fees and refundable security deposit
received during the assessment year 2008-09.
1.1 That the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that Rs. 1,44,000/- was received as
advance membership fees and was offered for tax on mercantile basis by the
appellant in the subsequent year(s) to which the same relates.
1.2 That the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that Rs. 1,85,667/- out of total
membership fees of Rs.3,65,667, was received on account of refundable security
deposit owed by the appellant to its members and the same could not,
therefore, be regarded as taxable income of the appellant.
1.3 That the CIT(A) erred in not adjudicating the alternative ground taken by
the appellant to the effect that the assessing officer having assessed
membership fees in the earlier assessment years, ought to have excluded the
very same amount from the taxable income of the appellant for the year under
appeal."
86\. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee
for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein we have held that membership fees
received in advance by the assessee is chargeable to tax on the accrual basis
to which it pertains to and the non-refundable security deposit received by
the assessee is a capital receipt not chargeable to tax as income in the hands
of the assessee. This is decided as per ground number 2 and 3 of the appeal of
the assessee for that year. Both the parties confirmed that there is no change
in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, for the similar reasons
we also hold that membership fees received in advance by the assessee is not
an income in this year but is chargeable to tax in the Page | 82 year in which
it has accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security
deposit received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1
of the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
87\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2008 - 09 is
allowed.
Assessment Year 2009-10
88\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
1516/Del/2014 for the Assessment Year 2009-10:-
1\. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the addition of
Rs.2,03,944 on account of refundable security deposit received by appellant
during the relevant assessment year, merely by following the CIT(A) orders for
preceding assessment years.
1.1 That the CIT (A) failed to appreciate that the security deposit received
by the appellant was in the nature of interest free security deposit and the
appellant was under a legal obligation to refund the same on a member ceasing
to be so.
1.2 That the CIT(A) failed to appreciate that the security deposit received by
the appellant was a continuing legal obligation and the same could not be
regarded as trading surplus/ income for the relevant assessment year."
89\. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee
for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein we have held that membership fees
received in advance by the assessee is chargeable to tax on the accrual basis
to which it pertains to and the non-refundable security deposit received by
the assessee is a capital receipt not chargeable to tax as income in the hands
of the assessee. This is decided as per ground number 2 and 3 of the appeal of
the assessee for that year. Both the parties confirmed that there is no change
in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, for the similar reasons
we also hold that membership fees received in advance by the assessee is not
an income in this year but is chargeable to tax in the year in which it has
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non-
Page | 83 refundable security deposit received by the assessee is not income.
Accordingly, ground number 1 of the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
90\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2009-10 is
allowed.
Assessment Year 2010-11
91\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4998/Del/2015 for the Assessment Year 2010-11:-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding the action of
assessing officer in making an addition of Rs.56,78,661/- on account of
security deposits and membership fees received during the relevant assessment
year.
1.1 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in not appreciating that the
amount received on account of refundable security deposit was amount owed to
the members and the same could not, therefore, be regarded as taxable income
of the appellant.
1.2 Without prejudice, the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law not excluding
membership fees already taxed in assessment for the earlier year(s) from the
taxable income of the appellant for the year under consideration."
92\. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee
for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein we have held that membership fees
received in advance by the assessee is chargeable to tax on the accrual basis
to which it pertains to and the non-refundable security deposit received by
the assessee is a capital receipt not chargeable to tax as income in the hands
of the assessee. This is decided as per ground number 2 and 3 of the appeal of
the assessee for that year. Both the parties confirmed that there is no change
in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, for the similar reasons
we also hold that membership fees received in advance by the assessee is not
an income in this year but is chargeable to tax in the year in which it has
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
93\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2009-10 is
allowed.
Assessment year 2011-12 Page | 84
94\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
4999/Del/2015 for the Assessment Year 2011-12:-
"1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding the action of
assessing officer in making an addition of Rs.37,06,534/- on account of
security deposits and membership fees received during the relevant assessment
year.
1.1 That the CIT (A) erred on facts and in law in not appreciating that, the
amount received because of refundable security deposit was amount owed to the
members and the same could not, therefore, be regarded as taxable income of
the appellant.
1.2 Without prejudice, the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law not excluding
membership fees already taxed in assessment for the earlier year(s) from the
taxable income of the appellant for the year under consideration."
95\. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee
for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein we have held that membership fees
received in advance by the assessee is chargeable to tax on the accrual basis
to which it pertains to and the non-refundable security deposit received by
the assessee is a capital receipt not chargeable to tax as income in the hands
of the assessee. This is decided as per ground number 2 and 3 of the appeal of
the assessee for that year. Both the parties confirmed that there is no change
in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, for the similar reasons
we also hold that membership fees received in advance by the assessee is not
an income in this year but is chargeable to tax in the year in which it has
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
96\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2011-12 is
allowed.
Assessment Year 2012-13
97\. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
138/Del/2016 for the Assessment Year 2012-13:-
"1. That the CIT (A) erred on facts and in law in upholding the action of
assessing officer in making an addition of Rs. 16,10,000/- on account Page |
85 of security deposits received from members during the relevant assessment
year.
1.1 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in not appreciating that the
amount received on account of refundable security deposit was amount owed to
the members and the same could not, therefore, be regarded as taxable income
of the appellant."
98\. Identical issue has been dealt with by us in the appeal of the assessee
for assessment year 2005 - 06 wherein we have held that membership fees
received in advance by the assessee is chargeable to tax on the accrual basis
to which it pertains to and the non-refundable security deposit received by
the assessee is a capital receipt not chargeable to tax as income in the hands
of the assessee. This is decided as per ground number 2 and 3 of the appeal of
the assessee for that year. Both the parties confirmed that there is no change
in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore, for the similar reasons
we also hold that membership fees received in advance by the assessee is not
an income in this year but is chargeable to tax in the year in which it has
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
       5. DR:ITAT
                                                                ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                                  ITAT, New Delhi
                                                                               Page | 86
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
              (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                         Assessment Year
             5582/Del/2010                           2004-05
             4721/Del/2009                           2005-06
     The Deputy Commissioner of                  Landbase India Ltd,
                                       Vs.
             Income Tax,                     25, Basant Lok, Community
              Circle-4(1),                      Centre, Vasant Vihar,
              New Delhi                              New Delhi
                                                 PAN: AAACI0053F
                                                                          Page | 1
               (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                           Assessment Year
             1030/Del/2019                             2001-02
             1031/Del/2019                             2003-04
             138/Del/2016                              2012-13
         Landbase India Ltd,                  The Assistant Commissioner
                                        Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                      of Income Tax
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
              (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                         Assessment Year
             5582/Del/2010                           2004-05
             4721/Del/2009                           2005-06
     The Deputy Commissioner of                  Landbase India Ltd,
                                       Vs.
             Income Tax,                     25, Basant Lok, Community
              Circle-4(1),                      Centre, Vasant Vihar,
              New Delhi                              New Delhi
                                                 PAN: AAACI0053F
                                                                          Page | 1
               (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                           Assessment Year
             1030/Del/2019                             2001-02
             1031/Del/2019                             2003-04
             138/Del/2016                              2012-13
         Landbase India Ltd,                  The Assistant Commissioner
                                        Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                      of Income Tax
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
              (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                         Assessment Year
             5582/Del/2010                           2004-05
             4721/Del/2009                           2005-06
     The Deputy Commissioner of                  Landbase India Ltd,
                                       Vs.
             Income Tax,                     25, Basant Lok, Community
              Circle-4(1),                      Centre, Vasant Vihar,
              New Delhi                              New Delhi
                                                 PAN: AAACI0053F
                                                                          Page | 1
               (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                           Assessment Year
             1030/Del/2019                             2001-02
             1031/Del/2019                             2003-04
             138/Del/2016                              2012-13
         Landbase India Ltd,                  The Assistant Commissioner
                                        Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                      of Income Tax
    Centre, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi                   Circle-15(1),
          PAN: AAACL0053F                                New Delhi
              (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                             ITA No. 4849/Del/2011
                            (Assessment Year: 2005-06)
    The Assistant Commissioner of                 Landbase India Ltd,
                                        Vs.
             Income Tax,                      25, Basant Lok, Community
             Circle-15(1),                     Centre, Vasant Vihar, New
              New Delhi                                    Delhi
                                                   PAN: AAACL0053F
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
          PAN: AAACI0053F                            New Delhi
              (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                         Assessment Year
             5582/Del/2010                           2004-05
             4721/Del/2009                           2005-06
     The Deputy Commissioner of                  Landbase India Ltd,
                                       Vs.
             Income Tax,                     25, Basant Lok, Community
              Circle-4(1),                      Centre, Vasant Vihar,
              New Delhi                              New Delhi
                                                 PAN: AAACI0053F
                                                                          Page | 1
               (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 ITA No.                           Assessment Year
             1030/Del/2019                             2001-02
             1031/Del/2019                             2003-04
             138/Del/2016                              2012-13
         Landbase India Ltd,                  The Assistant Commissioner
                                        Vs.
      25, Basant Lok, Community                      of Income Tax
    Centre, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi                   Circle-15(1),
          PAN: AAACL0053F                                New Delhi
              (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                             ITA No. 4849/Del/2011
                            (Assessment Year: 2005-06)
    The Assistant Commissioner of                 Landbase India Ltd,
                                        Vs.
             Income Tax,                      25, Basant Lok, Community
             Circle-15(1),                     Centre, Vasant Vihar, New
              New Delhi                                    Delhi
                                                   PAN: AAACL0053F
accrued to the assessee and as well as the non- refundable security deposit
received by the assessee is not income. Accordingly, ground number 1 of the
appeal of the assessee is allowed.
99\. In the result, appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2012-13 is
allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 26/08/2019.
               -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
           (BEENA A PILLAI)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 26 /08/2019
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
       1. Applicant
       2. Respondent
       3. CIT
       4. CIT (A)
