Gujarat High Court
National vs State on 22 April, 2011
Author: Mr.S.J.Mukhopadhaya,&Nbsp;Honourable Mr.Justice K.M.Thaker,&Nbsp;
       Gujarat High Court Case Information System 
    		   Print
    SCA/4404/2010	 31	JUDGMENT 
    IN
    THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
    SPECIAL
    CIVIL APPLICATION No. 4404 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA  
    				AND
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE K.M.THAKER
    =================================================
1
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
To be referred to the Reporter or not ? Yes 3 Whether their Lordships wish to
see the fair copy of the judgment ? No 4 Whether this case involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution of
India, 1950 or any order made thereunder ? No 5 Whether it is to be circulated
to the civil judge ? No =================================================
NATIONAL SEEDS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA & 3 - Petitioner(s) Versus STATE OF
GUJARAT THROUGH SECRETARY & 5 - Respondent(s)
================================================= Appearance :
DR RAJEEV DHAVAN, Sr. Advocate with MR SN SHELAT, Sr. Advocate with Ms HS
CHANDOKE, MR PRASHANT PAKHIDDEY, MR ABDULLYAH HUSSAIN and MR DILIP B RANA for
Petitioner(s) : 1 - 4.
MR PK JANI, GOVERNMENT PLEADER for Respondent(s) : 1 - 3.
NOTICE SERVED BY DS for Respondent(s) : 4 - 6.
MR PS CHAMPANERI for Respondent(s) :
6, ================================================= CORAM :
HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE
K.M.THAKER Date : 22/04/2011 CAV JUDGMENT (Per : HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA) This writ petition has been preferred by National Seeds
Association of India and others challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton
Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price)
Act, 2008 [hereinafter referred to as "the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008"] and the
price-fixation thereunder.
2\. The brief facts of the case are that the Essential Commodities Act was
enacted by the Parliament under Entry 33, List III of Schedule VII of the
Constitution of India to govern trade and commerce in different essential
commodities including "cotton seeds". In the year 1966, the Parliament passed
"Seeds Act, 1966" in exercise of power conferred under Entry 33, List III of
the Schedule VII of the Constitution to regulate the quality of certain seeds,
such as seeds of food crops, cotton seed, etc. to be sold for purposes of
agriculture; including horticulture.
In exercise of powers conferred under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities
Act, 1955 [hereinafter referred to as "the EC Act"], the Central Government
passed "Seeds (Control) Order, 1983". The Rules for manufacture, use, import,
export and storage of Hazardous Micro Organisms/Genetically Engineered
Organisms or Cells were framed by the Central Government in the year 1989
under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Under the said
provisions, Genetic Engineering Approval Committee approval is required for
all manufacture, storage, trade and commerce in genetically modified cotton
seeds.
In the year 2002, the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee approved various
Bt cotton hybrids. BG-I cotton seed sales commenced in all States in the year
2002. In the year 2006, Genetic Engineering Approval Committee approved
certain BG-II cotton seed hybrids. This was based on the performance report
submitted by the said Committee. The State of Gujarat by executive order dated
31.5.2006 fixed the maximum retail price of BG-I cotton seeds at Rs.750/- per
packet of 450 grms. Bt seed and 120 grms of refugia seeds. The maximum retail
price of BG-II was not fixed. During Kharif season, 2006, the maximum retail
price of BG-II cotton seed was fixed at Rs.1,350/- per packet. During Kharif,
2007, the maximum retail price of BG-I cotton seed was fixed at Rs.750/- per
packet and that of BG-II cotton seed was fixed at Rs.925/- per packet.
In December, 2006, the Parliament passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment)
Act, 2006, which came into effect on 12.2.2007. The 'cotton seed' was taken
out of the items listed in the Schedule as an 'essential commodity'. [emphasis
added].
The Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and
Fixation of Sale Price) Ordinance, 2008 was published by the State on
10.6.2008. It followed by the impugned notification dated 11.6.2008 passed
under Section 12 of the said Ordinance fixing the maximum retail price of Bt
cotton seed. Writ petition - Special Civil Application No. 8528 of 2008 was
filed challenging the notification as aforesaid. During pendency of the said
writ petition, the impugned Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply,
Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008 [hereinafter referred
to as "the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008"] was passed. In the earlier writ
petition - SCA No. 8528 of 2008 - wherein the notification dated 11.6.2008 and
the Ordinance of 2008 were under challenge, a Division Bench of this Court by
judgment and order dated 9.7.2009 repudiated the challenge on the ground that
'cotton seed' was no longer an 'essential commodity' under the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 by virtue of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act,
2006.
After the judgment was delivered, the Central Government issued notification
dated 22.12.2009 in exercise of powers conferred under Section 2A of the EC
Act bringing 'cotton seed' back into the list of 'essential commodities'.
According to the counsel for the petitioners, the EC Act, Seeds (Control)
Order, 1983 and the Seeds Act, 1966 again became applicable to 'cotton seeds'.
In view of the said notification dated 22.12.2009 bringing back the 'cotton
seed' into the list of 'essential commodities', the present writ petition has
been preferred challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008
on the ground of repugnancy.
3\. Dr Rajeev Dawan, learned senior counsel for the petitioners would contend
that if the Gujarat Legislature wishes to validate the Gujarat Cotton Seeds
Act, 2008 to the extent of the repugnancy, it can only do so under Article
254(2) of the Constitution of India by passing a fresh legislation and
obtaining Presidential assent as prescribed. He would further contend that
where two statutes occupy the same matter, Article 254(2) provides a mechanism
to save the State law with the consent of the President. Thus, in a sense, it
is the duty of the State Government to refer the matter to the President to
resolve conflict. But where the whole subject matter is intended to be dealt
with by the Union, any specific deviation must be referred by conceding the
referred statute covers the same subject matter as the Union legislation, and
can only be allowed to prevail with the Union's consent through the President.
Reliance was placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
Kiaser-I-Hind vs. National Textile Corporation, reported in (2002) 8 SCC 182.
Therein, the Supreme Court examined the provisions of Article 254 of the
Constitution and made its observations.
4\. The case of the petitioners is that after notification dated 22.12.2009
bringing back 'cotton seed' into the list of 'essential commodity', admittedly
no assent was sought from the President of India. It was the State's duty to
seek the President's assent for the Act even if there was a minor doubt
regarding repugnancy of any of the provisions. It was incumbent upon the State
to refer the matter to the President under Article 213(3) read with Article
254(2) of the Constitution of India. The said provisions exist as a safety
valve to avoid the sort of confusion created as in the present case.
5\. The learned counsel for the petitioners would contend that in view of the
changed legislation, the earlier judgment rendered by the High Court cannot be
relied upon for determination of repugnancy of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act,
2008.
6\. Thus, according to Dr Rajeev Dawan, learned senior counsel for the
petitioners, the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 is void to the extent of
repugnancy and assailed on the following grounds :-
(i) Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and
Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008 is now "void to the extent of repugnancy" in
respect of various Union legislations by virtue of Article 254 of the
Constitution of India because cotton seed has been re-included in the Schedule
of the Essential Commodities Act,1955 [hereinafter referred to as "the EC
Act"] by Government of India notification dated 22.12.2009 issued under
Section 2A of the EC Act.
(ii) In this case, the extent of repugnancy invalidates - (a) the entire
Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 because the EC Act is a comprehensive regulatory
legislation reposing all matters covered by its provisions exclusively with
the Union to the exclusion of the States or (b) alternatively the alleged
'saved" provisions of the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 are not severable from the
rest of the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 thereby invalidating the entire Act.
7\. Mr PK Jani, learned Government Pleader referred to the Statement and
Object of promulgation of the Gujarat Cottons Seeds (Regulation of Supply,
Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price), Ordinance, 2008. He would
contend that the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 is intended to regulate
supply, distribution, sale and fixation of sale price of cotton seeds which is
also evident from the Statement and Object of the said Act, 2008. According to
him, the EC Act is enacted essentially for the control of production, supply
and distribution of and trade and commerce, in certain commodities, which are
the essential commodities under the said Act. The Seeds Act, 1966 was enacted
essentially for the purpose of regulating the quality of certain seeds for
sale. The Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 has been issued under Section 3 of the
Essential Commodities Act, 1955. For the purposes of the Seeds Act and more
particularly for regulating the quality of any kind of variety of seed under
the said Act, it is sine qua non that the particular kind or variety of seed
is notified under Section 5 of the Seeds Act.
He would contend that the provisions of the Seeds Act, 1966 in their
application to the State of Gujarat regulate the quality of seeds in respect
of notified varieties, but Bt cotton seed is not notified under the said Act.
For the fast few years, in view of the substantial change of pattern of
agriculture particularly in usage of seeds, the provisions of the said Act.
are found to be inadequate for enforcement in respect of quality of Bt cotton
seeds and regulation of trade of non-notified cotton varieties, research
hybrid varieties, etc., as a result, the entire economy of farmers is
adversely affected. So far variety Bt cotton seed has never been notified by
the Central Government under Section 5 for the purposes of Seeds Act and
hence, Bt cotton seed has never been covered by the Seeds Act. Consequently,
the Seeds Rules framed under the Seeds Act do not apply to Bt cotton seed.
8\. With regard to competence of the State legislature to legislate, the
learned Government Pleader for the State would contend that Article 246(2) of
the Constitution empowers the Parliament as well as the State legislature both
to enact laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III i.e.
Concurrent List of Schedule VII to the Constitution. As per Article 254(1), if
any provisions of the State Act is repugnant to any provision of law made by
the Parliament with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent
List, the law made by the Parliament shall prevail and the law made by the
legislature of the State shall, to the extent of repugnancy, be void.
9\. According to the counsel for the State, under Article 254(2) of the
Constitution, the assent of the President is required in respect of the State
legislation made with reference to one of the matters enumerated in the
Concurrent List, if a particular provision of law is repugnant to the
provision of the existing law of the Parliament and in view of such assent,
the State legislation will prevail in that State. Thus, the question of
repugnancy arises only in connection with the subjects enumerated in the
Concurrent List as regards to which, both the Union and the State legislations
have concurrent powers to make legislations.
10\. The counsel for the State referred to Entry 33 and Entry 34 of List III
of Schedule VII of the Constitution and submitted that the State Act is
referable to Entry 33 as well as Entry 34 of List III and it cannot be held to
be repugnant. He placed reliance on different decisions of the Supreme Court
wherein the Court laid down the principles of construction in regard to
repugnancy which will be discussed at an appropriate stage.
11\. On behalf of the State, the learned Government Pleader accepted that some
of the provisions of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 is repugnant as the
Central Act holds the field. However, according to him, there is no conflict
between the State Act and the Central Act and there is no repugnancy with
regard to most of the provisions being not inconsistent or in conflict with
the Central Act. In order to appreciate the comparison between the main
provisions of various enactments, including the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act,
2008, Essential Commodities Act, Seeds (Control) Order, the following chart
has been prepared and placed before the Court :-
Impugned Act Central Legislation Comments Sec.
3 Cotton Seed Controller Clause 2 of Seed Control Order Just definition of
controller is given under Seed Control Order 83. No role and function are
defined. No exhaustive provisions are given. Whereas State Act has well
defined powers under Sections 4 and 6.
Sec.
4 Power of Controller Section 3 of Essential Commodities Act - Clause 10 of
Seeds Control Order.
-do- 
Sec.
6 Function of Controller Clause of 3 of Seeds Control Order
-do- 
Sec.
7 Seed Testing Laboratory Seed Act Sec. 4 Environment Protection Act, Sec. 12
Seed Act 1966 is not applicable to BT Cotton Seeds.
No provisions of Laboratory under Seed Control Order, 1983.
Environment Protection Act cannot regulate BT cotton varieties, as Act is
meant for the protection for the improvement of the environment and prevention
and hazardous materials to human beings. BT cotton is proved as non-hazardous
to human beings by various authorities.
Sec.
8 Compensation to the farmers Clauses 13 to 15 of Seeds Control Order Seed
Control Order Clauses 13 to 15 give the penalty provision. No provision for
compensation.
Sec.10, Appointment of Seed Analyst Clause 13(c) Duties of Inspector No
provision for appointment of Seeds Analyst.
Sec.
12, Price fixation Essential Commodities Act, Sec. 3(2)(e) No order has been
issued under Essential Commodities Act for the price fixation. The field is
open.
12\. The learned Government Pleader would contend that while enacting the Act,
the legislature of the State has taken into consideration the interest of the
farmers of the State, who are growing 'cotton'. The State of Gujarat is the
largest producer of 'cotton' and, therefore, the farmers in the State of
Gujarat require huge quantity of cotton seeds. The object of enacting the Act
is see that the farmers are not exploited by the traders, who are dealing in
cotton seeds including transgenic cotton seeds, and that there is no
unjustified burden towards seed costs, which is essential and vital input in
the process of agriculture. The rationale behind the Act is that the Companies
do not take undue advantage of their monopoly in respect of scarce type of
cotton seeds. The Act is also enacted to provide adequate compensation to the
farmers in the event of supply of inferior quality of cotton seeds. Therefore,
the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 is a benevolent legislation introduced in
the interest of the farmers of the particular State at large.
13\. The Central Government has practically supported the case of the
petitioners. In its affidavit, it has taken a plea that the Gujarat Cotton
Seeds Act, 2008 is invalid as being legislatively not competent on the
following grounds :-
(i) Since 'cotton seed' has been re-introduced in the EC Act, the power and
competence for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be
bought or sold is exclusively in the domain of issuance of an order by the
Central Government.
(ii) The Government of India has constantly taken the view that administered
control should not be introduced in the fixation of sale price of seeds,
including cotton seeds.
(iii) Bt cotton seed sector is presently competitive and provides a wide
choice to the farmer community since 619 Bt cotton hybrids are being produced
by as many as 40 Companies/agencies.
(iv) On and from 23.12.2009, the provisions of the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 are
required to be considered in the light of the provisions contained in Article
254 of the Constitution of India.
14\. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties, perused the record,
relevant provisions of law and the decisions rendered by the Supreme Court and
other High Courts.
15\. Under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, the Central
Government is empowered to control production, supply, distribution, etc. of
essential commodities and by order providing for regulating or prohibiting the
production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
Under Clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 3, by an order, the Central
Government can control the price at which such essential commodity may be
bought or sold, as evident from Section 3, relevant portion of which is quoted
hereinbelow :-
"3. Powers to control production, supply, distribution, etc., of essential
commodities, - (1) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is
necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any
essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and
availability at fair prices, or for securing any essential commodity for the
defence of India or the efficient conduct of military operations, it may, by
order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and
distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1), an order made thereunder may provide -
(a) for regulating by licenses, permits or otherwise the production or
manufacture of any essential commodity;
(b) for bringing under cultivation any waste or arable land, whether
appurtenant to a building or not, for the growing thereon of food-cops
generally or of specified food-crops, and for otherwise maintaining on
increasing the cultivation of food-crops generally, or of specified food-
crops;
(c) for controlling the price at which essential commodity may be bought or
sold;
(d) for regulating by licenses, permits or otherwise the storage,
distribution, disposal, acquisition, use or consumption of, any essential
commodity;
... ... .... ... ... ... ... ..."
16\. The Central Government issued the Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 under
Section 3 of the EC Act. The Rules for manufacture, use, import, export and
storage of Hazardous Micro Organisms/Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells
were framed by the Central Government under the provisions of the Environment
Protection Act, 1986. The Parliament in the meantime passed the Seeds Act,
1966 in exercise of its power conferred by Entry 33 List III of the
Constitution governing different kinds of seeds including 'cotton seed'.
Therefore, it will be evident that 'cotton seed' was completely within the
control of the Central Government and, therefore, the State Government had not
promulgated any Rule or Regulation fixing the sale price of 'cotton seed' till
December, 2006.
17\. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2006 was passed by the
Parliament in December, 2006 which came into effect from 12.2.2007. This time
'cotton seed' was taken out of the items listed in the Schedule of 'Essential
Commodity'. Only thereafter, the State of Gujarat issued 'The Gujarat Cotton
Seed (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price)
Ordinance, 2008" which came into effect from 10.6.2008 followed by the
impugned notification dated 11.6.2008 issued under Section 12 of the Gujarat
Cotton Seed Ordinance, 2008 fixing maximum retail price of Bt cotton seeds.
18\. From the aforesaid facts, it will be evident that as the 'cotton seed'
was holding the field under the Central Government pursuant to the Seeds
(Control) Order, 1983 issued under Section 3 of the EC Act, the Central
Government lifted control over 'cotton seeds' since 12.2.2007 when the
Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2006 was enacted and since then 'cotton
seed' did not fall within the meaning of 'essential commodity' as defined
under the Seeds (Control) Order, 1983\. Since 12.2.2007, the Central
Government has felt that 'cotton seed' was not governed by the Central Act
(the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 - Seeds (Control) Order, 1983), which was
well within the jurisdiction of the State to enact Ordinance, 2008, viz. 'The
Gujarat Cotton Seed (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of
Sale Price) Ordinance, 2008". For the said reason, when the validity of the
Ordinance, 2008 and the impugned notification dated 11.6.2008 issued by the
State Government under Section 12 of the said Ordinance, fixing maximum retail
price of Bt cotton seed was challenged by the parties in writ petition -
Special Civil Application No. 8528 of 2008 followed by 'The Gujarat Cotton
Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price)
Act, , 2008", a Division Bench of this Court vide its judgment dated 9.7.2009
dismissed the aforesaid writ petition and upheld the Act and the notification
dated 11.6.2008 issued thereunder. In the background of earlier enactment, the
judgment having rendered, we are not discussing in detail the findings of the
Division Bench in the case of All India Crop Biotech Association of India vs.
State of Gujarat - Special Civil Application No. 8528 of 2008.
19\. The situation changed after issuance of the notification dated 22.12.2009
issued by the Central Government under Section 2A of the EC Act, whereby the
'cotton seed' has been brought back in the list of 'Essential Commodity' under
the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Thus, since 22.12.2009, 'cotton seed' is
to be treated as 'essential commodity' for the purpose of the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 and the Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 and the Seeds Act,
1966 will be attracted. Therefore, it is to be noticed whether 'The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008" is "void to the extent of repugnancy" by virtue of Article
254 of the Constitution of India ?
20\. The effect of inconsistency between the laws made by the Parliament and
the laws made by the legislatures of the States has been laid down under
Article 254 of the Constitution of India and reads as follows :
"254.
Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the Legislature
of States, - (1) If any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State
is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament is
competent to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one
of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the
provisions of clause (2), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or
after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be,
the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the
State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.
(2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the
matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to
the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with
respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State
shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has
received his assent, prevail in that State :
Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at
any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to,
amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the
State."
21\. The operation of Article 254 is not complex. The real problem arises is
the problem of determining whether a particular State law is repugnant to a
Central Act. The Supreme Court on a number of judicial decisions has laid down
the principles as to when the repugnancy arises.
22\. In Kaiser-I-Hind vs. National Textile Corporation, reported in (2002) 8
SCC 182, the Supreme Court examined contours of Article 254 and observed as
follows :-
"11. It is apparent that language of clause (1) of Article 254 gives supremacy
to the law made by Parliament, which Parliament is competent to enact. It
inter alia provides [subject to the provisions of clause (2)] that -
(a) if any provision of law made by the legislature of a State is repugnant to
any provision of a law made by Parliament, which Parliament is competent to
enact, then the law made by Parliament whether passed before or after the law
made by the legislature of such State shall prevail and the law made by the
legislature of the State shall, to the extent of repugnancy, be void; or
(b) if any provision of a law made by the legislature of a State is repugnant
to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters
enumerated in the Concurrent List, then the existing law shall prevail and the
law made by the legislature of the State shall, to the extent of repugnancy,
be void.
12\. For the purpose of the present case, clause (2) requires interpretation,
which on the analysis provides that where a law :
(a) made by the legislature of a State;
(b) with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List;
(c) contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier then, the
law so made by the legislature of the State shall -
(1) if it has been "reserved for consideration of the President"; and (2) has
received "his assent";
would prevail in that State.
13\. Hence, it can be stated that for the State law to prevail, the following
requirements must be satisfied :
(1) law made by the legislature of a State should be with respect to one of
the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List;
(2) it contains any provision repugnant to the provision of an earlier law
made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter;
(3) the law so made by the legislature of the State has been reserved for the
consideration of the President; and (4) it has received "his assent"."
23\. In Pt.
Rishikesh vs. Salma Begum, reported in (1995) 4 SCC 718, the Supreme Court
observed that Clause (2) of Article 254 is an exception to Clause (1). Where
the Union enacts a law subsequent to the State enactment, the State enactment
is void to the extent of repugnancy and the only course for the State is to
re-introduce a new bill, reserve it for consideration of the President, and
only on receiving his assent, the State law can prevail in that State. The
Supreme Court observed :-
"15. Clause (2) of Article 254 is an exception to Clause (1). If law made by
the State Legislature is reserved for consideration and received assent of the
President though the State law is inconsistent with the Central Act, the law
made by the Legislature of the State prevails over the Central Law and
operates in that State as valid law. If the Parliament amends the law, after
the amendment made by the State Legislature has received the assent of the
President, the earlier amendment made by the State legislature, if found
inconsistent with the Central amended Law, both Central law and the State Law
cannot co-exist without colliding with each other. Repugnancy thereby arises
and to the extent of the repugnancy the State Law becomes void under Article
254(1) unless the State Legislature again makes law reserved for the
consideration of the President and received the assent of the President. Full
Bench of the High Court held that since U.P. Act 57/76 received the assent of
the President on December 30, 1976, while the Central Act was assented on
September 9, 1976, the U.P. Act made by the State Legislature, later in point
of time it is a valid law."
24\. The question of repugnancy will come when the law made by the Parliament
and the law made by the State legislature occupy the same filed. If they do
not occupy the same field, the question of repugnancy under Article 254 does
not arise.
The question of repugnancy between two statutes can be ascertained on the
basis of certain principles :-
(i) There is direct conflict between the law made by the Parliament and the
law made by the State legislature;
(ii) Whether the law laid down by the Parliament is an exhaustive code in
respect of the subject matter replacing the Act enacted by the State
legislature; and
(iii) Whether the law made by the Parliament and the law made by the State
legislature occupy the same field.
25\. In the case of State of Orissa vs. MA Tulloch & Co., reported in AIR 1964
SC 1284. the Supreme Court observed that the test of two legislations
containing contradictory provisions is not, however, the only criterion of
repugnancy, for if a competent legislature with superior efficacy expressly or
impliedly evinces by its legislation an intention to cover the whole field,
the enactments of the other legislature whether passed before or after would
be overborne on the ground of repugnance. The relevant observation of the
Supreme Court is as follows :-
"(15) But even if the matter was res integra, the argument cannot be accepted.
Repugnancy arises when two enactments both within the competence of the two
Legislatures collide and when the Constitution expressly or by necessary
implication provides that the enactment of one Legislature has superiority
over the other then to the extent of the repugnancy the one supersedes the
other. But two enactments may be repugnant to each other even though obedience
to each of them is possible without disobeying the other. The test of two
legislations containing contradictory provisions is not, however, the only
criterion of repugnancy, for, if a competent legislature with a superior
efficacy expressly or impliedly evinces by its legislation an intention to
cover the whole field, the enactments of the other legislature whether passed
before or after would be overborne on the ground of repugnance. Where such is
the position, the inconsistency is demonstrated not by a detailed comparison
of provisions of the two statutes but by the mere existence of the two pieces
of legislation. In the present case, having regard to the terms of S.18(1) it
appears clear to us that the intention of Parliament was to cover the entire
field and thus to leave no scope for the argument that until rules were
framed,t here was no inconsistency and no suppression, of the State Act."
26\. The test of two legislations containing contradictory provisions cannot
be said to be the only criteria of repugnance. In certain cases, repugnancy
may arise between two enactments even though obedience to each of them is
possible without disobeying the other if a competent legislature with superior
efficacy expressly or impliedly evinces by its legislation an intention to
cover the whole filed, as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Thirumurga
vs. State of Tamil Nadu, reported in (1996)3 SCC 15 as quoted hereunder :-
"26. It cannot, therefore, be said that the test of two legislations
containing contradictory provision is the only criterion of repugnance.
Repugnancy may arise between two enactments even though obedience to each of
them is possible without disobeying the other it a competent legislature with
a superior efficacy expressly or impliedly evinces by its legislation an
intention to cover the whole field. The contention of Shri Sanghi that there
is no repugnancy between the proviso to Section 5(5) of the Medical University
Act and Section 10-A of the Indian Medical Council Act because both can be
complied with, cannot, therefore, be accepted. What has to be seen is whether
in enacting Section 10-A of the Indian Medical Council Act, Parliament has
evinced an intention to cover the whole field relating to establishment of new
medical colleges in the country."
27\. In the case of State of Jammu & Kashmir vs. MS Farooqi, reported in
(1972) 1 SCC 872, the Supreme Court held that inconsistency does not lie in
the mere co-extensive of two laws which are susceptible of simultaneous
obedience. it depends upon the intention of the paramount legislature to
express by its enactment, completely, exhaustively, or exclusively, what shall
be the law governing the particular conduct or matter to which its attention
is directed. When a Federal statute discloses such an intention, it is
inconsistent with it for the law of a State to govern the same conduct or
matter.
"26. The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, in O'Sullivan vs. Noarlungs
Meat Ltd., 1957 AC 1, 28., approved of the following lines from the judgment
of Dixon, J., in ex parte Mclean :
"The inconsistency does not lie in the mere co-existence of two laws which are
susceptible of simultaneous obedience. It depends upon the intention of the
paramount Legislature to express by its enactment, completely, exhaustively,
or exclusively, what shall be the law governing the particular conduct or
matter to which its attention is directed. When a Federal statute discloses
such an intention, it is inconsistent with it for the law of a State to govern
the same conduct or matter."
28\. The learned Government Pleader appearing on behalf of the State referring
to the earlier decision of this Court in the case of All India Crop Biotech
Association of India vs. State of Gujarat dated 9.7.2009 in Special Civil
Application No. 8528 of 2008, contended that the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act,
2008 has been upheld and thereby cited the precedents for taking into
consideration the same to decide the present issue.
Precedents have to be interpreted in the light of the facts and context of the
decisions in which they are made, as held by the Supreme Court in the case of
Union of India vs. Bahadur Singh, reported in (2006) 1 SCC 368 wherein the
Court held :-
"9. The following words of Lord Denning in the matter of applying precedents
have become locus classicus :
"Each case depends on its own facts and a close similarity between one case
and another is not enough because even a single significant detail may alter
the entire aspect, in deciding such cases, one should avoid the temptation to
decide cases (as said by Cardozo) by matching the colour of one case against
the colour of another. To decide, therefore, on which side of the line a case
falls, the broad resemblance to another case is not at all decisive."
"Precedent should be followed only so far as it marks the path of justice, but
you must cut the dead wood and trim off the side branches else you will find
yourself lost in thickets and branches. My plea is to keep the path to justice
clear of obstructions which could complete impede it."
29\. In the case of All India Crop Biotech Association of India vs. State of
Gujarat - Special Civil Application No. 8528 of 2008, the Division Bench held
that :
(i) the Gujarat Legislature was competent to enact the Gujarat Act, 2008
because the Union took 'cotton seed' out of the purview of the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955;
(ii) such legislation would become invalid if the Union Government and/or
Legislature brings back cotton seed under the aegis of the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955.
30\. In the present case, we have noticed that the Union Government earlier
took out 'cotton seed' from the purview of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955
and after the judgment rendered in the case of All India Crop Biotech
Association of India vs. State of Gujarat, the Union Government again brought
back 'cotton seed' under the aegis of the EC Act, 1955, by notification dated
22.12.2009. Therefore, the question arises whether the Gujarat Cotton Seeds
Act, 2008 is now "void to the extent of repugnancy" when the 'cotton seed' has
been brought back in the Schedule to the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 by
notification dated 22.12.2009.
31\. In the case of Virender Singh Hooda vs. State of Haryana, reported in
(2004) 12 SCC 588, the Supreme Court held that where the basis of a law is
altered by legislation, conditional legislation or notification, the
legislation declared valid earlier will be rendered invalid to the extent of
the change of basis.
32\. Where some parts of a statute are alleged to be valid and some parts
invalid, what principle is to be applied was noticed and determined by the
Supreme Court in RMD Chamarbaugwalla vs. Union of India, reported in AIR 1957
SCR 930 : AIR 1957 SC 628, wherein the Court held as follows :-
"1. In determining whether the valid parts of a statute are separable from the
invalid parts thereof, it is the intention of the legislature that is the
determining factor. The test to be applied is whether the legislature would
have enacted the valid part if it had known that the rest of the statute was
invalid. Vide Corpus Juris Secundum, vol. 82, p. 156 : Sutherland on Statutory
Construction, vol. 2 pp. 176 - 117.
2\. If the valid and invalid provisions are inextricably mixed up that they
cannot be separated from one another, then the invalidity of a portion must
result in the invalidity of the Act in its entirety. On the other hand, if
they are so distinct and separate that after striking out what is invalid,
what remains is in itself a complete code independent of the rest, then it
will be upheld notwithstanding that the rest has become unenforceable. Vide
Cooley's Constitutional Limitation, vol. at pp. 360 - 361 : Crawford on
Statutory Construction, pp. 217 - 218.
3\. Even when the provisions which are valid are distinct and separate from
those which are invalid, if they all form part of a single scheme which is
intended to be operating as a whole, then also the invalidity of a part will
result in the failure of the whole. Vide Crawford on Statutory Construction,
pp. 218 - 219.
4\. Likewise, when the valid and invalid parts of a statute are independent
and do not form part of a scheme but what is left after omitting the invalid
portion is so thin and truncated as to be in substance different from what it
was when it emerged out of the legislature, then also it will be rejected in
its entirety.
5\. The separability of the valid and invalid provisions of a statute does not
depend on whether the law as enacted in the same section or different section
: (Vide Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, vol. 1, pp 261-362); it is not
the form, but the substance of the matter that is material, and that has to be
ascertained on an examination of the Act as a whole and of the setting of the
relevant provision therein.
6\. If after the invalid portion is expunged from the statute what remains
cannot be enforced without making alterations and modifications therein, then
the whole of it must be struck down as void, as otherwise it will amount to
judicial legislation. Vide Sutherland on Statutory Construction, vol. 2, p.
194
7\. In determining the legislative intent on the question of separability, it
will be legitimate to take into account the history of the legislation, its
objection, the title and the preamble to it. Vide Sutherland on Statutory
Construction, vol. 2, pp. 177- 178."
33\. In the case of State of U.P. vs. Daulat Ram Gupta, reported in (2002) 4
SCC 98, the Supreme Court held that the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 read
with the Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 is a complete code in itself.
"11. it is not disputed that the method of grant of license as well as the
conditions of license and its renewal are provided in the Statutory Order
framed under the Essential Commodities Act. Clause 2(d) of the Statutory Order
provides that "dealer" means a person engaged in the business of purchase,
sale or storage for sale of high speed diesel oil or light diesel oil or both
but does not include an oil company. Clause 2(h) of the Statutory Order
provides that the "licensee" means a dealer holder a license granted under the
provisions of this Order. Clause 4 of the Statutory Order further provides
that for grant or renewal of a license an application is Form 'B' attached to
the Order, shall be given to the Licensing Authority. Every license granted or
renewed under this Order shall be in Form 'C' and shall be subject to the
conditions specified therein. Clause 8 of the Statutory Order further provides
that the Licensing Authority may, for reasons to be recovered in writing,
suspend or cancel any license it it is satisfied that the licensee has
contravened any provisions of this Order or the conditions of the license or
any direction issued thereunder. It is not disputed that the respondent was
granted license under the Statutory Order. Form 'B' attached to the Statutory
Order does not show that the license to vend diesel oil can be refused if the
applicant has place of business within the redius of 5 km of a retail outlet.
Similarly, neither clause 4 nor Form 'C' attached to the Statutory Order
provides that no license shall be renewed if the place of business of a
licensee falls within a radium of 5 km of a government retail outlet.
12\. It is, therefore, manifest from the provisions of the Statutory Order
that insofar as conditions of grant of license for sale of diesel oil and its
renewal are concerned, the Statutory Order is a complete code in itself and
there is no provision in the Statutory Order under which a Licensing Authority
could refuse to renew a license if the licensee's place of business falls
within a radium of 5 km of a government-run retail outlet."
34\. In the present case, it is not in dispute that while the Central
enactments
\- Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 - were
holding the field of 'cotton seed', the State legislature did not choose to
enact any State law in respect of 'cotton seed'. The Gujarat Cotton Seed Act,
2008 was enacted only when the Central enactment withdrew itself from the
field of 'cotton seed".
35\. The Union of India has taken a specific plea that the Gujarat Cotton
Seeds Act, 2008 is invalid as being legislatively incompetent, as can be seen
from the following extracts :-
(i) Since 'cotton seed' has been re-introduced in the Essential Commodities
Act, 1955, the power and competence for controlling the price at which any
essential commodity may be bought or sold is exclusively in the domain of
issuance of an order by the Central Government (para 4.7 of the reply
affidavit).
(ii) The Government of India has constantly taken the view that administered
control should not be introduced in the fixation of sale price of seeds
including 'cotton seed' (para 5.8(i) of the reply affidavit).
(iii) Bt cotton seed sector is presently competitive and provides a wide
choice to the farmer community since 619 Bt cotton hybrids are being produced
by as many as 40 Companies/agencies (para 5.8(ii) of the reply affidavit.
(iv) On and from 22.12.2009, the provisions of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act,
2008 is required to be considered in the light of the provisions contained in
Article 254 of the Constitution of India.
36\. The State Government in its affidavit have also conceded the following
facts :-
(a) The order dated 22.12.2009 results in some of the provisions of the
Gujarat Act cannot now operate in the field where identical provisions are
found in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the Seeds (Control) Order,
1983 inviting a direct and real repugnancy and not probable repugnancy,
between the same (para 11 of the reply affidavit).
(b) that the purpose of the said notification dated 22.12.2009 was "with a
view to coming out of the aforesaid judgment" of this Court (para 11 of the
reply affidavit).
(c) the State Government under Section 21 of the Gujarat Act has delineated
those provisions of the State Act which survive and are not repugnant (it is
respectfully submitted that such a course of action is not open to the State
Government under Section 21 read with Section 23 of the Gujarat Act) [para 12
of the reply affidavit].
(d) the preamble of the Ordinance, 2008 itself indicates that the latitude
claimed by the State Government arose because 'cotton seed' was deleted from
Essential Commodity Act (para 14).
37\. The learned Government Pleader took a plea to suggest that the following
provisions of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 still hold the field, as the
Central enactments do not hold the field :-
(i) Sections 3, 4 and 6 \- which deals with appointment, power and function of
the Controller;
(ii) Section 7
\- which deals with State's seed testing labs;
(iii) Section 8
\- which deals with compensation to farmers;
(iv) Sections 10 and 11 \- which deal with seed analyst; and
(v) Section 12
\- which deals with pricing.
38\. The question arises whether the Central enactment i.e. the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 occupies the field, as occupied by Sections 3, 4, 6, 7,
10, 11 and 12 of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008. The Union of India has
indicated that the repugnancy in the Gujarat legislature earlier arose due to
removal of 'cotton seed' from the purview of the EC Act, as evident from their
letter dated 30.1.2009.
39\. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners rightly
compared the provisions vis-a-vis Sections 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12 of the
Gujarat Cottons Seeds Act, 2008 (State legislation) and the corresponding
provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 read with Seeds (Control)
Order, 1983 (Central enactment) The following comparison were brought to the
notice of the Court to suggest that the Central legislation occupy all the
aforesaid field, which according to State, do not occupy : :-
State enactment (Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution,
Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008) Central Legislation (Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 - Seeds (Control) Order, 1983 Section 3 provides for
appointment of an officer as the Cotton Seeds Controller for the State.
Clause 2 of the Seeds Control Order provides for a person appointed as
Controller of Seeds by the Central Government and includes any person
empowered by the Central Government to exercise all or any functions of the
Controller under the Order.
Section 4 empowers the Controller to order any person holding, or engaged in
the manufacture and sale of, cotton seed, to sell the whole or part of the
stock at prices fixed by the State Government and to such persons as may be
specified, and to comply with such other directions as may be issued.
Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act empowers the Central Government to
pas orders in relation to any essential commodity requiring any person holding
in stock, or engaged in the production, or in the business of buying or
selling, of any essential commodity, to sell the whole or a specified part of
the quantity held in stock or produced or received by him to the Central
Government or a State Government or to an officer or agent of such Government
or to a Corporation owned or controlled by such Government or to such person
or class of arsons and in such circumstances as may be specified in the order.
Clause 10 of the Seeds Control Order empowers the Controller to order/direct
any producer or dealer to sell or distribute any seed in such manner as may be
specified therein.
Section 6 specifies the function of the Controller, namely:
(i) arrange for registration of cotton seed firms;
(ii) arrange for payment of compensation;
(iii) advise the State Government on matters relating to regulation of sale of
cotton seed;
(iv) such other matters that may be assigned to him by the State Government.
Clause 3 of the Seeds Control Order requires the dealers in seeds to obtain
license for sale, import, export of seeds.
Section 7 provides for establishment of Seeds Testing Laboratories and a
referral seeds testing laboratory.
Section 4 of the Seeds Act provides for establishment of Central and State
Seed Laboratories. Under Clause 13 of the Seeds Control Order the samples are
to be sent to the laboratories established under the Seeds Act.
Section 12 of the Environment Protection Act also establishes Environment
Laboratories, whose function it is, inter alia, to analyse samples of Bt
cotton seeds (Rule 9 of the 1989 Rules).
Section 8 provides for payment of compensation to farmers in cases where the
performance of the seeds fails to meet the standards disclosed.
Clauses 13-15 of the Seeds Control Order provide for inspection and analysis
of cotton seeds. Any violation invites cancellation of licences and further
penalties under the Order and the EC Act. The performance of seeds is also
regulated under the Seeds Act as it provides for quality parameters and action
can be taken in case of violation of the same. (See Section 6 of the Seeds Act
and Rule 6 of the Seeds Rules) Rule 23-A of the Seeds Rules also can be used
in case of lack of performance.
Section 10 provides for appointment of Seed Analysts.
Section 11 provides that the analyst shall within 30 days of receipt of the
samples from the seed inspector, analyse and furnish a report.
Clause 13(c) of the Seeds Control Order empowers the inspectors to draw
samples of seeds meant for sale, export and seeds imported, and send the same
in accordance with the procedure laid down in Schedule I, to a laboratory
notified under the Seeds Act. Seed Analysts, appointed under Section 12 of the
Seeds Act, perform the analysis, and as per Clause 14 of the Seeds Control
Order, sends the analysis report to the concerned Inspector within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the sample in the laboratory.
Section 12 enables the State Government with the power to fix the maximum sale
price of all types of cotton seeds after taking into consideration, the cost
of production, including trait value and other related factors obtained from
various agencies concerned from time to time.
Under Section 3(2)(c) of the Essential Commodities Act, the Central Government
has the power to fix prices under the EC Act. The established position of the
Central Government is that no administered price control mechanism should be
levied on cotton seeds. The Central Government retains the power under the EC
Act and the role of the State Government is that of a consultee. The consultee
cannot then contend that wide powers have been left open to the State
Government to legislate in this field.
Patents Act 1970: Where a gene is patented (which is the case with BG-II)
'patents' fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union of India (Entry
49 List 1) and the Patents Act which allows royalty payments to the patentee.
40\. The learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that preamble of the
Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of
Sale Price) Act, 2008 is allegedly misleading. For example, in the State Act,
2008, in the preamble 1st recital, there is mentioned that since certain
varieties of cotton seeds are not notified under Section 5 of the Seeds Act,
and hence not regulated under Section 7 of that Act, that was one of the
grounds to enact the 2008 Act. According to him, Section 2(11)(ii) defines
'cotton seed' which includes transgenic and other cotton seeds, which come
under the Seeds Act, 1966. The power under Section 5 applies to all 'seeds of
any kind or variety' which include 'cotton seed'. Further, Clause 8A of the
Seeds (Control) order, 1983 makes the standards laid down under the Seeds Act
mandatory for all seeds whether or not they have been specifically notified
under the Seeds Act. Thus, all Bt cotton seeds are also required to conform to
the standards laid down by the Central Government under the Seeds Act, 1966.
He further contended that 2nd and 3rd recitals of the preamble of the Gujarat
Cotton Seeds Act, 2008, a misleading statement has been made that since
'cotton seed' is not an 'essential commodity' under the EC Act, and since the
Seeds (Control) Order is not applicable from 12.2.2007. According to him, it
is misleading and wrong. The Central Government had notified 'cotton seed' as
an 'essential commodity' earlier, which was later on taken away, but re-
notified with effect from 22.12.2009 by inserting 'cotton seed' within the
meaning of 'essential commodity'. Similar position has been made with regard
to the 4th recital to the preamble of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008
wherein it is stated that no provision in the Environment (Protection) Act to
regulate the supply, distribution, sale and fixation of sale price of
genetically modified cotton, though transgenic cotton seeds are covered under
the Rules for Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Micro-
Organisms/Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells, 1989.
41\. We are not going to discuss other misleading object pointed out by the
counsel for the petitioner with regard to the 5th, 6th and 7th recitals of the
preamble of the Act, 2008, as we are not giving any finding with regard to the
preamble of the 2008 Act for determination of the issue whether the Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008 is "void to the extent of repugnancy" since 22.12.2009.
42\. We have noticed that Sections 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12 of the Gujarat
Cotton Seeds Act, 2008 are alleged to be saved as per the stand taken by the
State, but disputed by the Central Government. It will be evident that there
are corresponding Central Government legislations to Sections 3, 4, 6, 7, 10,
11 and 12 of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008, as shown in the comparative
chart and noticed at paragraph No. 39 above.
43\. It is a settled law that Clause (1) of Article 254 gives supremacy to the
law enacted by the Parliament which is competent to enact so in respect of the
same subject matter, If there is a State enactment made by the legislature of
the State, such provisions of law will be repugnant to that extent in view of
Article 254 of the Constitution of India. The Parliament intended to lay down
an exhaustive code in respect of all essential commodities, as defined and
specified in the Schedule to the 'Essential Commodities Act, 1955'. Under
Article 369 of the Constitution, the Parliament having empowered during the
period of five years from the commencement of the Act, to make laws with
respect to trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution
of, certain essential commodities, the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was
enacted. It applies to different categories viz. foodstuffs, cattle fodder,
coal, textile, etc. Under Section 2A of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955,
the Central Government if satisfied in the public interest can notify and
thereby add a commodity to the Schedule of 'Essential Commodity' and can
remove any commodity from the said Schedule in consultation with the State
Government. Under sub-section (2) of Section 3, the Central Government is
empowered to regulate license, permission, production and manufacture of
essential commodity. Under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 3, the
Central Government is empowered for controlling the price at which the
essential commodity may be bought or sold. Under clause (2) of the Seeds
(Control) Order, 1983, a person can be appointed as Controller of Seeds. Under
Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, the Central Government can
pass order in relation to any essential commodity requiring any person to hold
in stock, or engage in the production, or in the business of buying or
selling, of any of the essential commodities. Under Clause (3) of the Seeds
(Control) Order, 1983, the dealer of the seed is required to obtain license
for sale, export and import of seeds. Under Section 4 of the Seeds Act, 1966,
the Central or the State Seed laboratory can be established and under Clause
13 of the Seed (Control) Order, 1983, employees can be sent to the
laboratories established under the Seeds Act, 1966. Section 12 of the
Environment (Protection) Act also deals with the laboratories whose, inter
alia, function is to analyze samples of the different matters including Bt
cotton seed. Clause (c) of Section 13 of the Seeds (Control) Order empowers
the inspectors to draw samples of seeds meant for sale, export, etc. read with
appointment of Seed Analyst under Section 12 of the Seeds Act and Clause 14 of
the Seeds (Control) Order, which is akin to the power vested under Sections 10
and 11 of the Gujarat Cotton Seeds Act, 2008. Section 3(2)(c) of the EC Act,
as already noticed, empowers the Central Government to fix the price under the
EC Act including the price of 'cotton seeds'.
44\. Therefore, it will be evident that the Parliament intended to lay down an
exhaustive code in respect of the seeds including 'cotton seeds' and for that
reasons, the State legislature thought it fit not to enact such enactment till
the Central enactment was holding the filed of 'cotton seed'. From the
aforesaid provisions, we find that law made by the Central Government like the
Essential Commodities Act, 1955, the Seeds Act, 1966, Seeds (Control) Order,
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
[S. J.
MUKHOPADHAYA, CJ.] [K.
M. THAKER, J.] sundar/-
> Top
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
To be referred to the Reporter or not ? Yes 3 Whether their Lordships wish to
see the fair copy of the judgment ? No 4 Whether this case involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution of
India, 1950 or any order made thereunder ? No 5 Whether it is to be circulated
to the civil judge ? No =================================================
NATIONAL SEEDS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA & 3 - Petitioner(s) Versus STATE OF
GUJARAT THROUGH SECRETARY & 5 - Respondent(s)
================================================= Appearance :
DR RAJEEV DHAVAN, Sr. Advocate with MR SN SHELAT, Sr. Advocate with Ms HS
CHANDOKE, MR PRASHANT PAKHIDDEY, MR ABDULLYAH HUSSAIN and MR DILIP B RANA for
Petitioner(s) : 1 - 4.
MR PK JANI, GOVERNMENT PLEADER for Respondent(s) : 1 - 3.
NOTICE SERVED BY DS for Respondent(s) : 4 - 6.
MR PS CHAMPANERI for Respondent(s) :
6, ================================================= CORAM :
HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE
K.M.THAKER Date : 22/04/2011 CAV JUDGMENT (Per : HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA) This writ petition has been preferred by National Seeds
Association of India and others challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
To be referred to the Reporter or not ? Yes 3 Whether their Lordships wish to
see the fair copy of the judgment ? No 4 Whether this case involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution of
India, 1950 or any order made thereunder ? No 5 Whether it is to be circulated
to the civil judge ? No =================================================
NATIONAL SEEDS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA & 3 - Petitioner(s) Versus STATE OF
GUJARAT THROUGH SECRETARY & 5 - Respondent(s)
================================================= Appearance :
DR RAJEEV DHAVAN, Sr. Advocate with MR SN SHELAT, Sr. Advocate with Ms HS
CHANDOKE, MR PRASHANT PAKHIDDEY, MR ABDULLYAH HUSSAIN and MR DILIP B RANA for
Petitioner(s) : 1 - 4.
MR PK JANI, GOVERNMENT PLEADER for Respondent(s) : 1 - 3.
NOTICE SERVED BY DS for Respondent(s) : 4 - 6.
MR PS CHAMPANERI for Respondent(s) :
6, ================================================= CORAM :
HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE
K.M.THAKER Date : 22/04/2011 CAV JUDGMENT (Per : HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA) This writ petition has been preferred by National Seeds
Association of India and others challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
To be referred to the Reporter or not ? Yes 3 Whether their Lordships wish to
see the fair copy of the judgment ? No 4 Whether this case involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution of
India, 1950 or any order made thereunder ? No 5 Whether it is to be circulated
to the civil judge ? No =================================================
NATIONAL SEEDS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA & 3 - Petitioner(s) Versus STATE OF
GUJARAT THROUGH SECRETARY & 5 - Respondent(s)
================================================= Appearance :
DR RAJEEV DHAVAN, Sr. Advocate with MR SN SHELAT, Sr. Advocate with Ms HS
CHANDOKE, MR PRASHANT PAKHIDDEY, MR ABDULLYAH HUSSAIN and MR DILIP B RANA for
Petitioner(s) : 1 - 4.
MR PK JANI, GOVERNMENT PLEADER for Respondent(s) : 1 - 3.
NOTICE SERVED BY DS for Respondent(s) : 4 - 6.
MR PS CHAMPANERI for Respondent(s) :
6, ================================================= CORAM :
HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE
K.M.THAKER Date : 22/04/2011 CAV JUDGMENT (Per : HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA) This writ petition has been preferred by National Seeds
Association of India and others challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton
Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price)
Act, 2008 [hereinafter referred to as "the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008"] and the
price-fixation thereunder.
2\. The brief facts of the case are that the Essential Commodities Act was
enacted by the Parliament under Entry 33, List III of Schedule VII of the
Constitution of India to govern trade and commerce in different essential
commodities including "cotton seeds". In the year 1966, the Parliament passed
"Seeds Act, 1966" in exercise of power conferred under Entry 33, List III of
the Schedule VII of the Constitution to regulate the quality of certain seeds,
such as seeds of food crops, cotton seed, etc. to be sold for purposes of
agriculture; including horticulture.
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? Yes 2
To be referred to the Reporter or not ? Yes 3 Whether their Lordships wish to
see the fair copy of the judgment ? No 4 Whether this case involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution of
India, 1950 or any order made thereunder ? No 5 Whether it is to be circulated
to the civil judge ? No =================================================
NATIONAL SEEDS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA & 3 - Petitioner(s) Versus STATE OF
GUJARAT THROUGH SECRETARY & 5 - Respondent(s)
================================================= Appearance :
DR RAJEEV DHAVAN, Sr. Advocate with MR SN SHELAT, Sr. Advocate with Ms HS
CHANDOKE, MR PRASHANT PAKHIDDEY, MR ABDULLYAH HUSSAIN and MR DILIP B RANA for
Petitioner(s) : 1 - 4.
MR PK JANI, GOVERNMENT PLEADER for Respondent(s) : 1 - 3.
NOTICE SERVED BY DS for Respondent(s) : 4 - 6.
MR PS CHAMPANERI for Respondent(s) :
6, ================================================= CORAM :
HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE
K.M.THAKER Date : 22/04/2011 CAV JUDGMENT (Per : HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
MR. S.J. MUKHOPADHAYA) This writ petition has been preferred by National Seeds
Association of India and others challenging the validity of the Gujarat Cotton
Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price)
Act, 2008 [hereinafter referred to as "the Cotton Seeds Act, 2008"] and the
price-fixation thereunder.
2\. The brief facts of the case are that the Essential Commodities Act was
enacted by the Parliament under Entry 33, List III of Schedule VII of the
Constitution of India to govern trade and commerce in different essential
commodities including "cotton seeds". In the year 1966, the Parliament passed
"Seeds Act, 1966" in exercise of power conferred under Entry 33, List III of
the Schedule VII of the Constitution to regulate the quality of certain seeds,
such as seeds of food crops, cotton seed, etc. to be sold for purposes of
agriculture; including horticulture.
1983 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 are holding the field of
'cotton seed' including appointment, the power and function of the Seed
Controller, establishment of Seed Testing Laboratory, Analysts of seeds and
pricing of cotton seed, and thereby the Gujarat Cotton Seeds (Regulation of
Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act, 2008, since
22.12.2009, has come in direct conflict with the provisions of the Central
enactments as referred to above, so far as it relates to 'cotton seeds'.
Thereby the enactment of the State legislatures - The Gujarat Cotton Seeds
(Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale Price) Act,
2008, since 22.12.2009 became void to the extent of repugnancy, as stated
above, in view of Article 254 of the Constitution of India. In view of such
declaration, the notification dated 11.6.2008 issued pursuant to The Gujarat
Cotton Seeds (Regulation of Supply, Distribution, Sale and Fixation of Sale
Price) Act, 2008, and impugned in the present case, cannot be upheld and is
accordingly set aside. The writ petition is allowed, but there shall be no
order as to costs.
