Allahabad High Court
Pyare vs M.Abdul Hafeez on 11 January, 2019
Bench: Jaspreet Singh
    HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH
    A.F.R.
    RESERVED
    Case :- SECOND APPEAL No. - 408 of 1993
    Appellant :- Pyare
    Respondent :- M.Abdul Hafeez
    Counsel for Appellant :- M.C.Sharma,B.R. Tripathi,Rajeev Kumar Tripathi
    Counsel for Respondent :- S.Mirza, M.A.Siddiqui
                                              *****
    Hon'ble Jaspreet Singh,J.
By means of the present second appeal, the appellant, who was the defendant in
the trial court, assails the judgment passed by the first appellate Court
dated 16.09.1993 passed by the Court of Additional Civil Judge, Bahraich
whereby it reversed the judgment passed by the trial court dated 05.02.1991
passed by the first Additional Munsif, Bahraich, whereby the suit of the
plaintiff-respondent had been dismissed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
admitted by this Court by means of the order dated 01.12.1993. However, at the
time of admission, the substantial questions of law were not formulated.
With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the Court formulated
the following substantial questions of law, which are reproduced hereinafter.
(i) Whether the judgment and decree passed in R.S. No.127/1970 will operate as
res judicata in the present suit filed by plaintiff-respondent and its effect
?
(ii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff was maintainable and any cause action
had accrued on 01.09.1984 ?
(iii) Whether S.D.O. has power to declare the ownership under Section 123 of
the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 ? and
(iv) Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Section 123(2) of the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 and if so, its effect on
the suit ?
In order to answer the aforesaid questions, certain facts necessary for
effectual adjudication of the controversy, are being noticed hereinafter.
The plaintiff-respondent Mohd. Abdul Hafeez instituted a suit for possession
against Shri Pyare on the pleadings that he was the owner of the plot bearing
No.216(N) measuring 0.37 decimal, situate in Moza Bhoga Jot, Tehsil
Kaiserganj, District Bahraich. He had purchased the aforesaid plot by means of
a registered sale-deed dated 03.08.1973 from Shri Daya Shankar Bajpai. It was
also pleaded that the defendant Shri Pyare had instituted a suit bearing R.S.
No.127 of 1970 for injunction against four defendants including Shri Daya
Shankar Bajpai and the said suit was dismissed on 12.05.1973. It was held that
Pyare could not establish his possession or right over the property in
question. His appeal bearing No.148 of 1973 was also dismissed. However, some
time in the year 1982, the defendant Pyare forcibly occupied the property in
question and started raising construction. As he refused to remove his
construction, consequently a suit for possession was filed on 01.09.1984.
The defendant Pyare while filing his written statement in Paragraph-13
categorically pleaded that the property in question did not belong to Raja
Vijay Pratap Singh, Daya Shankar Bajpai or the plaintiff Mohd. Abdul Hafeez
nor they were in possession rather he pleaded that the property in question
has been in his possession since long and even though his earlier suit bearing
R.S. No.127/1970 was dismissed yet that would have no ill effect since he
continued to remain in possession of the property in question and it has been
falsely pleaded that Pyare came into possession only in the year 1982. The
defendant Pyare specifically in Paragraph-21 claimed the benefit of the
provisions of Section 123(2) of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms
Act, 1950 (henceforth "the Act of 1950", in short) and thus he pleaded that in
view of the statutory recognition of his rights, the property in question
stood vested with him and the plaintiff Abdul Hafeez had no right to seek
possession.
The plaintiff filed the replication and refuted the plea of defence raised by
the defendant. It replied that since the property in question has been in the
nature of 'abadi', thus, the provisions of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950
were not applicable. It was also pleaded in the replication that the S.D.O.,
of the concerned area did not have the right to declare the property in
question as 'abadi' and to confer any benefit of Section 123 of the Act of
1950 on the defendant.
The parties led their respective evidence and the trial court framed eleven
issues. For the purposes of the aforesaid second appeal, the Issues No.2, 3,
4, 5, 9, 10 and 11 as framed by the trial court are relevant and upon
consideration of the same, the trial court held that since there was a denial
of title and possession by the defendant, thus, in order to establish the
same, it was necessary for the plaintiff to have examined his predecessor Shri
Daya Shankar Bajpai. In absence of his being examined as a witness, his right
and title as well as possession could not be established. Since, the evidence
led by the defendant was much more superior wherein his possession relating to
the property in question was established by referring to certain documents
which were in context of land acquisition proceedings, consolidation
proceedings, land ceiling proceedings and orders passed by the Deputy
Commissioner under the U.P. Roadside Land Control Act, thus, the trial court
found that these documents relating to the year 1963 and 1969 much prior to
the date of the execution of the sale-deed of the plaintiff, established the
possession of the defendant. Accordingly, the Issue No.2 was decided against
the plaintiff by holding that he did not acquire any right on the basis of the
sale-deed executed by Daya Shankar Bajpai. The Issues No.3 and 4 were also
decided against the plaintiff. The trial court also considered the plea of the
parties regarding the applicability of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950 and
the S.D.O. passed an order in term whereof the benefit of Section 123(2) of
the Act of 1950 was given to the defendant. It further recorded a finding that
it was within the jurisdiction of the S.D.O. to have passed the order dated
27.07.1988 and since the right of the defendant was covered within the ambit
of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950, therefore, the plaintiff was not
entitled to seek possession from the disputed land as the same vested with the
defendant and with the aforesaid findings, the suit of the plaintiff was
dismissed by means of the judgment dated 05.02.1991.
Being aggrieved against the judgment passed by the trial court, the plaintiff
preferred a regular civil appeal under Section 96 CPC. The first appellate
Court after hearing the parties confined its attention on the issues No.10, 11
and 12 which related to the applicability of Section 123 of the Act of 1950
and as to whether the plaintiff was the owner in terms of the sale-deed dated
03.08.1973. The first appellate Court allowed the appeal and reversed the
judgment passed by the trial court primarily holding that the findings
recorded in the earlier suit bearing R.S. No.127/1970, which was instituted by
the defendant Shri Pyare wherein he claimed his ownership and possession in
respect of the property in question and having lost that suit and the findings
recorded therein that he was neither owner nor he was found in possession,
those findings would operate as res judicata in the present suit and this
aspect was not considered by the trial court.
Another factor which prevailed in the mind of the first appellate Court was
the fact that in ceiling proceedings, which were held in the year 1969, the
authority concerned had excluded the land in question from the Ceiling Act by
holding that there was an 'abadi' over the land in question and consequently
the first appellate court came to the conclusion that since it was an 'abadi',
therefore, the provisions of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950 were not
applicable. It also recorded a finding that even in prior proceedings relating
to the land acquisition, the aforesaid land was found to be 'abadi' and that
in the earlier Regular Suit No.127/1970 Pyare had also admitted that he was in
possession over the land in question since last several decades, accordingly,
it held that the land was 'abadi' and it could not be taken into consideration
for grant of benefit of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950. It further held
that the S.D.O., did not have the right to declare the land in question as
'abadi' while the aforesaid right only vested with the civil court. The first
appellate Court also considered that the land in question belonged to the
"Ruhiya Estate", and its descendants Shri Raja Vijay Pratap Singh had sold the
property to Shri Daya Shankar Bajpai, who in turn had sold the property to the
present plaintiff Mohd. Abdul Hafeez, thus, he was the owner of the same.
Accordingly, the appeal was allowed and the judgment of the trial court was
set aside. The defendant was directed to remove his constructions within three
months and hand over its vacant possession to the plaintiff. Being aggrieved
against the judgment of reversal, the defendant has preferred the above second
appeal.
I have heard Shri Rajieu Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel for the appellant and
Shri M.A.Siddiqui assisted by Shri Aftab Ahmad, learned counsel for the
respondents at length.
The primary contention of the learned counsel for the appellant while pressing
on the substantial questions of law was that Section 123 of the Act of 1950
came by amendment in the year 1974. The aforesaid provision provided a right
to those persons, who were found to have a house existing on the land in
question belonging to the tenure holder. Such sites would vest with the
persons, who had constructed the aforesaid house. It was urged that since
admittedly the plaintiff had pleaded categorically that the defendant was in
possession from the year 1982 and had raised constructions, thus, upon the
amendment in the aforesaid Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950, the cut of date
was amended which consequently gave the benefit of the aforesaid provisions to
the defendant, therefore, the trial court was absolutely right in dismissing
the suit inasmuch as once by the operation of law, the site in question had
vested with the defendant, the plaintiff lost his right and even though he
bought the property from the erstwhile 'bhumidhar' yet he could not get any
benefit as in law he was prohibited from seeking the land as the same had
vested with the defendant.
It was also urged by the learned counsel for the appellant that a finding in
the earlier suit would not operate as res judicata since it was merely a suit
for injunction wherein mandatory and permanent injunctions were sought. Once
the findings were returned in the earlier suit that Pyare was not in
possession nor he could establish his title, such findings were only relevant
for the purposes of grant or refusal of injunction, but it could only operate
as res judicata in a subsequent suit where the question of title was to be
considered on the basis of statutory recognition of rights which was not
available at the time when the first suit was filed. He also emphasized that
from the documents available on record, the possession of the defendant was
established even prior to the sale-deed dated 03.08.1973. Accordingly, the
rights of the defendant-appellant stood perfected. He further elaborated that
the Board of Revenue issued a notification was only in clarificatory in nature
which recognized the vesting of rights in terms of Section 123 of the Act of
1950, which was a statutory provision. According to the learned counsel for
the appellant vesting was a direct outcome of Section 123 of the Act of 1950
and the rights so vested in terms of statutory provision was only regulated by
the notification of the Board of Revenue and thus the order passed by the
S.D.O., to declare the ownership of the defendant by declaring it as 'abadi'
as well as the notification issued by the Board of Revenue was only in
consequence and recognition of right which was created and vested in the
defendant by Section 123 of the Act of 1950.
Per contra, Shri M.A. Siddiqui, and Shri Aftab Ahmad, would contend that
Section 123 of the Act of 1950 would have a prospective applicability. The cut
of date as referred by the learned counsel for the appellant was amended from
time to time and the earlier cut of date of 1974 was extended to 1985, whereas
the suit had been instituted only in the year 1984, therefore, the benefit of
extension of the cut of date is not available to the defendant-appellant. It
was further urged that the land in question has been held to be 'abadi' as
even according to the defendant Pyare in the earlier R.S. No.127/1970 he had
stated that he was in possession since the time his forefathers and to
establish the aforesaid fact the copy of the plaint of the earlier suit, the
judgment of the dismissal by the trial court, the judgment of the affirmance
by the first appellate Court was also placed on record. From the perusal of
the same, it was contended that the defendant was already treating the land to
be 'abadi' and in an 'abadi' land, the provisions of Section 123 of the Act of
1950 were not applicable. In order to further buttress their submissions,
learned counsel for the respondent submitted that in the earlier suit R.S.
No.127/1970, it was held that the defendant Shri Pyare was not found in
possession, therefore, it cannot be said that he was the one who was in
possession and raised construction over the property in question and since he
could not establish all the ingredients in respect of Section 123 of the Act
of 1950, he was not entitled to its benefit.
Thus, in effect the contention of the respondent was to the effect that the
provisions of Section of the Act of 1950 is prospective and not retrospective,
since the possession of the defendant could not be proved in the earlier suit
which led to its dismissal, therefore, it cannot be held that the defendant
was in possession. Since, he came in possession of the premises in question
only in the year 1982 as per the plaint case, therefore, the prospectivity of
the relevant provisions will not entitle the defendant to claim the benefit of
Section 123 of the Act of 1950, retrospectively as the extended cut of date in
the provisions came in the year 1985, whereas the suit was instituted in 1984,
and the rights of the parties were crystallized on the date of institution of
the suit, thus, he was not entitled to the benefit of the aforesaid
provisions.
Shri Rajieu Kumar Tripathi in rejoinder submitted that the land in question
always remained a 'bhumidhari' land even assuming if it belonged to erstwhile
"Ruhiya Estate", it was 'bhumidhari' land, which was sold by the descendants
to Daya Shankar Bajpai, who in turn sold the same to the plaintiff Mohd. Abdul
Hafeez. Merely because houses were constructed, it would not render the land
to be converted into 'abadi' as for conversion, there is a process and the
revenue authorities declare the land to be abadi. He further went on to
elaborate that even if at all there is a declaration under Section 143 of the
Act of 1950 in respect of the land in question even then the provisions of
Section 123 of the Act of 1950 would apply.
In absence of any declaration of abadi and the land being recorded in the
khatauni as agricultural it will confer the land with all rigorous and it
shall be governed by Section 123 and other provisions of the U.P. Z.A. & L.R.
Act. Merely because any part of land is used for any other purpose other than
agriculture and even may be for residential use it will not change the nature
of the land from agriculture to abadi.
He also submitted that there is no question of any retrospectivity of the
operation of Section 123 of the Act of 1950. Since, the said provisions came
in the year 1974 and it only the cut of date which has been amended from time
to time. He further submitted that the effect of such amendment will be
construed as on the date of decision rendered by the first Court i.e. the
trial court and the law as prevailing then, would be taken note of. Since, the
judgment of the trial court is dated 05.02.1991 and the cut of date was
extended in the year 1985. Thus, admittedly on the date of adjudication, the
Act provided that the persons described in Section 122 of the Act of 1950, who
had built their houses upto 31st March, 1985 were entitled to be benefit of
Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950.
According to the learned counsel for the appellant, admittedly, the plaintiff
instituted the suit in 1984 and had admitted that the defendant was in
possession since 1982, which was much prior to the cut of date of 31st March,
1985 and accordingly the rights vested and the trial court had correctly
appreciated the legal position and had dismissed the suit.
He further went on to submit that the provisions of Section 123 of the Act of
1950 were not on the statute books when the earlier suit bearing R.S.
No.127/1970 was decided. Thus, with the change in the law, the decision of
1974 would not operate as res judicata in the suit giving rising to the
present second appeal. He further submitted that the earlier suit was in
respect of different cause of action where the primary question to be
ascertained was whether the disputed land was the 'Sahan Darwaza' of the
plaintiff and it was merely on the basis of possession that the injunction
suit had to be decided and the question of title was not directly in issue
and, therefore, the earlier findings would not operate as res judicata.
Learned counsel for the appellant to buttress his submission has relied on Ram
Narain and others vs. Sub-Divisional Officer, Kairana, Muzaffarnagar and
others, 2007 (103) RD 478 (DB); (2011) 9 SCC 107 Pirthi vs. Mohan Singh and
others; 2018 SCC Online SC Page 427 Canara Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya Setty.
The respondent on the other hand has relied upon the judgments reported in
2007 (102) RD 472 - Kayam Singh and others vs. Board of Revenue, U.P.,
Allahabad and others; 2008 (26) LCD Page 1234 - Vishwanath and others vs.
Sultan (dead) by LRs and others; 1998 (89) RD Page 742 - Rameshwar Gond (Dead)
vs. IInd Additional District Judge, Deoria and others; and 2007 (102) RD Page
235 - Majid and others vs. Rahmat Ullah.
In order to appreciate the submissions and answer the questions of law as
framed, it would be convenient that the question of law referred under res
judicata be considered separately whereas the substantial questions of law
framed at S.No.2, 3 and 4, which directly involve the scope and the
applicability of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1950 are taken together.
The Court has given its anxious considerations to the submissions of the
learned counsel for the parties, who have argued ably and the Court also has
perused the record carefully.
In order to appreciate the respective contentions, it will be necessary to
consider Section 123 of the Act of 1950 in its historical background.
By means of Uttar Pradesh Land Laws (Amendment) Act, 1974, which received the
Presidential assent on 3rd December, 1974. Section 123 of the Principal Act
came to be renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof and after sub-section (1) was
so renumbered, the following sub-section was inserted, namely:
"(2) Where any person referred to in sub-section (3) of Section 122-C has
built a house on any land held by a tenure-holder (not being a Government
lessee) and such house exists on the fifteenth day of March, 1974, the site of
such house shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, be deemed to
be settled with the owner of such house by the tenure-holder on such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed.
Explanation.-For the purposes of sub-section (2), a house existing on the
fifteenth day of March, 1974 on any land held by a tenure-holder shall, unless
the contrary is proved, be presumed to have been built by the occupant
thereof, and where the occupants are members of one family, by the head of
that family."
Thereafter coming of the aforesaid provisions the cut of date as mentioned in
sub-section (2) of the Amendment Act of fifteenth day of March, 1974 was
amended and extended to 1985 and by subsequent amendment of the year 1977 that
date came to be amended to be the 3rd June, 1995. Thus, the provisions of sub-
section (2) came to be inserted by the Uttar Pradesh Land Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1974 and thereafter it is only the cut of date mentioned in the aforesaid
sub-section (2), which has been changed by subsequent amendments.
The legislative intent and the historical perspective of Sections 122 as it
originally stood in the said Act related only to the constitution of a
committee as contemplated in Section 121 for management of the land belonging
to Gram Panchayat. It did not provide anything with regard to settlement of
housing sites to the scheduled caste or otherwise. Section 123 as it stood
originally provided for the term of such committee and method of conduct of
its business as may be prescribed. However, this section did not provide
anything else as was re-enacted in 1971 Act or 1974 Act respectively. The said
Section 123 continued until 1958 when Section 123 was deleted by Act No.37 of
1958. Section 122 has also undergone certain changes in the meantime. Section
122-C was inserted by U.P. Act No.21 of 1971. By the said Act No.21 of 1971,
Section 123 was re-enacted. Thereafter by Act No.34 of 1974 sub-section (2) of
Section 123 was inserted while describing Section 123 as amended by Act No.21
of 1971 as sub-section (1).
Thus, from a plain reading of sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Act, it
provides that where any person referred in Section 122-C(3) has built a house
on any land which is not subject matter of Section 9 of the Act or on any land
referred to in Section 122-C (2) not being the land reserved for any public
purpose and such house exists on 30th June 1985, the site of the house shall
be held by the owner of the house on such terms and conditions as prescribed
by the Rules. The aforesaid provisions does not require any formal allotment
order by Assistant Collector in charge of the sub-division concerned, rather
statute itself recognises such settlement on satisfaction of the conditions
stipulated under the aforesaid provisions of the Act.
Similarly sub-section (2) of Section 123 of the Act provides that where any
person enumerated in sub-section (3) of Section 122-C has built a house on any
land held by tenure holder (not being a Government lessee) and such house
exists on 30th June, 1985, the site of such house shall notwithstanding
anything contained in the Act, be deemed to be settled with the owner of such
house by the tenure holder on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed
under the Rules.
In the opinion of the Court the settlement of land can be made, in favour of
persons referred to in sub-section (3) of Section 122-C, if they have built
their houses on any land held by tenure holder (not being Government lessees)
and such house existed on 30th day of June, 1985. The restriction is only in
respect of the land held by a Government lessee and such restriction is not
applicable in respect of land held by tenure holders of other categories. In
other words, if other conditions of Section 123(2) of the Act are satisfied,
the land covered by house sites, of the persons enumerated under Section
122-C(3), shall be deemed to be settled with the owner of such house by the
tenure holders of the land except upon the land of Government lessee.
In this connection, it is also significant to notice that the provisions of
sub section (2) of Section 123 is couched with deeming provisions and also
with non-obstante clause having overriding effect upon the other provisions of
the Act, therefore, full effect of the provisions has to be given by the
courts.
In Kamraj Nadar Vs. Kanju Thevar (1959) S.C.R. 583(602) = A.I.R. 1958 SC 687,
it has been held that a deeming provision creates a legal fiction. The effect
of such a legal fiction is that a position which otherwise would not obtain is
deemed to obtain under certain circumstances. For ready reference the
pertinent observation made by Hon'ble Apex Court in para 28 of the decision is
reproduced as under:-
"28. ....... The provision is therefore made in Section 55-A (5) that any
person who has given a notice of retirement under Section 55-A (2) is deemed
not to be a contesting candidate for the purposes of Section 52. This is a
deeming provision and creates a legal fiction. The effect of such a legal
fiction however is that a position which otherwise would not obtain is deemed
to obtain under those circumstances..........."
It is also well settled that a deeming fiction cannot be introduced by
construction and it is the exclusive privilege of the legislature to apply a
deeming fiction in given case. A fiction cannot be resorted to for the purpose
of interpreting statutory provisions. In this connection, a reference can be
made to a decision of Bombay High Court rendered in Phate, S.R. and another
vs. C.A. Kedar, AIR 1974 Bombay 281. The pertinent observation made by Bombay
High Court in para 11 of the decision is extracted as under:-
"11. ......... A deeming fiction cannot be introduced by construction and it
is the exclusive privilege of the Legislature to apply a deeming fiction in a
given case. We cannot, therefore, by construction hold that for whatever
length during the period of office as a Councillor holds the office of
President, he must be deemed to have held the office of President for the
entire term as a Councillor.........."
In Manorey @ Manohar Vs. Board of Revenue (U.P.) and others, JT 2003 (3) S.C.
538, Hon'ble Apex Court had occasion to consider somewhat similar controversy
in context of the provisions of Section 122-B (4-F) of the Act. The pertinent
observations made in paras 8, 9 and 10 of the decision are extracted as
under:-
"8. First, the endeavour should be to analyse and identify the nature of the
right or protection conferred by sub-section (4F) of section 122B. Sub-
sections (1) to (3) and the ancillary provisions upto sub-section (4E) deal,
inter alia, with the procedure for eviction of unauthorised occupants of land
vested in gaon sabha. Sub-section (4F) carves out an exception in favour of an
agricultural labourer belonging to a scheduled caste or scheduled tribe having
land below the ceiling of 3.125 acres. Irrespective of the circumstances in
which such eligible person occupied the land vested in gaon sabha (other than
the land mentioned in section 132), no action to evict him shall be taken and
moreover, he shall be deemed to have been admitted as a bhumidhar with non
transferable rights over the land, provided he satisfies the conditions
specified in the sub-section. According to the findings of the sub-divisional
officer as well as the appellate authority, the appellant does satisfy the
conditions. If so, two legal consequences follow. Such occupant of the land
shall not be evicted by taking recourse to sub-section (1) to (3) of Section
122B. It means that the occupant of the land who satisfies the conditions
under sub-section (4F) is entitled to safeguard his possession as against the
gaon sabha. The second and more important right which sub-section (4F) confers
on him is that he is endowed with the rights of a bhumidhar with non
transferable rights. The deeming provision has been specifically enacted as a
measure of agrarian reform, with a thrust on socio-economic justice. The
statutorily conferred right of bhumidhar with non transferable rights finds
its echo of clause (b) of section 131. Any person, who acquires the rights of
bhumidhar under or in accordance with the provisions of the Act is recognised
under section 131 as falling within the class of bhumidhar. The right acquired
or accrued under sub-section (4F) is one such right that falls within the
purview of section 131(b).
9\. Thus, sub-section (4F) of Section 122B not merely provides a shield to
protect the possession as opined by the High Court, but it also confers a
positive right of bhumidhar on the occupant of the land satisfying the
criteria laid down in that sub section. Notwithstanding the clear language in
which the deeming provision is couched and the ameliorative purpose of the
legislation, the learned single judge of the High Court had taken the view on
Ramdin v. Board of Revenue (supra)(followed by the same learned judge in the
instant case) that the bhumidhari rights of the occupant contemplated by sub-
section (4F) can only blossom out when there is a specific allotment order by
the land management committee under section 198. According to the High Court,
the deeming provision contained in sub-section (4F) cannot be overstretched to
supersede the other provisions in the Act dealing specifically with the
creation of the right of bhumidhar. In other words, the view of the High Court
was that a person covered by the beneficial provision contained in sub-section
(4F) will have to still go through the process of allotment under Section 198
even though he is not liable for eviction. As a corollary to this view, it was
held that the occupant was not entitled to seek correction of revenue records,
even if his case falls under sub-section (4F) of section 122B. We hold that
the view of the High Court is clearly unsustainable. It amounts to ignoring
the effect of a deeming provision enacted with a definite social purpose. When
once the deeming provision unequivocally, provides for the admission of the
person satisfying the requisite criteria laid down in the provision as
bhumidhar with non-transferable rights under section 195, full effect must be
given to it. Section 195 lays down that the Land Management Committee, with
the previous approval of the assistant collector in-charge of the sub
division, shall have the right to admit any person as bhumidhar with non-
transferable rights to any vacant land (other than the land falling under
Section 132) vested in the gaon sabha. Section 198 prescribes "the order of
preference in admitting persons to land under sections 195 and 197" The last
part of sub-section (4F) of section 122B confers by a statutory fiction the
status of bhumidhar with non transferable rights on the eligible occupant of
the land as if he has been admitted as such under section 195. In substance
and in effect the deeming provision declares that the statutorily recognised
bhumidhar should be as good as a person admitted to bhumidhari rights under
section 195 read with other provisions. In a way, sub-section (4F) supplements
section 195 by specifically granting the same benefit to a person coming
within the protective umbrella of that sub-section. The need to approach the
gaon sabha under section 195 read with section 198 is obviated by the deeming
provision contained in sub-section (4F). We find no warrant to constrict the
scope of deeming provision.
10\. That being the legal position, there is no bar against an application
being made by the eligible person coming within the four corners of sub-
section (4F) to effect necessary changes in the revenue record. When once the
claim of the applicant is accepted, it is the bounden duty of the concerned
revenue authorities to make necessary entries in the revenue records to give
effect to the statutory mandate. The obligation to do so arises by necessary
implication by reason of the statutory right vested in the person coming
within the ambit of sub-section (4F). The lack of specific provision for
making an application under the Act is no ground to dismiss the application as
not maintainable. The revenue records should naturally fall in line with the
rights statutorily recognized. The sub-divisional officer was therefore within
his rights to allow the application and direct the correction of the records.
The Board of Revenue and the High Court should not have set aside the order.
The fact that the Land Management Committee of gaon sabha had created lease
hold rights in favour of the respondents herein is of no consequence. Such
lease, in the face of the statutory right of the appellant, is nonest in the
eye of law and is liable to be ignored.
Thus from the consideration of the aforesaid legal provisions, Section 123(2)
of the U.P. Z.A. and L.R. Act has been enacted with a non-obstante clause, the
Court despite any other provisions contrary contained in the Act itself has to
give effect to deeming provision under the statute and the Court would assume
those facts on which the legal fiction is created by statute even if those
facts do not exist in reality and the rights of the parties will have to be
determined on such imaginary things to define the rights of the parties, for
which such legal fiction has been created by the statute.
It is in this connection that it is to be pointed out that on satisfaction of
certain conditions laid down in Section 123(2) of the Act, the legal fiction
has been created for the purposes of settlement of house site with the owner
of the houses by the tenure-holder and those conditions are that the houses
must have been built by a person referred to in Section 122-C(3) on the land
of the tenure-holder not being Government lessee before 30th June, 1985.
On the satisfaction of the aforesaid conditions, the Court will have to assume
the necessary facts on which the tenure-holder of the land could settle the
house site with the owner of the houses even if in reality all necessary facts
pertaining to such settlement were not existing, therefore, in the given facts
and circumstances of the case, since admittedly the house of the defendant was
existing on the 30th June, 1985, the land covered by the house site shall be
deemed to be settled with them by the tenure-holder of the land in question
irrespective of the circumstances in which such eligible person have build
their houses over the land in dispute. It is immaterial whether they built
houses with the permission of the tenure-holder in question or otherwise by
taking forcible possession of the land or such possession is unauthorized or a
trespasser.
This Court is fortified in its view and reliance is placed on a Division Bench
judgment of this Court reported in 2007 (103) RD Page 478 (DB) which is a
binding precedent.
Applying the principles which have been culled out to the present giving facts
and circumstances, it is clear that the construction of the defendant was
existing, admittedly according to the plaintiff, since 1985 i.e. prior to the
cut of date as mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 123. The plaintiff has
also admitted that the possession of the defendant was forcibly taken by the
defendant in 1982 and he had raised his construction. Thus, this Court is of
the firm opinion that the defendant was entitled to the benefit of sub-section
(2) of Section 123.
The submission of the learned counsel for the respondent that the land in
question was 'abadi' and, therefore, Section 123 of the Act of 1950 does not
apply, also does not impresses this Court. It will be relevant to note that
the first appellate Court as well as the learned counsel for the respondent
has referred to the order of the Prescribed Authority (Ceiling) dated
01.11.1969 wherein the said Authority while exempting the land of Plot No.216
(Old No.338), situate in Village Bhoga Jot wherein it indicated that the land
is being used by the predecessors of transferee who are occupying the same, by
raising their residential structures and thus according to the Ceiling
Authority, the said plot was converted into 'abadi'. This Court finds that
merely because the Ceiling Authority found that the land was not cultivable
and was being used for 'abadi' will not render the same as the 'abadi'
inasmuch as the word "abadi", has a different connotation under the Revenue
Laws. In order for the land to be declared as 'abadi' there has to be a proper
declaration either during consolidation operations when land is cut out of the
'chaks' for abadi or upon the preparation of the revenue records and unless
and until the land is recorded as 'abadi' in the khatauni, it will not be
treated as 'abadi' even though some residential constructions may have been
raised thereon.
The khatauni of the land in question as placed on record indicates that the
said land continued to be recorded as the grove land. Moreover, even the sale-
deed by which the plaintiff had purchased the property does not indicate that
it is the abadi which is being sold rather the plaintiff stated that he had
purchased the property from its Bhumidhari Shri Daya Shankar Bajpai. Thus, the
plaintiff-respondent cannot derive any benefit from the fact that the said
authorities treated the land to be abadi since it had certain structures
thereon. This notion primarily prevailed in the mind of the first appellate
court, which is erroneous and thus the finding on the aforesaid basis stands
vitiated and cannot be sustained.
From the provisions of the Act of 1950, it clearly indicates that only upon a
declaration made under Section 143 of the Act, the effect of that provision is
that only Chapter-VIII of the Act other than under Section 143 which cease to
apply in respect of the land which is subject matter of such declaration and
thereupon the bhumidhar of land with non-transferable rights shall be governed
by his personal law to which he is subject in the matter of devolution or
succession of the land alone. It implies that only in the matter of devolution
or succession of the land under such declaration the personal law of the
Bhumidhar with transferable rights to which he is subject shall apply but so
far as other purposes are concerned, the provisions of Chapter-VIII of the
Act, shall continue to apply without any restriction or legal embargo thereon.
The consequences ensuing due to such declaration under Section 143(1) of the
Act are clearly emanating from the provisions of sub section (2) and (3) of
the aforesaid section and do not admit of any ambiguity, therefore, the same
should be understood in the context of the provisions of sub sections (2) and
(3) of Section 143 only and should not be dilated or widened to cover other
provisions of the Act.
In any event of the matter the provisions of other Chapters of the Act
including the provisions of Chapter VII of the Act, which contains the
provisions of section-123 shall continue to apply with full force and
Section-143(1) would not affect the operation and applicability of the
provisions of Chapter VII of the Act, which includes Section 123 in respect of
such land and further on such declaration, the land which is subject matter of
declaration is neither excluded from the definition of the "land" under
Section 3(14) of the Act nor the Bhumidhar with transferable rights of land
ceases to be Bhumidhar with transferable rights despite the use of the land is
changed for the purposes, not connected with agriculture, horticulture or
animal husbandry which includes pisciculture and poultry farming. In other
words, in spite of such declaration and change in user, the land would remain
as such within the meaning of land defined under Section 3(14) of the Act and
Bhumidhar with transferable rights would also remain intact with aforesaid
status and rights, and in the case at hand since the land in question is
entered in the revenue records and there is no declaration under Section 143
of the Act either thus the land in question continues to be governed by the
Act of 1950 including Section 123.
Thus the submissions of the learned counsel for the respondent in this regard
is misconceived and is accordingly rejected.
Now coming to the aspect as to the fact regarding retrospectivity of the
provisions is concerned, it is no doubt true that unless and until any
provision is specifically provided to be retrospective, it shall operate
prospectively only.
The judgments cited by the learned counsel for the respondent to the effect
that Section 123 of the Act is of prospective operation is settled and there
can be no quarrel on the aforesaid proposition. Significantly in all the cases
so cited by the learned counsel for the respondent, the proceedings had been
initiated prior to the amendment of 1974 and more so the amendment of 1974 in
the Act of 1950 had come into force after the decree was passed by the Court
of first instance. After the amendment of 1974 parties sought to take the
benefit of the amended Section 123 and thus the question arose whether the
said amendment could operates retrospectively to nullify the decree already
passed by competent courts. It is in that context and background it was held
that the provisions of Section 123 of the Act of 1950 is prospective and in no
manner can it effect a decree already passed by a competent court.
Thus, the judgments cited by the learned counsel for the respondent are
clearly distinguishable and do not help the respondents inasmuch as in the
present case, the suit was filed on 01.09.1984, the written statement was
filed on 17.02.1986 when the cut of date had been amended to 30th June, 1985
and was in force. Hence, the provisions of Section 123 of the Act of 1950 was
already on the statute books and by mere change of the cut of date it cannot
be said that the provision itself is having retrospective effect rather the
correct position as obtained is that on the date of institution of suit on
01.09.1984 the provisions of Section 123 was already in force. The change of
cut of date to 30th June, 1985 was made during the pendency of the suit and in
any case prior to the date of decree passed by the Court of first instance.
Moreover, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pirthi vs. Mohan Singh
(supra) had the occasion to consider the effect of provisions coming into
force during the pendency of the proceedings and after considering the
Constitution Bench judgment, the Apex Court held that if the amending
provision comes into effect before the date of decree is passed by the court
of first instance, it would apply to pending proceedings. However, the said
liberty will not be applicable if such provisions are amended for the first
time during the pendency of the appeal. The relevant paragraphs of the said
judgment are being reproduced as under:-
"24. After analyzing all the decisions cited therein, the Constitution Bench
has concluded thus: (Shyam Sunder vs. Ram Kumar, (2001) 8 SCC 24 (Paras 44-48)
"44. From the aforesaid decisions, the legal principle that emerges is that
the function of a declaratory or explanatory Act is to supply an obvious
omission or to clear up doubts as to meaning of the previous Act and such an
Act comes into effect from the date of passing of the previous Act. Learned
counsel for the appellants strongly relied upon a decision of a two-Judge
Bench of this Court in Mithilesh Kumari vs. Prem Behari Khare, (1989) 2 SCC 95
in support of his argument. In the said decision, it was held by this Court
that the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 being a declaratory Act,
the provisions of Section 4 of the Act have retroactive operation. The
reliance on this decision by the appellants' counsel is totally misplaced as
this decision was overruled in R. Rajagopal Reddy vs. Padmini Chandrasekharan,
(1995) 2 SCC 630 wherein it was held that the Act was not passed to clear any
doubt that existed as to the common law or the meaning of effect of any
statute and it was, therefore, not a declaratory Act.
45\. We have already quoted substituted Section 15 of the amending Act but do
not find that the amending Act either expressly or by necessary implication
intended to supply an omission or to clear up a doubt as to the meaning of the
previous Section 15 of the parent Act. The previous Section 15 of the parent
Act was precise, plain and simple. There was no ambiguity in it. The meaning
of the words used in Section 15 of the parent Act was never in doubt and there
was no omission in its phraseology which was required to be supplied by the
amending Act. Moreover, the amending Act either expressly or by implication
was not intended to be retroactive and for that reason we hold that amending
Act 10 of 1995 is not a declaratory Act and, therefore, it has no
retrospective operation.
46\. For the aforestated reasons, we approve the view of law taken in Didar
Singh vs. Ishar Singh, (2001) 8 SCC 24 and further hold that the decision in
the case of Ramjilal v. Ghisa Ram, (1996) 7 SCC 507 does not lay down the
correct view of law.
47\. The result of the aforesaid discussion is that the amending Act being
prospective in operation does not affect the rights of the parties to the
litigation on the date of adjudication of the pre-emption suit and the
appellate court is not required to take into account or give effect to the
substituted Section 15 introduced by the amending Act.
48\. In view of what has been stated above, these appeals fail and accordingly
are dismissed, but there shall be no order as to costs."
25\. From the above discussion, particularly, in para 45, the Constitution
Bench observed that the Amending Act 10/1995 is not a declaratory Act and,
therefore, it has no retrospective operation. In para 46, the Constitution
Bench has approved the view of law taken in Didar Singh (supra) and further
held that the decision in the case of Ramjilal (supra) does not lay down the
correct view of law. No doubt, in the penultimate para 47, the Constitution
Bench has concluded that the amending Act being prospective in operation does
not affect the rights of the parties to the litigation on the date of
adjudication of the pre-emption suit and the appellate court is not required
to take into account or give effect to the substituted Section 15 introduced
by the amending Act. It is clear that the appellate court is not required to
take into account or give effect to the substituted Section 15 introduced by
the amending Act. On the other hand, as discussed and concluded in para 46,
the dictum laid down in Didar Singh (supra) has been approved.
26\. In Didar Singh (supra), it was held that in a suit for pre-emption, pre-
emptor must prove his right to pre-empt up to the date of the decree of the
first court and any loss of right or subsequent change in law after the date
of adjudication of the suit and pre-tendency of appeal would not affect the
decree of the first court. The said view has been approved by the Constitution
Bench. In other words, in a suit for pre-emption, the pre-emptor must prove
his right to pre-empt up to the date of decree of the first court. To put it
clear, the pre-emptor must have the right to pre-empt on the date of sale on
the date of filing of the suit and on the date of passing of the decree by the
court of the first instance [Emphasis supplied].
27\. In the case on hand, the amendment Act came into force with effect from
17.05.1995 and suit had been laid on 31.10.1992. In other words, on the date
of institution of the suit, the plaintiff/pre-emptor had a right to claim
"right of pre-emption". However, during the pendency of the suit, since the
amendment Act came into force, deleting the right of pre-emption and in the
absence of such right on the date of passing of the decree by the court of
first instance, we are of the view that both the courts below have correctly
appreciated the effect of the amendment and the High Court also rightly
dismissed the second appeal holding that the plaintiff had lost the character
of a co-owner during the pendency of the suit by virtue of the amendment Act."
Thus, the entire submission made by the learned counsel for the respondent
that the change of cut of date and giving its benefit to the defendant-
appellant would in effect mean to apply the provision of Section 123
retrospectively is fallacious and deserves to be rejected.
Now, lastly coming to the applicability of res judicata in respect of findings
of the earlier proceedings to the present suit, it has been submitted that the
findings of possession and ownership returned in earlier suit No.127/1970
would operate as res judicata in the present suit as it was between the same
parties and related to the same property. Even though at first blush, the
argument made by the learned counsel for the respondents seem to be attractive
but in fact it is also fallacious and deserves to be rejected for the reason
that in the earlier suit, the question of title was not involved. It was
merely a suit for simplicitor injunction. Moreover, the provisions of Section
123 of the Act was not available at that time which as indicated above came
only on the statute book for the first time in 1974. Thus, with the change in
law, if there is a change in the legal effect, the earlier judgment would not
operate as res judicata. In this regard, the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Canara Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya Setty (supra) is germane and important
and the relevant paragraph is quoted:-
"(ii) An issue of law which arises between the same parties in a subsequent
suit or proceeding is not res judicata if, by an erroneous decision given on a
statutory prohibition in the former suit or proceeding, the statutory
prohibition is not given effect to. This is despite the fact that the matter
in issue between the parties may be the same as that directly and
substantially in issue in the previous suit or proceeding. This is for the
reason that in such cases, the rights of the parties are not the only matter
for consideration (as is the case of an erroneous interpretation of a statute
inter parties), as the public policy contained in the statutory prohibition
cannot be set at naught. This is for the same reason as that contained in
matters which pertain to issues of law that raise jurisdictional questions. We
have seen how, in Natraj Studios (supra), it is the public policy of the
statutory prohibition contained in Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act that has
to be given effect to. Likewise, the public policy contained in other
statutory prohibitions, which need not necessarily go to jurisdiction of a
Court, must equally be given effect to, as otherwise special principles of law
are fastened upon parties when special considerations relating to public
policy mandate that this cannot be done.
(iii) Another exception to this general rule follows from the matter in issue
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
In the facts and circumstances, there shall be no order as to costs.
The registry is directed to remit the record of the trial court within two
weeks.
Order Date :- 11 January, 2019 Rakesh/-
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
admitted by this Court by means of the order dated 01.12.1993. However, at the
time of admission, the substantial questions of law were not formulated.
With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the Court formulated
the following substantial questions of law, which are reproduced hereinafter.
(i) Whether the judgment and decree passed in R.S. No.127/1970 will operate as
res judicata in the present suit filed by plaintiff-respondent and its effect
?
(ii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff was maintainable and any cause action
had accrued on 01.09.1984 ?
(iii) Whether S.D.O. has power to declare the ownership under Section 123 of
the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 ? and
(iv) Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Section 123(2) of the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 and if so, its effect on
the suit ?
In order to answer the aforesaid questions, certain facts necessary for
effectual adjudication of the controversy, are being noticed hereinafter.
The plaintiff-respondent Mohd. Abdul Hafeez instituted a suit for possession
against Shri Pyare on the pleadings that he was the owner of the plot bearing
No.216(N) measuring 0.37 decimal, situate in Moza Bhoga Jot, Tehsil
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
admitted by this Court by means of the order dated 01.12.1993. However, at the
time of admission, the substantial questions of law were not formulated.
With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the Court formulated
the following substantial questions of law, which are reproduced hereinafter.
(i) Whether the judgment and decree passed in R.S. No.127/1970 will operate as
res judicata in the present suit filed by plaintiff-respondent and its effect
?
(ii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff was maintainable and any cause action
had accrued on 01.09.1984 ?
(iii) Whether S.D.O. has power to declare the ownership under Section 123 of
the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 ? and
(iv) Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Section 123(2) of the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 and if so, its effect on
the suit ?
In order to answer the aforesaid questions, certain facts necessary for
effectual adjudication of the controversy, are being noticed hereinafter.
The plaintiff-respondent Mohd. Abdul Hafeez instituted a suit for possession
against Shri Pyare on the pleadings that he was the owner of the plot bearing
No.216(N) measuring 0.37 decimal, situate in Moza Bhoga Jot, Tehsil
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
admitted by this Court by means of the order dated 01.12.1993. However, at the
time of admission, the substantial questions of law were not formulated.
With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the Court formulated
the following substantial questions of law, which are reproduced hereinafter.
(i) Whether the judgment and decree passed in R.S. No.127/1970 will operate as
res judicata in the present suit filed by plaintiff-respondent and its effect
?
(ii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff was maintainable and any cause action
had accrued on 01.09.1984 ?
(iii) Whether S.D.O. has power to declare the ownership under Section 123 of
the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 ? and
(iv) Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Section 123(2) of the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 and if so, its effect on
the suit ?
In order to answer the aforesaid questions, certain facts necessary for
effectual adjudication of the controversy, are being noticed hereinafter.
The plaintiff-respondent Mohd. Abdul Hafeez instituted a suit for possession
against Shri Pyare on the pleadings that he was the owner of the plot bearing
No.216(N) measuring 0.37 decimal, situate in Moza Bhoga Jot, Tehsil
Kaiserganj, District Bahraich. He had purchased the aforesaid plot by means of
a registered sale-deed dated 03.08.1973 from Shri Daya Shankar Bajpai. It was
also pleaded that the defendant Shri Pyare had instituted a suit bearing R.S.
No.127 of 1970 for injunction against four defendants including Shri Daya
Shankar Bajpai and the said suit was dismissed on 12.05.1973. It was held that
Pyare could not establish his possession or right over the property in
question. His appeal bearing No.148 of 1973 was also dismissed. However, some
time in the year 1982, the defendant Pyare forcibly occupied the property in
question and started raising construction. As he refused to remove his
construction, consequently a suit for possession was filed on 01.09.1984.
The defendant Pyare while filing his written statement in Paragraph-13
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
An interesting question arises in the aforesaid second appeal, which was
admitted by this Court by means of the order dated 01.12.1993. However, at the
time of admission, the substantial questions of law were not formulated.
With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, the Court formulated
the following substantial questions of law, which are reproduced hereinafter.
(i) Whether the judgment and decree passed in R.S. No.127/1970 will operate as
res judicata in the present suit filed by plaintiff-respondent and its effect
?
(ii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff was maintainable and any cause action
had accrued on 01.09.1984 ?
(iii) Whether S.D.O. has power to declare the ownership under Section 123 of
the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 ? and
(iv) Whether the appellant is entitled to the benefit of Section 123(2) of the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 and if so, its effect on
the suit ?
In order to answer the aforesaid questions, certain facts necessary for
effectual adjudication of the controversy, are being noticed hereinafter.
The plaintiff-respondent Mohd. Abdul Hafeez instituted a suit for possession
against Shri Pyare on the pleadings that he was the owner of the plot bearing
No.216(N) measuring 0.37 decimal, situate in Moza Bhoga Jot, Tehsil
Kaiserganj, District Bahraich. He had purchased the aforesaid plot by means of
a registered sale-deed dated 03.08.1973 from Shri Daya Shankar Bajpai. It was
also pleaded that the defendant Shri Pyare had instituted a suit bearing R.S.
No.127 of 1970 for injunction against four defendants including Shri Daya
Shankar Bajpai and the said suit was dismissed on 12.05.1973. It was held that
Pyare could not establish his possession or right over the property in
question. His appeal bearing No.148 of 1973 was also dismissed. However, some
time in the year 1982, the defendant Pyare forcibly occupied the property in
question and started raising construction. As he refused to remove his
construction, consequently a suit for possession was filed on 01.09.1984.
The defendant Pyare while filing his written statement in Paragraph-13
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
In light of the above, the question raised by the respondent regarding res
judicata also fails and in view of above detailed discussions, it is clear
that the first appellate court misdirected itself and thus the findings
recorded cannot be sustained, accordingly the judgment and decree dated
16.09.1993 deserves to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.
In the result, the second appeal is allowed and the judgment passed by the
first appellate Court dated 16.09.1993 in Civil Appeal No.11 of 1991 is set
aside and the judgment and decree passed by the First Additional Munsif,
Bahraich dated 05.02.1992 passed in Regular Suit No.230 of 1984 is affirmed.
