Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
M/S. Lg Electronics India Pvt. ... vs Acit, Noida on 15 February, 2019
           IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, DELHI BENCH 'I-2',
                                 NEW DELHI
           BEFORE SHRI N. K. BILLAIYA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER, AND
                  MS. SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                               ITA No.953/DEL/2014
                            [Assessment Year: 2009-10]
    LG    L.G    Electronics  India   Pvt.        Ltd.      Vs. The A.C.I.T
    Vs. No.51, Udyog Vihar,                                     Circle -3
    Plot Surajpur Kasna Road                                    Noida
         Greater Noida, Gautam Budh Nagar,
    PAN No. AAACL 1745Q
         (APPELLANT)                                            (RESPONDENT)
         Appellant by                 Sh. Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate
                                      Sh. Ramit katiyal, Advocate
                                      Sh. Neeraj Jain, Advocate
         Respondent by                Sh. H. K. Chaudhary, CIT DR
                         Date of Hearing              : 05.02.2019
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
                                       ORDER
PER N. K. BILLAIYA, AM:
This appeal by the assessee is preferred against the order dated 06.02.20145
framed u/s 144C r.w.s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Act' for short] pertaining to AY 2009-10.  2
2\. Ground Nos. 1 to 3 are general in nature and need no adjudication.
3\. Ground No. 4 relates to Transfer Pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.
5,37,59,29,670/- in relation to Advertisement, Marketing and Sales Promotion
Expenses [AMP] incurred by the assessee.
4\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee, during the
relevant previous year, incurred following expenditure on Advertisement,
Marketing and Sales Promotion expenses ('AMP expenses') aggregating to Rs.
851,84,13,441/-:
> Sl Particulars Amount (Rs) No.
             1      Multi              Product          19,48,82,269
                    Advertisement
             2      Product Advertisement              152,43,41,881
             3      Sponsorship                          5,49,61,260
             4      Point of Sales Activity            139,54,95,848
             5      Monthly scheme                     353,11,65,707
             6      Distributor discount                 6,82,78,903
             7      Dealer promotion                    21,02,84,392
             8      LG Shoppe margin                     1,46,10,627
                                           3
           Sl
                            Particulars              Amount (Rs)
           No.
             9      0% Finance Scheme                   13,61,64,216
             10     Tie Ups       (Quantitative         11,02,03,965
                    Targets)
                    Reimbursement of
                    Expenses received from
             11     AE                                 127,80,24,307
                    Total                             851,84,13,375
> 5\. The TPO undertook benchmarking analysis of AMP expenses applying bright
> line test by comparing ratio of AMP expenses to sale of the assessee with
> that of the comparable companies and held that any expenditure in excess of
> the bright line was for promotion of the brand/trade name (owned by the AE)
> which needed to be suitably compensated by the associated enterprise. The
> TPO, accordingly, compared the AMP expenditure incurred by the assessee as
> percentage of turnover at 9.21% with average AMP expenditure/sales ratio of
> 2.98% of the following comparable companies:
                         Name of company             AMP/sales
                 Allied Photographics India Ltd           0.49%
                 HCL Info Systems Ltd.                     0.48%
                 Home Solutions Retail (India) Ltd         5.30%
                 Infinity Retail Ltd                       4.71%
                                          4
                Vivek Ltd                                3.96%
                Arithmetic Mean                         2.98%
> 6\. The TPO further charged mark up of 15.46% and, accordingly, made
> adjustment of Rs. 5,37,59,29,670/- on account of the alleged brand building
> activity undertaken by the assessee for the AE, as under:
>
               Computation of TP adjustment             Rs.
             Value of sales                         9246,37,05,303
             AMP / Sales of the comparables                   2.98%
             Amount that represents bright line      275,54,18,418
             Expenditure on AMP by assessee          851,84,13,375
             Expenditure in excess of bright line    576,29,94,957
             Mark-up at 15.46%                        89,09,59,020
             Reimbursement      that     assessee    665,39,53,977
             should have received.
             Reimbursement actually received         127,80,24,307
             Adjustment to assessee's income        537,59,29,670
                                          5
> 7\. The ld. counsel for the assessee stated that the issue is decided by the
> Tribunal in assessee's own case for assessment year 2008-09 in ITA No.
> 6253/DEL/2012 vide Ground No. 3.3. of that appeal.
8\. The ld. DR stated that the facts under consideration are different and,
therefore, distinguishable from the earlier assessment year. It is the say of
the ld. DR that a survey operation u/s 133A of the Act was conducted on
24.06.2010 and during the course of survey, statements of expatriate employees
show that LG Korea is exercising control and consideration over LG India.
Drawing support from the statements, the ld. DR strongly contended that during
the year under consideration, the assessee has incurred AMP expenses and its
Associated Enterprises [AEs] should have reimbursed the same and, therefore,
there is no error or infirmity in the adjustment made by the TPO.
9\. We have heard the submissions of the ld. DR. We have also gone through the
statement of expatriate employees which are extracted at pages 10 and 11 of
the order of the TPO. A perusal of the statements show that LG Korea has
control over the operations of LG, India. However, because of such services,
the assessee has charged Asia  6 Regional Headquarter expenses, but nowhere it
proves that the assessee has incurred AMP expenses for the brand building of
its AE. On the other hand, we find force in the contention of the ld. AR. An
identical issue has been considered and decided by the Tribunal in assessee's
own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09. The relevant
findings of the co-ordinate bench read as under:
> "10. At the outset, we have to state that the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in
> the case of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt Ltd vs CIT 374 ITR
> 118 has discarded the BLT. The Hon'ble High Court, at para 120 held as
> under:
> > "120. Notwithstanding the above position, the argument of the Revenue goes
> beyond adequate and fair compensation and the ratio of the majority decision
> mandates that in each case where an Indian subsidiary of a foreign AE incurs
> AMP expenditure should be subjected to the bright line test on the basis of
> comparables mentioned in paragraph 17.4. Any excess expenditure beyond the
> bright line should be regarded as a separate international transaction of
> brand building. Such a broad-brush universal approach is unwarranted and
> would amount to judicial legislation. During the course of arguments, it was
> accepted by the Revenue that the TPOs/Assessing Officers have universally
> applied  7 bright line test to decipher and compute value of international
> transaction and thereafter applied Cost Plus Method or Cost Method to
> compute the arm's length price.
> The said approach is not mandated and stipulated in the Act or the Rules.
> The list of parameters for ascertaining the comparables for applying bright
> line test in paragraph 17.4 and, thereafter, the assertion in paragraph 17.6
> that comparison can be only made by choosing comparable of domestic cases
> not using any foreign brand, is contrary to the Rules. It amounts to writing
> and prescribing a mandatory procedure or test which is not stipulated in the
> Act or the Rules. This is beyond what the statute in Chapter X postulates.
> Rules also do not so stipulate."
11\. Respectfully following the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
[supra], we hold that BLT has no mandate under the Act and accordingly, the
same cannot be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining if there exists an
international transaction of brand promotion services between the assessee and
the AE.
12\. In our considered opinion, while dealing with the issue of bench marking
of AMP expenses, the Revenue needs to establish the existence of international
transaction before undertaking bench marking of AMP expenses and such
transaction cannot be inferred merely on the basis of BLT. For this
proposition, we draw support  8 from the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court in the case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd 381 ITR 117.
13\. In this case, the Hon'ble High Court held that existence of an
international transaction needs to be established de hors the Bright Line
Test. The relevant finding of the Hon'ble High Court reads as under:
> "43. Secondly, the cases which were disposed of by the judgment, i.e. of the
> three Assessees Canon, Reebok and Sony Ericsson were all of distributors of
> products manufactured by foreign AEs. The said Assessees were themselves not
> manufacturers. In any event, none of them appeared to have questioned the
> existence of an international transaction involving the concerned foreign
> AE. It was also not disputed that the said international transaction of
> incurring of AMP expenses could be made subject matter of transfer pricing
> adjustment in terms of Section 92 of the Act.
44\. However, in the present appeals, the very existence of an international
transaction is in issue. The specific case of MSIL is that the Revenue has
failed to show the existence of any agreement, understanding or arrangement
between MSIL and SMC regarding the AMP spend of MSIL. It is pointed out that
the BLT has been applied to the AMP spend by MSIL to (a) deduce the existence
of an international transaction involving SMC and (b) to make a quantitative
9 'adjustment' to the ALP to the extent that the expenditure exceeds the
expenditure by comparable entities. It is submitted that with the decision in
Sony Ericsson having disapproved of BLT as a legitimate means of determining
the ALP of an international transaction involving AMP expenses, the very basis
of the Revenue's case is negated.
XXX
51\. The result of the above discussion is that in the considered view of the
Court the Revenue has failed to demonstrate the existence of an international
transaction only on account of the quantum of AMP expenditure by MSIL.
Secondly, the Court is of the view that the decision in Sony Ericsson holding
that there is an international transaction as a result of the AMP expenses
cannot be held to have answered the issue as far as the present Assessee MSIL
is concerned since finding in Sony Ericsson to the above effect is in the
context of those Assessees whose cases have been disposed of by that judgment
and who did not dispute the existence of an international transaction
regarding AMP expenses.
XXX
60\. As far as clause (a) is concerned, SMC is a non-resident. It has, since
2002, a substantial share holding in MSIL and can, therefore, be construed to
be a non-resident AE of MSIL. While it does have a number of 'transactions'
with MSIL on the issue of licensing of IPRs, supply of raw materials, etc. the
question remains whether it has any 'transaction' concerning the AMP
expenditure. That brings  10 us to clauses (b) and (c). They cannot be read
disjunctively. Even if resort is had to the residuary part of clause (b) to
contend that the AMP spend of MSIL is "any other transaction having a bearing"
on its "profits, incomes or losses", for a 'transaction' there has to be two
parties. Therefore for the purposes of the 'means' part of clause (b) and the
'includes' part of clause (c), the Revenue has to show that there exists an
'agreement' or 'arrangement' or 'understanding' between MSIL and SMC whereby
MSIL is obliged to spend excessively on AMP in order to promote the brand of
SMC. As far as the legislative intent is concerned, it is seen that certain
transactions listed in the Explanation under clauses (i) (a) to (e) to Section
92B are described as 'international transaction'. This might be only an
illustrative list, but significantly it does not list AMP spending as one such
transaction.
61\. The submission of the Revenue in this regard is: "The mere fact that the
service or benefit has been provided by one party to the other would by itself
constitute a transaction irrespective of whether the consideration for the
same has been paid or remains payable or there is a mutual agreement to not
charge any compensation for the service or benefit." Even if the word
'transaction' is given its widest connotation, and need not involve any
transfer of money or a written agreement as suggested by the Revenue, and even
if resort is had to Section 92F (v) which defines 'transaction' to include
'arrangement', 'understanding' or  11 'action in concert', 'whether formal or
in writing', it is still incumbent on the Revenue to show the existence of an
'understanding' or an 'arrangement' or 'action in concert' between MSIL and
SMC as regards AMP spend for brand promotion. In other words, for both the
'means' part and the 'includes' part of Section 92B (1) what has to be
definitely shown is the existence of transaction whereby MSIL has been obliged
to incur AMP of a certain level for SMC for the purposes of promoting the
brand of SMC.
XXX
68....................In other words, it emphasises that where the price is
something other than what would be paid or charged by one entity from another
in uncontrolled situations then that would be the ALP. The Court does not see
this as a machinery provision particularly in light of the fact that the BLT
has been expressly negatived by the Court in Sony Ericsson. Therefore, the
existence of an international transaction will have to be established de hors
the BLT."
14\. In the light of the aforesaid finding of the Hon'ble High Court, before
embarking upon a benchmarking analysis, the Revenue needs to demonstrate on
the basis of tangible material or evidence that there exists an international
transaction between the assessee and the AE. Needless to mention, that the
existence of such a transaction cannot be a matter of inference.  12
15\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Whirlpool of India Ltd vs DCIT
381 ITR 154 has held that there should be some tangible evidence on record to
demonstrate that there exists an international transaction in relation with
incurring of AMP expenses for development of brand owned by the AE. In our
considered opinion, in the absence of such demonstration, there is no question
of undertaking any benchmarking of AMP expenses. The relevant findings of the
Hon'ble High Court in the case of Whirlpool of India Ltd [supra] read as
under:
> "32. Under Sections 92B to 92F, the pre-requisite for commencing the TP
> exercise is to show the existence of an international transaction. The next
> step is to determine the price of such transaction. The third step would be
> to determine the ALP by applying one of the five price discovery methods
> specified in Section 92C. The fourth step would be to compare the price of
> the transaction that is shown to exist with that of the ALP and make the TP
> adjustment by substituting the ALP for the contract price.
XXX
34\. The TP adjustment is not expected to be made by deducing from the
difference between the 'excessive' AMP expenditure incurred by the Assessee
and the AMP expenditure of a comparable entity that an international
transaction exists and then proceed to make the adjustment  13 of the
difference in order to determine the value of such AMP expenditure incurred
for the AE.
35\. It is for the above reason that the BLT has been rejected as a valid
method for either determining the existence of international transaction or
for the determination of ALP of such transaction. Although, under Section 92B
read with Section 92F (v), an international transaction could include an
arrangement, understanding or action in concert, this cannot be a matter of
inference. There has to be some tangible evidence on record to show that two
parties have "acted in concert".
XXX
37\. The provisions under Chapter X do envisage a 'separate entity concept'.
In other words, there cannot be a presumption that in the present case since
WOIL is a subsidiary of Whirlpool USA, all the activities of WOIL are in fact
dictated by Whirlpool USA. Merely because Whirlpool USA has a financial
interest, it cannot be presumed that AMP expense incurred by the WOIL are at
the instance or on behalf of Whirlpool USA. There is merit in the contention
of the Assessee that the initial onus is on the Revenue to demonstrate through
some tangible material that the two parties acted in concert and further that
there was an agreement to enter into an international transaction concerning
AMP expenses.
XXX  14
39\. It is in this context that it is submitted, and rightly, by the Assessee
that there must be a machinery provision in the Act to bring an international
transaction involving AMP expense under the tax radar. In the absence of any
clear statutory provision giving guidance as to how the existence of an
international transaction involving AMP expense, in the absence of an express
agreement in that behalf, should be ascertained and further how the ALP of
such a transaction should be ascertained, it cannot be left entirely to
surmises and conjectures of the TPO.
XXX
47\. For the aforementioned reasons, the Court is of the view that as far as
the present appeals are concerned, the Revenue has been unable to demonstrate
by some tangible material that there is an international transaction involving
AMP expenses between WOIL and Whirlpool USA. In the absence of that first
step, the question of determining the ALP of such a transaction does not
arise. In any event, in the absence of a machinery provision it would be
hazardous for any TPO to proceed to determine the ALP of such a transaction
since BLT has been negatived by this Court as a valid method of determining
the existence of an international transaction and thereafter its ALP."
16\. The case of the Revenue is that Indian subsidiary incurred certain
expenses for the promotion of brands in India and for development of the
Indian market and the  15 creation of marketing intangibles in India which
remain the functions of the parent company which is the entrepreneur. The
brands are owned by the parent company. The Indian subsidiary only acts on
behalf of the parent company. The Revenue alleges that eventual beneficiary of
the acts of the Indian subsidiary is the parent company. Any benefit that may
accrue to the Indian subsidiary is at best incidental to the entire exercise.
This action of the Indian subsidiary amounts to rendering of a service to its
foreign AE for which arm's length compensation was payable by foreign AE to
its Indian subsidiary.
17\. It is the say of the ld. DR that the functions carried out by the
assessee are in the nature of development, enhancement, maintenance,
protection and exploitation of the relevant intangibles and thus, the assessee
deserves compensation.
18\. The case of the ld. DR is that the act of incurring of AMP expenses by
the assessee is not a unilateral act and is an international transaction for
following reasons:-
> i) Though, the AMP expenditure may be for the purpose of business of the
> assessee but it is in performance of function of market development for the
> brands and products of the AE that enhances the value of the marketing
> intangibles owned by the  16 foreign AE, and hence there is a transaction of
> rendering of service of market development to the AE.
> ii) The short term benefit of the transaction accrues both to assessee and
> AE in terms of higher sales but long term benefit accrues only to the AE.
iii) The benefit to the AE is not incidental but significant. Once, it is
established that the act of incurring of AMP expenditure is not a unilateral
act of the assessee; the AE needs to compensate the assessee for AMP expenses.
iv) It is a fact that brands are valuable and even loss making enterprises
having no real assets are purchased for substantial value for their brand and
marketing intangibles.
v) The issue is not that of transfer of marketing intangibles to AE as the
brands and marketing intangibles are already owned by the AE. The issue is
that of addition in the value of marketing intangibles owned by the AE owing
to the services of development of brand and markets by the assessee for the AE
and that of compensation for rendering these services not provided
unilaterally by the assessee.
17
19\. We do not find any force in the aforesaid contentions of the ld. DR. As
mentioned elsewhere, the Revenue needs to establish on the basis of some
tangible material or evidence that there exists an international transaction
of provisions of brand building service between the assessee and the AE. We
find support from the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Honda Seil Power Products Ltd vs DCIT ITA No 346/2015.
20\. The Hon'ble Delhi Court in its recent decision in the case of CIT vs Mary
Kay Cosmetic Pvt Ltd (ITA No.1010/2018), too, dismissed the Revenue's appeal,
following the law laid down in its earlier decision (supra) and held as under:
> "We have examined the assessment order and do not find any good ground and
> reason given therein to treat advertisement and sales promotion expenses as
> a separate and independent international transaction and not to regard and
> treat the said activity as a function performed by the respondent-assessee,
> who was engaged in marketing and distribution. Further, while segregating /
> debundling and treating advertisement and sales promotion as an independent
> and separate international transaction, the assessing officer did not
> apportion the operating profit/ income as declared and accepted in respect
> of the international transactions."
18
> 21\. In our understanding of the facts and law, mere agreement or
> arrangement for allowing use of their brand name by the AE on products does
> not lead to an inference that there is an "action in concert" or the parties
> were acting together to incur higher expenditure on AMP in order to render a
> service of brand building. Such inference would be in the realm of
> assumption/surmise. In our considered opinion, for assumption of
> jurisdiction u/s 92 of the Act, the condition precedent is an international
> transaction has to exist in the first place. The TPO is not permitted to
> embark upon the bench marking analysis of allocating AMP expenses as
> attributed to the AE without there being an 'agreement' or 'arrangement' for
> incurring such AMP expenses.
22\. The aforesaid view that existence of an international transaction is a
sine qua non for invoking the transfer pricing provisions contained in Chapter
X of the Act, can be further supported by analysis of section 92(1) of the
Act, which seeks to benchmark income / expenditure arising from an
international transaction, having regard to the arm's length price. The income
/ expenditure must arise qua an international transaction, meaning thereby
that the (i) income has accrued to the Indian tax payer under an international
transaction entered into with an associated enterprise; or (ii) expenditure
payable by the Indian enterprise has accrued / arisen under an international
transaction with the foreign AE. The scheme  19 of Chapter X of the Act is not
to benchmark transactions between the Indian enterprise and unrelated third
parties in India, where there is no income arising to the Indian enterprise
from the foreign payee or there is no payment of expense by the Indian
enterprise to the associated enterprise. Conversely, transfer pricing
provisions enshrined in Chapter X of the Act do not seek to benchmark
transactions between two Indian enterprises.
23\. The Revenue further contends that the assessee is not an independent
manufacturer but is manufacturing for the benefit of the group entities and
his status is akin to that of a contract manufacturer. Hence AMP activity is
not for the sole benefit of the assessee but for the group as a whole.
24\. It is the say of the ld. DR that pricing regulations are to applied
keeping in mind the overall scheme of the tax payer's business arrangement.
The contention of the ld. DR can be summarized as under:
          a)      The assessee being part of a group is not
          completely     independent   in    its   pricing   policies
including price of raw material purchased from AE, payments in respect of
copyrights and patents payable to the AE. Even their product pricing is not
completely independent. Linder such circumstances, the benefits emanating from
the AMP function  20 cannot be enjoyed by the assessee alone. The assessee is
not an independent manufacturer who takes all the risks and enjoys all the
benefits of the functions performed by them.
b) The assessee is not engaged only in manufacture. It is also engaged in
distribution of goods by its own admission. In fact, the assessee has a dual
function of manufacturer and distributor. In any case, given its distribution
function, the assessee is covered by the judgement of Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in M/s Sony Ericsson.
c) The benefits to the AE from AMP function continue to be the same as in the
case of distributor like increase in sale of raw material, components and
spare parts, increase in dividend, and increase in copyright and patent
payments apart from creation/enhancement of Brand value. Therefore, the
argument advanced by the assessee would not have any bearing on the existence
of 'international transaction' just because it is engaged in manufacture has
not merit.
25\. Considering the aforesaid contention of the Revenue, we are of the
considered view that the Hon'ble High Court in the case of Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd [supra] held that the findings of the Hon'ble High Court with regard to
existence of international transaction was only with respect to the  21 case
of three limited risk distributors namely, Sony Ericsson, Canon and Reebok
etc., wherein the existence of international transaction was admitted and not
in dispute. The Court accordingly held that such findings in the case of Sony
Ericsson cannot be applied to the case of the manufacturers.
26\. The Hon'ble High Court held as under:
> "43. Secondly, the cases which were disposed of by the Sony Ericsson
> judgment, i.e. of the three Assessees Canon, Reebok and Sony Ericsson were
> all of distributors of products manufactured by foreign AEs. The said
> Assessees were themselves not manufacturers. In any event, none of them
> appeared to have questioned the existence of an international transaction
> involving the concerned foreign AE. It was also not disputed that the said
> international transaction of incurring of AMP expenses could be made subject
> matter of transfer pricing adjustment in terms of Section 92 of the Act.
> XXX
> 45\. Since none of the above issues that arise in the present appeals were
> contested by the Assessees who appeals were decided in the Sony Ericsson
> case, it cannot be said that the decision in Sony Ericsson, to the extent it
> affirms the existence of an international transaction on account of the
> incurring of the AMP expenses, decided that issue in the appeals of MSIL as
> well."
22
> 27\. At this stage, it would not be out of place to refer to para 6.38 of
> the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines which apply only to limited risk
> distributors and not to full risk manufacturers like the assessee. The said
> para from OECD TP Guidelines read as under:
> "6.38 Where the distributor actually bears the cost of its marketing
> activities (i.e. there is no arrangement for the owner to reimburse the
> expenditures), the issue is the extent to which the distributor is able to
> share in the potential benefits from those activities. In general, in arm's
> length transactions the ability of a party that is not the legal owner of a
> marketing intangible to obtain the future benefits of marketing activities
> that increase the value of that intangible will depend principally on the
> substance of the rights of that party. For example, a distributor may have
> the ability to obtain benefits from its investments in developing the value
> of a trademark from its turnover and market share where it has a long-term
> contract of sole distribution rights for the trademarked product. In such
> cases, the distributor's share of benefits should be determined based on
> what an independent distributor would obtain in comparable circumstances. In
> some cases, a distributor may bear extraordinary marketing expenditures
> beyond what an independent distributor with similar rights might incur for
> the benefit of its  23 own distribution activities. An independent
> distributor in such a case might obtain an additional return from the owner
> of the trademark, perhaps through a decrease in the purchase price of the
> product or a reduction in royalty rate."
> 28\. The Hon'ble High Court in the case of Sony Ericsson Mobile
> Communications India Pvt Ltd (supra) has further held that no transfer
> pricing adjustment in respect of AMP expenses can be made where the assessee
> (Indian entity) has economic ownership of the brand/logo/trademark in
> question, in the case of long term right of use of the same. This principle
> also squarely covers the present case. The assessee has a long term
> agreement for the use of the trademark 'LG' in India. This clearly evidences
> the fact that the economic benefit arising out of the alleged promotion of
> the AE's logo is being enjoyed by the assessee. There is a clear opportunity
> and reasonable anticipation for the assessee to benefit from the marketing
> activities undertaken by it. This is clearly evidenced by the significantly
> higher profits made by assessee compared to its industry peers and also the
> very sizeable year on year increase in its turnover. In view of the
> aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that the economic ownership of the
> trademark 'LG' rests with the assessee. The Hon'ble High Court in the case
> of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt Ltd (supra) disagreed with
> the finding of the  24 Special Bench that the concept of economic ownership
> is not recognized under the Act. The relevant observations in paras 151 to
> 154 of the judgement are reproduced hereunder:
> "151. Economic ownership of a trade name or trade mark is accepted in
> international taxation as one of the components or aspects for determining
> transfer pricing. Economic ownership would only arise in cases of long-term
> contracts and where there is no negative stipulation denying economic
> ownership. Economic ownership when pleaded can be accepted if it is proved
> by the assessed. The burden is on the assessed. It cannot be assumed. It
> would affect and have consequences, when there is transfer or termination of
> economic ownership of the brand or trademark.
> 152\. Determination whether the arrangement is long-term with economic
> ownership or short-term should be ordinarily based upon the conditions
> existing at the start of the arrangement and not whether the contract is
> subsequently renewed. However, it is open to the party, i.e. the assessed,
> to place evidence including affirmation from the brand owner AE that at the
> start of the arrangement it was accepted and agreed that the contract would
> be renewed.
> > 153\. Economic ownership of a brand is an intangible asset, just as legal
> ownership. Undifferentiated, economic ownership brand valuation is not done
> from moment to  25 moment but would be mandated and required if the assessed
> is deprived, denied or transfers economic ownership. This can happen upon
> termination of the distribution-cum- marketing agreement or when economic
> ownership gets transferred to a third party. Transfer Pricing valuation,
> therefore, would be mandated at that time. The international transaction
> could then be made a subject matter of transfer pricing and subjected to
> tax.
> 154\. Brand or trademark value is paid for, in case of sale of the brand or
> otherwise by way of merger or acquisition with third parties. .... .....
> .....
> Re-organisation, sale and transfer of a brand as a result of merger and
> acquisition or sale is not directly a subject matter of these appeals. As
> noted above, in a given case where the Indian AE claims economic ownership
> of the brand and is deprived or transfers the said economic ownership,
> consequences would flow and it may require transfer pricing assessment."
> (emphasis supplied)
29\. As held by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications (supra), if the Indian entity is the economic owner of
the brand and is incurring AMP expenses for the purpose of promotion of such
brand, benefit is only received by the Indian entity. It wa submitted that the
economic ownership of the brand rests with the assessee and accordingly, the
assessee cannot be expected to seek compensation for the expenditure  26
incurred on the asset economically owned by it. No Transfer Pricing adjustment
on account of AMP expenses would be warranted. The aforesaid test is fully
satisfied in the case of the assessee and the Transfer Pricing adjustment on
account of AMP expenses made by the TPO is liable to be deleted.
30\. The assessee being a full-fledged manufacturer, entire AMP expenditure is
incurred at its own discretion and for its own benefit for sale of LG products
in India. In the case of the appellant, the advertisements are aimed at
promoting the sales of the product sold under trademark 'LG' manufactured by
the assessee and not towards promoting the brand name of the AE. In such
circumstances, the alleged excess AMP expenditure does not result in an
international transaction and the assessee cannot be expected to seek
compensation for such expenses unilaterally incurred by it from the AE.
31\. The Revenue has strongly objected for the aggregated bench marking
analysis for the AMP. According to the Revenue, the assessee company has not
been able to demonstrate that there is any logic or rationale for aggregation
or that the transactions of advertisement expenditure and the other
transactions in the distribution activity are inter-dependent, the clubbing of
transactions cannot be allowed. According to the Revenue, bench marking of AMP
transaction is to be carried out using  27 segregated approach and for
determination of ALP of such transactions, Bright Line is used as the tool.
32\. This contention of the Revenue is no more good as BLT has been discarded
by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi as mentioned elsewhere. The Hon'ble High
Court of Delhi in the case of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt
Ltd in Tax Appeal NO. 16 of 2014 has held that if the Indian entity has
satisfied Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM), i.e., as long as the
operating margins of the Indian enterprise are higher than the operating
margins of comparable companies, no further separate compensation for AMP
expenses is warranted. The Hon'ble Court held as under:
> "101. However, once the Assessing Officer/TPO accepts and adopts TNM Method,
> but then chooses to treat a particular expenditure like AMP as a separate
> international transaction without bifurcation/segregation, it would as
> noticed above, lead to unusual and incongruous results as AMP expenses is
> the cost or expense and is not diverse. It is factored in the net profit of
> the inter-linked transaction. This would be also in consonance with Rule
> 10B(1)(e), which mandates only arriving at the net profit margin by
> comparing the profits and loss account of the tested party with the
> comparable. The TNM Method proceeds on the assumption that functions, assets
> and risk being broadly similar and once suitable adjustments have been made,
> all things get taken  28 into account and stand reconciled when computing
> the net profit margin. Once the comparables pass the functional analysis
> test and adjustments have been made, then the profit margin as declared when
> matches with the comparables would result in affirmation of the transfer
> price as the arm's length price. Then to make a comparison of a horizontal
> item without segregation would be impermissible."
> 33\. Considering the aforementioned findings of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
> High Court of Delhi In the case in hand, the operating profit margin of the
> assessee is at 5.01% in the manufacturing segment and 4.52% in the
> distribution segment and the same is higher than that of the comparable
> companies at 4.04% in the manufacturing segment and 4.46% in the
> distribution segment. TNMM has undisputedly been satisfied. Since the
> operating margins of the assessee are in excess of the selected comparable
> companies, no adjustment on account of AMP expenses is warranted.
34\. Considering the facts of the case in hand in totality, we are of the view
that the Revenue has failed to demonstrate by bringing tangible material
evidence on record to show that an international transaction does exist so far
as AMP expenditure is concerned. Therefore, we hold that the incurring of
expenditure in question does not give rise to any international transaction as
per judicial  29 discussion hereinabove and without prejudice to these
findings, since the operating margins of the assessee are in excess of the
selected comparable companies, no adjustment is warranted. Ground Nos. 3 to
3.34 of the assessee are allowed."
10\. Respectfully following the aforementioned findings of the co- ordinate
bench, Ground No. 4 is allowed.
11\. Ground No. 5 relates to TP adjustment of Rs. 41,87,87,946/- by holding
that Arm's Length rate for international transaction of payment of royalty at
3.5% as against royalty paid @ 5% by the assessee.
12\. An identical issue was considered and decided by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09 vide
Ground Nos. 4 to 4.4 of that appeal. The relevant findings of the co-ordinate
bench read as under:
> "39. We have carefully considered the underlying facts in issue. We find
> that an identical issue was considered by the coordinate bench in assessee's
> own case in A.Y 2007-08 in ITA No. 5140/DEL/2011. The relevant findings of
> the Tribunal read as under:
30
> 10.7 The next question is about the determination of such reduction in the
> rate of royalty. Both the sides fairly agreed that the issue of
> quantification of adjustment to be allowed on account of fixed term and
> perpetual license is a virgin issue inasmuch as there is no precedent
> available on this point. We find that the TPO determined comparable average
> rate of 3.5% of the companies having fixed term agreements. Considering the
> fact that the assessee had a perpetual license, he discounted the
> uncontrolled royalty rate by 2%, thereby calculating the arm's length
> royalty rate at 1.5%. The DRP computed average rate of royalty of three
> comparable companies at 4.5% and, thereafter, reduced 1% on account of
> limited period of license used by the comparables vis-a-vis the assessee
> using the perpetual license. 10.8. There can be no quarrel on the fact that,
> other things being equal, a landlord intending to have a tenant for a long-
> term may compromise some amount of rent, in comparison with a landlord
> finding a tenant requiring the premises for a short-term.
The rate of rent in a former case will be lower for a variety of reasons, such
as, not undergoing the process of finding a tenant every now and then, fear of
the property remaining vacant for some time after the exit of the first tenant
and incurring costs at the time of each let out. Difference between the rent
charged by the landlord or paid by the tenants in the afore discussed two
situations is nothing but a discount allowed to a tenant of long- term on the
available  31 market rate of rent. This analogy can be applied to the present
facts by considering the discount which a licensor with a perpetual license
may allow or the premium which a licensor with a fixed term license may
charge. It can be seen that the TPO downgraded 2% on this score and reduced
the unadjusted comparable rate of 3.5% to the adjusted 1.5%. To put it
differently, the TPO treated the premium charged by the comparable licensors
on account of fixed term licenses at 57% (2/ 3.5*100), or in other words, the
discount at such rate to the prevalent market rate on account of perpetual
license. However, the DRP treated such discount for perpetual license at 22%
(1/4.5*100). Considering the entirety of the facts and circumstances of the
instant case, we find that the rate of premium on the license with fixed term
at 22% is on a higher side. In our considered opinion, the rate of such
premium should be restricted to 10% of the average rate of royalty of the
comparable cases. 10.9. It has been held above that the DRP rightly considered
three companies as comparable, whose average rate of unadjusted royalty comes
at 4.5% within the meaning of sub- clause (i) of rule 10B(1)(a). When rate is
discounted with 10% under sub-clause (ii), resulting into a deduction of 0.45%
(10% of 4.5), the arm's length rate of royalty as per sub- clause (iii) of
rule 10B(1)(a) comes to 4.05% (4.5-0.45). It is this rate, which is directed
to be applied as arm's length rate of royalty payment. V. Rule of
Consistency."  32
> 40\. Respectfully following the findings of the co- ordinate bench, we
> direct the TPO to determine the Arm's Length royalty @ 4.05%. Ground Nos. 4
> to 4.4 are partly allowed."
> 13\. Since the underlying facts of the year under consideration are similar
> to the facts of assessment year 2008-09, respectfully following the findings
> of the co-ordinate bench, we direct the TPO to determine the Arm's length
> royalty @ 4.05%. Ground No. 5 is partly allowed.
14\. Ground No. 6 relates to TP adjustment in respect of international
transaction of allocation of Asia Regional Head Quarters expenses of Rs.
23,14,22,194/- allegedly holding that no specific services were received by
the assessee in consideration for such payments.
15\. An identical issue was considered and decided by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09 vide
Ground Nos. 5 to 5.5 of that appeal. The relevant findings of the co-ordinate
bench read as under:  33 "47. In our considered opinion, for the purpose of
determination of ALP of intra group services, the following issues have to be
taken into consideration:
     i)     Whether the services were required?
     ii)    Whether the services were rendered?
    iii)    Whether the services benefitted the assessee?
iv) Whether the price paid for such services is at arm's length?
48\. We find that the lower authorities have not disputed the factum of
rendering of services but have held that the services rendered by RHQ are
duplicative and hence were not required by the assessee. Further, the Revenue
has also alleged that these were share holder services.
49\. In our humble opinion, it is the prerogative of the assessee to decide as
to whether or not the services are required. Documentary evidences brought on
record show that significant services were rendered by RHQ benefitting the
assessee to name a few such services, brand analysis, product analysis, market
analysis, etc. Further, we find that the RHQ engages third party renowned
consultants, such as, Mckinsey & Co to conduct market research and prepare
reports. RHQ also conducts various training courses from time to time which
are conducted with a view of imparting soft skills to the employees of the
assessee company and for this purpose, executives from the RHQ visit the
assessee company.  34
50\. In so far as the allegation that these are share holder services, we do
not find any merit in this argument of the Revenue. Services are provided by
LG Electronics Singapore Pte Ltd, which is not a shareholder of the assessee
company and was created to provide managerial support services to various
entities in the region, in the form of undertaking market research, market
performance analysis, conducting consumer interviews engaging the services of
third party consultants for undertaking market/industry analysis, provision of
supply chain management services, provision of after sale services etc. and
such activities cannot be termed as share holder activity.
51\. We find that the assessee engaged a third party consultant to determine
the arm's length price of the services provided by the RHQ. The consultant
determined ALP at Rs. 6,521/- per hour as against the comparable uncontrolled
price of Rs. 11,670/- per hour. Since the hourly rate charged by RHQ is lower
than comparable hourly rate of third parties transaction of regional head
quarter charges meets the arm's length test.
52\. The Revenue has made the adjustment holding that the assessee was not
required to incur such expenditure which are duplicative in nature. In our
considered view, the assessee is free to conduct business in the manner that
assessee deems fit and the commercial or business expediency  35 of incurring
any expenditure has to be seen from the assessee's point of view.
53\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs Reebok India Co Ltd
ITA No 213/2014, while deleting transfer pricing adjustment made by the TPO on
the basis of similar reasoning held as under:
> "183. On the question whether the royalty should have been paid or not, we
> are in agreement with the finding of the Tribunal that question of payment
> of royalty cannot be determined on the basis of profitability or earnings of
> the assessed, once it is accepted that know-how and technical information
> was provided. It is not alleged or the case of the Revenue that the
> technology or know-how was hopeless and useless. The finding of the
> Assessing Officer/TPO, that the assessee had not derived any commercial
> benefit as technology and know-how had not resulted in any substantial
> profit increase, has been rightly rejected as totally unsustainable.
> Profitability of the assessed could have been lower or varied due to various
> reasons and lower profitability in one or more years cannot lead to the
> conclusion that no benefits were derived or technology was unproductive. The
> justification given by the assessee for lower profits on account of bad
> debts, high rent, increase in legal cost stand highlighted and accepted by
> the Tribunal. 184. Transfer pricing provisions, as noted above, recognise
> separate entity principle. Therefore, as a sequitur, it follows that the AE
> is a separate entity and when it avails and secures advantage of technical
> 36 know-how, it should pay arm's length price for the right to use. The
> arm's length price would be the fair market price of the technical know-how,
> which is licensed.
> ****** ****** ******
> 185\. Royalty payable for availing the right to use would depend upon
> corresponding price, which would have been paid by an independent or
> unrelated enterprise. This is judged by applying comparables. TPO has not
> rejected the quantum of royalty on the said principle. The reasoning given
> by the TPO is not only erroneous for the reasons stated above, but is also
> contrary to the Rules. Depending upon the method selected, net profit or
> gross profit of the assessed has to be compared with profit margins of
> related enterprise. The formula prescribed under the Rules does not accept
> the ratiocination adopted and applied by the TPO.
> 54\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs Lumax Industries
> Limited ITA No 102/2014 held that the Transfer Pricing provisions do not
> authorize disallowance of any expenditure on the basis that it was not
> necessary for the assessee to incur the expenditure. The Hon'ble Court held
> as under:
> "16. On the question of addition made by the AO on account of ALP for the
> payment of royalty, learned counsel for the Assessee has rightly referred to
> the decision in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Sony Ericsson Mobile
> Communication (2015) 374 ITR 118 where the determination of the ALP of the
> royalty  37 paid as Nil was not approved. The Court's attention has also
> been drawn to the decision in Commissioner of Income Tax v. EKL Appliances
> Limited (2012) 345 ITR 241 wherein it was held that Rule 10B (1) (a) did not
> authorize disallowance of any expenditure on the ground that it was not
> necessary for the Assessee to have incurred such expense. It was observed
> that though the quantum of expenditure could be examined, the entire
> expenditure could not be disallowed on the ground that it was not
> necessary."
> 55\. Further, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs Cushman and
> Wakefield (India) Pvt Ltd. ITA 475 of 2012 has held that the authority of
> the TPO is to conduct a TP analysis to determine the ALP and not to
> determine whether the tax payer derives a benefit from the service. The
> Hon'ble Delhi High Court has opined that the determination of benefit to the
> tax payer is in the domain of the AO. The Hon'ble High Court held as
> follows:
> "34. The Court first notes that the authority of the TPO is to conduct a
> transfer pricing analysis to determine the ALP and not to determine whether
> there is a service or not from which the assessee benefits. That aspect of
> the exercise is left to the AO. This distinction was made clear by the ITAT
> in Dresser-Rand India Pvt. Ltd. v. Additional Commissioner of Income Tax,
> 2012 (13) ITR (Trib) 422.
38
> > 35\. The TPO's Report is, subsequent to the Finance Act, 2007, binding on
> the AO. Thus, it becomes all the more important to clarify the extent of the
> TPO's authority in this case, which is to determining the ALP for
> international transactions referred to him or her by the AO, rather than
> determining whether such services exist or benefits have accrued. That
> exercise - of factual verification is retained by the AO under Section 37 in
> this case. Indeed, this is not to say that the TPO cannot - after a
> consideration of the facts - state that the ALP is 'nil' given that an
> independent entity in a comparable transaction would not pay any amount.
> However, this is different from the TPO stating that the assessee did not
> benefit from these services, which amounts to disallowing expenditure. That
> decision is outside the authority of the TPO...."
> 56\. Considering this issue from another angle in the light of the decision
> of the Hon'ble Delhi high Court in the case of CIT vs Lumax Industries
> Limited ITA No 102/2014 we are of the opinion that once the assessee has
> satisfied the TNMM method i.e. the operating margins of the assessee are
> higher than those of the comparable companies [as mentioned elsewhere], no
> separate adjustment is warranted.
57\. Same view was taken by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Magneti Marelli Powertrain India Pvt. Ltd. ITA No 350/2014 wherein the Hon'ble
High Court held as under:  39
> "17. As far as the second question is concerned, the TPO accepted TNMM
> applied by the assessee, as the most appropriate method in respect of all
> the international transactions including payment of royalty. The TPO,
> however, disputed application of TNMM as the most appropriate method for the
> payment of technical assistance fee of 38,58,80,000 only for which
> Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method was sought to be applied. Here,
> this court concurs with the assessee that having accepted the TNMM as the
> most appropriate, it was not open to the TPO to subject only one element,
> i.e payment of technical assistance fee, to an entirely different (CUP)
> method. The adoption of a method as the most appropriate one assures the
> applicability of one standard or criteria to judge an international
> transaction by. Each method is a package in itself, as it were, containing
> the necessary elements that are to be used as filters to judge the soundness
> of the international transaction in an ALP fixing exercise. If this were to
> be disturbed, the end result would be distorted and within one ALP
> determination for a year, two or even five methods can be adopted. This
> would spell chaos and be detrimental to the interests of both the assessee
> and the revenue. The second question is, therefore, answered in favour of
> the assessee; the TNMM had to be applied by the TPO/AO in respect of the
> technical fee payment too."
58\. Considering the facts in totality in the light of the judicial decisions
discussed hereinabove, the adjustment computed by the TPO/DRP on account of
allocation of RHQ  40 expenses is uncalled for and deserves to be deleted.
Ground Nos. 5 to 5.5 are allowed.
16\. Respectfully following the findings of the co-ordinate bench, Ground no.
6 is allowed.
17\. Ground No. 7 relates to TP adjustment of Rs. 3,52,34,484/- in respect of
international transaction of payment of export commission.
18\. In addition to this, in Ground No. 11, the assessee has objected to the
disallowance of export commission of Rs. 10,43,12,616/- which includes TP
adjustment of Rs. 3,52,34,484/-.
19\. The assessee has filed an application u/r 29 of the ITAT Rules for
admission of additional evidence in support of payment of export commission to
AEs. Similar application was filed in assessment year 2008-09 and the
Tribunal, after considering the same, has remanded the matter to the file of
the Assessing Officer to decide the issue after considering the additional
evidence placed on record by the assessee. Relevant findings of the co-
ordinate bench read as under:  41
> "91. It is not in dispute that in A.Y 2007-08 this issue was decided against
> the assessee by the Tribunal. The assessee has filed application u/r 29 of
> the ITAT Rules for admission of additional evidence in support of payment of
> export commission to its AE. In our considered opinion, such additional
> evidences need to be verified before deciding this issue. We, accordingly,
> restore this matter to the file of the Assessing Officer. The assessee is
> directed to furnish relevant documentary evidences and the Assessing Officer
> is directed to consider the same and decide the same afresh after giving
> reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee. Ground No. 11 is
> treated as allowed for statistical purposes."
> 20\. Respectfully following the findings of the co-ordinate bench, we
> restore this matter to the file of the Assessing Officer. The Assessing
> Officer is directed to consider the additional evidences and decide the same
> afresh after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee.
> Ground Nos. 7 and 11 are allowed for statistical purposes.
21\. Ground No. 8 relates to TP adjustment of Rs. 20,01,35,879/- in respect of
service warrantee charges received by the assessee by applying margin of 26%
on such reimbursement.  42
22\. Warranty service charges received from AE, comprise of the following:
> \- Provision of warranty services Rs. 6,07,16,151
> \- Reimbursement of in-warranty expenses Rs.43.54.24.268
> \- Service warranty charges Rs.27,36,12,964 Total Rs.76,97,53,383
23\. The nature of these expenses are explained as follows:
(I) Provision of warranty services:
24\. With respect to the mobile phones supplied by LGEK in India, independent
authorized service centers in India provide warranty and repair services. The
assessee being in Indi incurred certain expenditure towards employee and other
administrative costs while rendering after sales service during in-warranty
period because the mobile [hnes are supplied by LGEK and hence in warrantee
period services cannot be provided from Korea. For such services, LGEK
compensates the assessee for provision of such services.
(II) Reimbursement of in-warranty (spare parts) expenses:
25\. As mentioned above, the products are supplied from LG Korea and the
assessee being in India, provides 'in-warranty' period. Such  43 service
spares are imported by the appellant, and it merely facilitate supply of
service spares on behalf of LGEK and LG Nortel and does not perform any
significant function. For such services, the assessee gets reimbursed from its
AEs for the cost of service spares supplied during 'in-warranty' period on a
cost to cost basis. (III) Service Warranty Charges
26\. The assessee imports Completely Built Units ('CBUs') from the associated
enterprises which are sold to customers in India for which the assessee
provides warrantee to end customers. Since the CBU are imported from its AEs,
there is a 12 months back to back warranty. The warranty claim/services are
performed by third party /independent service providers in India. Such service
providers charge the assessee for servicing the warranty claims and the
appellant in terms of the arrangement thereafter charges its associated
enterprises and gets reimbursement of the same in respect of such warrantee
cost/expenses paid to paid to third party service providers. With respect to
certain service spares, the same are imported from its associated enterprises
which are supplied to authorized service providers. In respect of such
imports, the associated enterprises reimburses the assessee on actual cost
basis.  44
27\. The TPO, however, held that the assessee is providing a service to the
associated enterprises by servicing the warranty claims and ought to have
earned a mark up on cost incurred for provision of such services. The TPO,
accordingly, selected the following companies engaged in provision of business
support services for calculating the mark up:
               S No.          Name of the company             OP/TC
                 1.     IDC India Limited                     14.95%
                 2.     Priya Internet (Seg)                  20.17%
                 3.     APITCO                                37.70%
                 4.     TSR Darashaw                          26.98%
                 5.     Global Procurement Consultants        35.89%
                 6.     WAPCO                                 25.57%
                                 Average                       26%
    28.   The    TPO,    accordingly,   determined   an   adjustment of   Rs
20,01,35,879/- by applying the mark up of 26%.
29\. Before us, the ld. counsel for the assessee stated that the assessee acts
as a principal for sale of products to customers and not a service provider to
associated enterprise so as to warrant a mark up. It is the say of the ld.
counsel for the assessee that cost to cost reimbursement received by the
assessee is at Arm's length on the basis  45 of reciprocity and mutual
benefit. The ld. counsel for the assessee prayed for deletion of mark up.
30\. The ld. DR strongly supported the findings of the TPO/Assessing Officer.
31\. We have heard the rival submissions and have given thoughtful
consideration to the orders of the authorities below qua the issue. In our
considered opinion, the TPO has misconstrued the entire transaction wherein
the assessee sells the product imported from the associated enterprise, to the
customer in India on a principal to principal basis. Such sale of product to
customer entails an obligation on the assessee to provide service warranty for
one year of the sale. Such warranty is out-sourced to third party service
provider in India whose charges are incurred by the assessee as and when such
claims are received from the customers. In terms of the arrangement with the
associated enterprise, the assessee recovers the entire actual cost of
providing service warranty to the customer. In our considered opinion, the
assessee is not acting as an agent or a service provider for the associated
enterprise but is seeking reimbursement of the actual cost incurred by it.
46
32\. While making payment for third-party costs for services rendered by
independent service providers, the assessee does not perform any service,
discharge any function, or undertake any risk whatsoever and such payments are
for the services rendered by independent service providers. This is clearly
mentioned in the TP documentation also. In our view, such external costs being
in the nature of pass-through costs, are not to be recovered along with a
mark-up and a cost to cost reimbursement satisfies the arm's length principle.
33\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Johnson Matthey India Private
Limited vs. DCIT 380 ITR 43 has directed to exclude the pass through cost
while computing the operating margin. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held as
follows:
> "37. The exclusion of pass through costs from the denominator of total costs
> where the financial ratio of OP to TC is used is acknowledged in para 2.93
> and 2.94 of the OECD Guidelines. Para 2.93 states that the extent to which
> it would be acceptable "at arm's length to treat a significant portion of
> the tax payer's costs as pass-through costs to which no profit element is
> attributed (i.e. costs which are potentially excludable from the denominator
> of the net profit indicator)" would depend on the extent to which "an
> independent party in comparable circumstances would agree not to earn a
> mark-up on part of the costs it incurs." Para 2.94 of the OECD Guidelines
> further acknowledges that  47 "comparability issues may arise in practice
> where limited information is available on the breakdown of the costs of the
> comparables." This Court has in CIT v. EKL Appliances Ltd. (2012) 345 ITR
> 241 (Del) has noted that the OECD Guidelines have been recognized in our tax
> jurisprudence. What is however, is significant is that in the absence of any
> reliable comparable data, and in the absence of proper reasons, it would not
> be justified for the Revenue to simply reject a financial ratio adopted by
> the Assessee for computing the net profit margin by excluding a pass though
> cost from the TC in the denominator. The expression "any other relevant
> base" occurring in Rule 10 (1) (e) (i) of the Rules is wide enough to
> encompass a denominator that excludes pass through costs as long it is
> demonstrated to be at arm's length."
> 34\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Li & Fung India Pvt. Ltd.
> vs. CIT 361 ITR 85, held that for undertaking benchmarking analysis, it
> would not be appropriate to consider costs incurred by third party or
> unrelated enterprise to compute assessee's net profit margin. The relevant
> findings of the High Court read as under:
> "39. The TPO's determination enhanced LFIL's cost base for applying the
> operating profit over total cost margin. LFIL's compensation model is based
> on functions performed by it and the operating costs incurred by it and not
> on the cost of goods sourced from third party vendors in India. Allotting a
> margin of the value of goods sourced by third party customers from Indian
> exporters/vendors to compute the appellant's profit is unjustified. This
> Court is of opinion that to apply  48 the TNMM, the assessee's net profit
> margin realized from international transactions had to be calculated only
> with reference to cost incurred by it, and not by any other entity, either
> third party vendors or the AE. Textually, and within the bounds of the text
> must the AO/TPO operate, Rule 10B(1)(e) does not enable consideration or
> imputation of cost incurred by third parties or unrelated enterprises to
> compute the assessee's net profit margin for application of the TNMM. Rule
> 10B(1)(e) recognizes that "the net profit margin realized by the enterprise
> from an international transaction entered into with an associated enterprise
> is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets
> employed or to be employed by the enterprise ..."
> It thus contemplates a determination of ALP with reference to the relevant
> factors (cost, assets, sales etc.) of the enterprise in question, i.e. the
> assessee, as opposed to the AE or any third party. The textual mandate,
> thus, is unambiguously clear."
35\. Moreover, the operating margin of the assessee in the distribution
segment at 4.52% is higher than that of the comparable companies at 3.93% and
the after sale warrantee is closely linked with distribution function of the
assessee. Therefore, no adjustment on account of international transaction of
reimbursement of warranty claims is warranted on the facts of the case. Our
view is fortified by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of Sony  49 Ericsson Mobile Communications (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Court
held that Clubbing of closely linked transactions is permissible in
appropriate cases. The Hon'ble High Court further held that once the Revenue
accepts the TNMM as the most appropriate method, then it would be
inappropriate for the Revenue to treat a particular expenditure as a separate
international transaction.
36\. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Magneti Marelli Powertrain
India Pvt. Ltd. ITA No 350/2014 held as under:
> "17. As far as the second question is concerned, the TPO accepted TNMM
> applied by the assessee, as the most appropriate method in respect of all
> the international transactions including payment of royalty. The TPO,
> however, disputed application of TNMM as the most appropriate method for the
> payment of technical assistance fee of 38,58,80,000 only for which
> Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method was sought to be applied. Here,
> this court concurs with the assessee that having accepted the TNMM as the
> most appropriate, it was not open to the TPO to subject only one element,
> i.e payment of technical assistance fee, to an entirely different (CUP)
> method. The adoption of a method as the most appropriate one assures the
> applicability of one standard or criteria to judge an international
> transaction by.  50 Each method is a package in itself, as it were,
> containing the necessary elements that are to be used as filters to judge
> the soundness of the international transaction in an ALP fixing exercise. If
> this were to be disturbed, the end result would be distorted and within one
> ALP determination for a year, two or even five methods can be adopted. This
> would spell chaos and be detrimental to the interests of both the assessee
> and the revenue. The second question is, therefore, answered in favour of
> the assessee; the TNMM had to be applied by the TPO/AO in respect of the
> technical fee payment too."
37\. The SLP filed by the Revenue against the aforesaid decision of the
Hon'ble High Court was dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (Civil)
No 15244/2017.
38\. Further, we find that the aforesaid arrangement of receiving
reimbursement for warranty transaction on actual cost basis was accepted to be
at arm's length by the DRP in assessment year 2007-08 and by the TPO in
assessment year 2008-09.
39\. Considering the facts of the case in totality in the light of judicial
decisions discussed hereinabove, we do not find any merit in the  51 impugned
TP adjustment. We direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to delete the same. Ground
No. 8 is allowed.
40\. Ground No. 9 relates to addition of Rs. 48,52,89,709/- by treating sales
tax subsidy as taxable revenue receipt.
41\. An identical issue was considered and decided by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09 vide
Ground No. 8 of that appeal. The relevant findings of the co-ordinate bench
read as under:
> "78. We have given thoughtful consideration to the orders of the authorities
> below. We have also considered the orders of the coordinate bench in
> assessee's own case and the various judicial decisions relied upon by the
> ld. AR. In A.Y 2002-03, the coordinate bench in ITA No. 1404/DEL/2007 has
> held as under:
> > "9. We have heard both the parties and gone through the material available
> on record. In this case the assessee had collected sales tax as a part of
> dealers' price. At the year end the sales tax portion, which formed the part
> of dealers' price had been bifurcated and has been claimed as capital
> subsidy. We have also gone through the Notification No. 1179 dated  52
> 31.03.1995 issued by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh. The State Govt.
> has provided sales tax exemption with an objective to promote the
> development of certain industries which have been set up or undertaken
> modernisation, diversification, backward integration by way of fixed capital
> investment of Rs.50 crores or more. The exemption of from sales tax or
> benefit of reduced rate of tax is available to those units which have
> started production or have carried out expansion or modernisation or
> backward integration etc. between 1.12.1994 and 31.03.2000. Para 2 of the
> notification specifies that the exemption or reduction in the rate of sales
> tax including the additional tax would not be more than 5 per cent of sale
> of goods. In case where tax rate was more than 5 per cent including
> additional tax, the balance was to be paid by the unit. Para7 (2) of the
> notification provides for the exemption of sales tax to the extent of
> exemption or reduction in tax. Item (2) of the Schedule includes Greater
> Noida Industrial Development Area wherein exemption from sales tax to the
> extent of 200 per cent of capital investment has been provided. None of the
> clauses of the Notification authorises the assessee to collect the sales tax
> and retain the same with it. The exemption of sales tax was available from
> the date of first sale or the date within the period of six months from the
> date of production, whichever is earlier.  53
> The said notification also provided that the eligibility certificate to the
> assessee will be issued by the joint/additional director of concerned
> Development Authority and the same will be produced before the concerned
> assessing officer. The Addl. Director Industries, Greater Noida Industrial
> Development Authority, vide letter No. 1344 dated 23/06/1999 issued
> eligibility certificate to the assessee. As per this certificate fixed
> capital investment is of Rs.51,57,95,446/-. The date of commencement of
> production is 9/03/1998 and the first sale was affected on 27th March, 1998.
> The assessee applied for exemption from trade tax [sales tax] vide
> application dated 10/09/1998. The exemption from trade tax [sales tax] was
> provided from 27th March, 1998 to 26th March, 2013 for a period of 15 years
> or till the time the exemption of sales tax was availed of to the extent of
> 200 per cent of fixed capital investment i.e. Rs.1,02,75,90,892/- whichever
> was earlier. This certificate also provided the items i.e. Colour TV,
> Washing machine and Air-conditioners on which exemption from sales tax was
> provided. Another certificate was issued on 27th September, 2000 vide letter
> No. 1519 in respect of printed circuit voice for CTV number 8,12,000 and
> Micro-wave Oven 1,00,000.
In this certificate, the sales tax exemption in first three years has been
provided to the extent of 100 per cent, next three years 75 per cent, next two
54 years 50 per cent and next two years 25 per cent. In all exemption from
sales tax was provided for 10 years.
10\. Neither the certificates issued by Greater Noida Industrial Development
Authority nor the Notification issued by the State Govt. authorises the
assessee to collect sales tax from its customers. The assessee has been
exempted from collecting the sales tax from customers on the sales made with
effect from 27th March, 1998. In fact, the ld. counsel for the assessee made a
statement at the bar, during the course of hearing, that neither the
Notification has authorized the assessee to collect sales tax nor the assessee
had collected the sales tax as such. The assessee had included the element of
sales tax in the dealers' price as a sale price of the product. In the States
other than Uttar Pradesh, the sales tax so collected as a part of dealers'
price has been paid to respective State Governments, whereas in the case of
the assessee, since the assessee was not liable to pay sales tax, as exemption
has been provided to the extent of 200 per cent of fixed capital investment,
the sales tax element which is embedded in the sale price have been retained
by the assessee as excess sales consideration. At the year-end the assessee
has allocated the sales tax element from dealer's price and has claimed the
same as capital subsidy.  55
Therefore, the collection of dealers' price has been made in the ordinary
course of trading activities. When the assessee is not permitted to collect
the sales tax under the notification issued by the State Govt. the collection
of sales tax as a part of dealers' price is nothing but constitutes a trading
receipt........"
79\. In A.Y 2003-04, the coordinate bench in ITA No. 3729/DEL/2009 has held as
under:
> "In view of the above, Ld. Departmental Representative claimed that the
> issue is squarely covered in favour of the Revenue. However, ld. Counsel of
> the assessee submitted that the Tribunal has not considered the matter
> properly. He submitted that the appeal against the tribunal order is pending
> in the Hon'ble High Court of All. However, upon careful consideration, we
> find that there is no proper justification to deviate from the decision of
> the ITAT in assessee's own case. The appeal against the Tribunal order is
> still pending in Hon'ble High Court. Under the circumstances, the judicial
> propriety mandates that we adhere to the decision of the Tribunal in
> assessee's own case. Accordingly, respectfully following the precedent as
> above, we uphold the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax(A)."
56
> > 80\. We find that the assessee's appeal against the order of the Tribunal
> for A.Y 2002-03 is pending before the Hon'ble High Court. Judicial propriety
> mandates that we adhere to the decision of the coordinate bench in
> assessee's own case. Respectfully following the precedents [supra] we
> decline to interfere with the findings of the CIT(A). Ground No. 8 is
> accordingly dismissed.
> 42\. Respectfully following the precedent, we decline to interfere with the
> findings of the DRP. Ground No. 9 is accordingly dismissed.
43\. Ground No. 10 relates to disallowance of Rs. 97,71,71,875/- out of
aggregate royalty amounting to Rs. 1,39,59,59,821/- paid to LG Electronics,
Korea holding the same to be in the nature of capital expenditure.
44\. A similar issue was decided in favour of the assessee by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09 vide
Ground No. 10 of that appeal. The relevant findings of the co-ordinate bench
read as under:
> "88. We find that the Tribunal in assessee's own case for A.Y. 2007-08 has
> decided this issue in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.
> Respectfully following the findings of the coordinate bench, we direct the
> Assessing Officer to treat royalty  57 payment of Rs. 85.75 crores as
> revenue expenditure. Ground No. 10 is allowed."
> 45\. Respectfully following the precedent, we direct the Assessing
> Officer/TPO to delete the impugned disallowance. Ground No. 10 is allowed.
46\. Ground No. 12 relates to restricting the deduction claimed by the
assessee u/s 80JJAA of the Act.
47\. An identical issue was considered and decided by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case in ITA No. 6253/DEL/2012 for assessment year 2008-09 vide
Ground No. 12 of that appeal. The relevant findings of the co-ordinate bench
read as under:
> "96. We have carefully considered the orders of the authorities below qua
> the issue. There is no dispute that he assessee satisfies all the conditions
> for claiming deduction u/s 80JJAA of the Act. For our convenience, section
> 80JJAA reads as under:
"80JJAA. (1) Where the gross total income of an assessee, being an Indian
company, includes any profits and gains derived from any industrial
undertaking engaged in the  58 manufacture or production of article or thing,
there shall, subject to the conditions specified in sub-section (2), be
allowed a deduction of an amount equal to thirty per cent of additional wages
paid to the new regular workmen employed by the assessee in the previous year
for three assessment years including the assessment year relevant to the
previous year in which such employment is provided.
(2) No deduction under sub-section (1) shall be allowed--
(a) if the business is formed by splitting up or the reconstruction of an
existing business.
"Provided further that where an employee is employed during the previous year
for a period of less than two hundred and forty days or one hundred and fifty
days, as the case may be, but is employed for a period of two hundred and
forty days or one hundred and fifty days, as the case may be, in the
immediately succeeding year, he shall be deemed to have been employed in the
succeeding year and the provisions of this section shall apply accordingly;".
97\. The claim of the assessee is that the workmen who joined in the preceding
year in which such workmen worked for less than 300 days should be considered
provided that the period of employment of such workmen is equal to or more
than 300 days in the relevant previous year. What the assessee contends is
that new workmen, who did not fall in the category of "regular workmen", on
account of  59 employment being for less than 300 days in the year of
appointment, should be considered as "regular workmen" in the subsequent year,
provided such workmen continue to be employed with the company and the total
period of their employment is equal to or more than 300 days in the subsequent
year. Thought this contention of the assessee has been take care of by the
second proviso, but the same has been given effect from 1.4.2019.
98\. If the effect of the second proviso is given retrospectively, then the
assessee's claim of deduction is allowable. Memorandum explaining provisions
of Finance Bill 2018 states that the amendment is intended to rationalize the
deduction of 30% of additional wages "by allowing the benefit for a new
employee who is employed for less than the minimum period during the first
year but continues to remain employed for the minimum period in subsequent
year.
99\. In our considered opinion, this amendment i.e. second proviso is
clarifactory in nature and is intended to remove the anomaly so as to advance
legislative intention of providing incentive to new worker for more than 300
days and must be given retrospective effect. For this proposition, we draw
support from the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Allied
Motors Pvt. Ltd Vs. CIT 224 ITR 677 [SC]. The relevant finding of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reads as under:
60
"In the case of Goodyear India Ltd. v. State of Haryana and Anr. (188 ITR 402)
this court said that he rule of reasonable construction must be applied while
construing a statute. Literal construction should be avoided if it defeats the
manifest object and purpose of the Act. Therefore, in the well known words of
Judge learned Hand, one cannot make a fortress out of the dictionary; and
should remember that statutes have some purpose and object to accomplish whose
sympathetic and imaginative discovery is the surest guide to their meaning. In
the case of R.B. Jodha Mal Kuthiala v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab,
Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh (82 ITR
570), this Court said that one should apply the rule of reasonable
interpretation. A proviso which is inserted to remedy unintended consequences
and to made the provision workable, a proviso which supplies an obvious
omission in the section and is required to be read into the section to give
the section a reasonable interpretation, requires to be treated as
retrospective in operation so that a reasonable interpretation can be given to
the section as a whole. This view has been accepted by a number of High Court.
In the case of Commissioner of Income-Tax v. Chandulal Venichand ([1994] 209
ITR 7), the Gujarat High Court has held that he first proviso to section 43B
is retrospective and sales-tax for the last quarter paid before the filing of
the return for the assessment year is deductable. This decision deals with
assessment year 1984-85. The Calcutta High Court in the case of Commissioner
of Income-tax v. Sri Jagannath Steel Corporation ([1991] 191 ITR 676), has
taken a similar view holding that the statutory liability for sales-tax
actually discharge after the expiry of accounting year in compliance with the
61 relevant stature is entitled to deduction under Section 43B. The High Court
has held the amendment to be clarificatory and, therefore, retrospective. The
Gujarat High Court in the above case held the amendment to be curative and
explanatory and hence retrospective. The Patna High Court has also held the
amendment inserting the first proviso to be explanatory in the case of
Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores v. union of India and Ors. ([1991] 189 ITR
70.), It was held that amendment inserting first proviso to be retrospective.
The special leave petition from this decision of the Patna High Court was
dismissed. The view of the Delhi High Court, therefore, that the first proviso
to section 43B will be available only prospectively does not appear to be
correct. As observed by G.P. Singh in his Principles of statutory
Interpretation, 4th Edn. Page 291, "It is well settled that if a statute
curative or merely declaratory of the previous law retrospective operation is
generally intended." In fact the amendment would not serve its object in such
a situation unless it is construed as retrospective. The view, therefore,
taken by the Delhi High Court cannot be sustained."
100\. Similar view was taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT
Vs. Alom Extrusions Ltd 319 ITR 306 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held
that where a proviso in section is inserted to remedy unintended consequences
to make section workable the proviso which supplies obvious omission therein
in required to be read retrospectively in operation particularly to give
effect to section as a whole.  62
101\. Same view was followed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT
Vs. Kolkata Export Company 404 ITR 654.
102\. Respectfully following the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
[supra] we direct the Assessing Officer to allow claim of deduction u/s 80JJAA
of the Act as claimed by the assessee."
48\. Ground Nos. 13 and 14 relate to charging of interest u/s 234B, 234C and
234D of the Act.
49\. Levy of interest is mandatory, though consequential to our decision. The
Assessing Officer is directed to levy interest as per the provisions of the
law. Interest u/s 234C to be charged on the returned income.
50\. Ground Nos. 15 and 16 relate to error in granting benefit of advance tax
/ self assessment tax/TDS credited.
51\. We find that there is some error in granting tax credit to the assessee
in respect of advance tax, self assessment tax and TDS. We direct the
Assessing Officer to give credit to the assessee after  63 verifying the tax
challan /TDS certificates. Ground Nos. 15 and 16 are allowed for statistical
purposes.
52\. Ground No. 17 is premature and dismissed as such.
53\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee in ITA No. 953/DEL/2014 is
partly allowed.
The order is pronounced in the open court on 15.02.2019.
                Sd/-                                           Sd/-
          [SUCHITRA KAMBLE]                           [N.K. BILLAIYA]
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                          ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated:    15th February, 2019
    VL/
    Copy   forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(A)
    5.     DR
                                                             Asst. Registrar,
                                                            ITAT, New Delhi
                                 64
    Date of dictation
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
    The date on which file goes to the
    Assistant Registrar for signature on the
    order
    Date of dispatch of the Order
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
                                       ORDER
PER N. K. BILLAIYA, AM:
This appeal by the assessee is preferred against the order dated 06.02.20145
framed u/s 144C r.w.s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Act' for short] pertaining to AY 2009-10.  2
2\. Ground Nos. 1 to 3 are general in nature and need no adjudication.
3\. Ground No. 4 relates to Transfer Pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.
5,37,59,29,670/- in relation to Advertisement, Marketing and Sales Promotion
Expenses [AMP] incurred by the assessee.
4\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee, during the
relevant previous year, incurred following expenditure on Advertisement,
Marketing and Sales Promotion expenses ('AMP expenses') aggregating to Rs.
851,84,13,441/-:
> Sl Particulars Amount (Rs) No.
             1      Multi              Product          19,48,82,269
                    Advertisement
             2      Product Advertisement              152,43,41,881
             3      Sponsorship                          5,49,61,260
             4      Point of Sales Activity            139,54,95,848
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
                                       ORDER
PER N. K. BILLAIYA, AM:
This appeal by the assessee is preferred against the order dated 06.02.20145
framed u/s 144C r.w.s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Act' for short] pertaining to AY 2009-10.  2
2\. Ground Nos. 1 to 3 are general in nature and need no adjudication.
3\. Ground No. 4 relates to Transfer Pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.
5,37,59,29,670/- in relation to Advertisement, Marketing and Sales Promotion
Expenses [AMP] incurred by the assessee.
4\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee, during the
relevant previous year, incurred following expenditure on Advertisement,
Marketing and Sales Promotion expenses ('AMP expenses') aggregating to Rs.
851,84,13,441/-:
> Sl Particulars Amount (Rs) No.
             1      Multi              Product          19,48,82,269
                    Advertisement
             2      Product Advertisement              152,43,41,881
             3      Sponsorship                          5,49,61,260
             4      Point of Sales Activity            139,54,95,848
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
                                       ORDER
PER N. K. BILLAIYA, AM:
This appeal by the assessee is preferred against the order dated 06.02.20145
framed u/s 144C r.w.s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Act' for short] pertaining to AY 2009-10.  2
2\. Ground Nos. 1 to 3 are general in nature and need no adjudication.
3\. Ground No. 4 relates to Transfer Pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.
5,37,59,29,670/- in relation to Advertisement, Marketing and Sales Promotion
Expenses [AMP] incurred by the assessee.
4\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee, during the
relevant previous year, incurred following expenditure on Advertisement,
Marketing and Sales Promotion expenses ('AMP expenses') aggregating to Rs.
851,84,13,441/-:
> Sl Particulars Amount (Rs) No.
             1      Multi              Product          19,48,82,269
                    Advertisement
             2      Product Advertisement              152,43,41,881
             3      Sponsorship                          5,49,61,260
             4      Point of Sales Activity            139,54,95,848
             5      Monthly scheme                     353,11,65,707
             6      Distributor discount                 6,82,78,903
             7      Dealer promotion                    21,02,84,392
             8      LG Shoppe margin                     1,46,10,627
                                           3
           Sl
                            Particulars              Amount (Rs)
           No.
             9      0% Finance Scheme                   13,61,64,216
             10     Tie Ups       (Quantitative         11,02,03,965
                    Targets)
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
                         Date of Pronouncement        : 15.02.2019
                                       ORDER
PER N. K. BILLAIYA, AM:
This appeal by the assessee is preferred against the order dated 06.02.20145
framed u/s 144C r.w.s 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred
to as 'the Act' for short] pertaining to AY 2009-10.  2
2\. Ground Nos. 1 to 3 are general in nature and need no adjudication.
3\. Ground No. 4 relates to Transfer Pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.
5,37,59,29,670/- in relation to Advertisement, Marketing and Sales Promotion
Expenses [AMP] incurred by the assessee.
4\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that the assessee, during the
relevant previous year, incurred following expenditure on Advertisement,
Marketing and Sales Promotion expenses ('AMP expenses') aggregating to Rs.
851,84,13,441/-:
> Sl Particulars Amount (Rs) No.
             1      Multi              Product          19,48,82,269
                    Advertisement
             2      Product Advertisement              152,43,41,881
             3      Sponsorship                          5,49,61,260
             4      Point of Sales Activity            139,54,95,848
             5      Monthly scheme                     353,11,65,707
             6      Distributor discount                 6,82,78,903
             7      Dealer promotion                    21,02,84,392
             8      LG Shoppe margin                     1,46,10,627
                                           3
           Sl
                            Particulars              Amount (Rs)
           No.
             9      0% Finance Scheme                   13,61,64,216
             10     Tie Ups       (Quantitative         11,02,03,965
                    Targets)
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the dictating Member
    Date on which the typed draft is placed
    before the Other member
    Date on which the approved draft comes
    to the Sr.PS/PS
    Date on which the fair order is placed
    before the Dictating Member for
    Pronouncement
    Date on which the fair order comes back
    to the Sr. PS/ PS
    Date on which the final order is uploaded
    on the website of ITAT
    Date on which the file goes to the Bench
    Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
