Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Mumbai
National Stock Exchange Of India ... vs Ddit (It) Rg 4(2), Mumbai on 18 May,
2017
                 IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                            "L" BENCH, MUMBAI
          BEFORE SHRI SHAMIM YAHYA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND
                   SHRI RAVISH SOOD, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                          ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
                        (Assessment Year: 2008-09)
    National Stock Exchange of India Ltd,
    C-1, Block G Exchange Plaza,
    Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),                        ................ Appellant
    Mumbai 400051
    PAN AAACN1797L
                                        v/s
    DDIT (IT) RG 4(2)                                    ................ Respondent
    Mumbai
                   Assessee by :      Shri. Arvind Sonde
                   Revenue by :       Shri. Jasbir Chouhan
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
                                  ORDER
PER: SHAMIM YAHYA This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of Ld.
CIT-A dated 30.08.2011 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09.
2\. The grounds of appeal read as under:
> 1.(a) on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the appellant was liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 1961 on payment made to M/s. Minitab Inc., USA for
> acquisition of software by treating the same as 'royalty' chargeable to tax
> in terms of sections 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the reasons
> assigned for doing so are wrong and contrary to the facts and circumstances
> of the case, provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and Rules made there under.
> (b) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the payments made to M/s. Minitab Inc. (USA) for
> the purchase of computer software does not amount to business receipts in
> terms of Article 7 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements between India and
> USA.
> The appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter, modify and/or delete any of
> the above grounds of appeal on or before the date of hearing.
3\. The assessee for financial year 2007-08 has procured a software product on
which Minitab Inc. of USA has a copyright. No TDS was deducted by the
appellant in terms of Article 7 of the DTAA between India and USA.
Subsequently a notice u/s. 201(1) was issued for non deduction of TDS u/s.
195(1). It was explained to the Ld. A.O that M/s. Minitab Inc. is a company
resident in USA and does not have any PE in India. Therefore, provisions of
the DTAA between India and USA would be available to M/s. Minitab Inc, since,
section 90(2) provides that the provisions of the Act would apply only if they
are more beneficial to M/s. Minitab Inc. The Ld. AO rejected the claim of the
assessee by holding that the assessee was getting only license to use the
software and accordingly held  2 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 that payment made for the licence to use software amounts to
royalty within the meaning of section 9(1)(iv). The Ld. AO also held that
software can be termed a secret formula or process. Thus the Ld. AO held that
the software is an intellectual property and falls in the category of
copyrights, patents, designs, trademarks, formula, process,
commercial/scientific knowledge and therefore. The A.O thereafter referred to
definition of royalty in Article 12(3) of the Indo-USA DTAA and held that
payment for the license of software would also amount to royalty within the
provisions of said DTAA. Hence the Ld. A.O held that the assessee was liable
to deduct TDS u/s. 195 to the extent of Rs.43,551/- @(10.56%) on payment made
to acquire software of Rs.4,12,413/-.
4\. Upon assessee's appeal Ld. CIT-A elaborately considered the issue. He
referred to the various decisions including that from Federal Court of
Australia. He concluded as under:
> "In a recent judgment dated 12th April, 2011, Federal Court of Australia in
> case of International Business Machines Corporation v. Commissioner of
> Taxation [2011] FCA 335, has in respect of Australia USA DTAA had held that
> the full amount of payments made by IBM Australia to parent IBM is royalty.
> The definition of royalty in Australia-
USA DTAA is almost similar to the definition of royalty in DTAA between India-
USA and includes consideration for  3 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd,
ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 the use of right to use of any specified IP right or
other like property or right. The clause 2(iii) of SLA includes the rights to
use IBM programs internally. It has been held in Para 43-45 of the order that
IBMA has the non-exclusive rights to do the matters set out in limbs (i) to
(v) of clause 2 and it is held as use of IP rights. The payments to the extent
they are granted by clause 2 fall within article 12(4)(a)(i) of the treaty
i.e. royalty. Therefore, legal position prevailing internationally on the
issue of taxability of remittance for software as royalty is evident from this
judgment notwithstanding its binding force in India. The present case is a
case of import of software and the consideration for the acquisition of
software is not indeterminate. Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi in the case of Gracemac
(supra) has distinguished the special Bench judgment in Motorola and has held
consideration for software acquisition is taxable as royalty. Hon'ble
Bangalore ITAT in the case of ING Vysya (supra) has also held that payment for
acquisition of software to use hi business is royalty. The facts of the
present case are widely different than the facts of the Motorola case and are
similar to the case of ING Vysya and Gracemac. Therefore, the judgment of
Special Bench in the case of Motorola is not applicable to the facts of the
present case for the detailed reasons discussed by Hon'ble Delhi IT AT and
also as above in this order. Therefore, following the judgment of the' ITAT
Delhi. in Gracemac and ITAT Bangalore in the case of ING Vysya, I hereby hold
that the remittance made by the assessee to USA to purchase a shrink wrapped
software  4 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 for
use in India under a non-exclusive and non- transferable license together with
the right to receive technical services, updates and maintenance of the
software, is taxable as royalty u/s. 9(1)(vi) of the Income- tax Act and also
under clause 12(3) of Indo-US DTAA. Therefore, the assessee was liable to do
TDS u/s. 195 of the Income-tax Act before remitting the money to the US
supplier. Hence, the A.O. is justified in treating the assessee as assessee in
default and raising the demand u/s. 201 (1) and 201(1A) of the Income Tax Act.
It may be mentioned that A.O in Para 6 of the assessment order has directed to
issue a demand notice and challan of Rs.64,020/- consisting of TDS u/s. 195
Rs.43,551/- and interest u/s.201(1A) Rs.20,469/- but the demand notice issued
and attached to the appeal memo is only for Rs.20,469/-. The AO is directed to
look into this aspect and take corrective measures if necessary and after
giving an opportunity to the assessee. Therefore grounds (a) to
(d) of the appeal are dismissed."
5\. Against the above order assessee is in appeal before us.
6\. We have heard both the counsel and perused the records.
7\. Ld. Counsel of the assessee submitted that the issue is squarely covered
in favour of the assessee by decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court. He further
referred to several other case laws of tribunal in favour of the assessee. The
submissions of the Ld.  5
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 Counsel of the
assessee which were also before the Ld. CIT-A in brief are as under:
"The appellant has purchased software for the internal use and is operational
software. The appellant was granted non-exclusive & perpetual license to use
the software enumerated in the agreement solely for internal operation.
The general terms and conditions and the restrictions under which the said
software is provided to the appellant, under the license agreement are as
follows:
> (i) The appellant has no right to use, copy, duplicate or display the
> software except as specifically provided in the agreement.
> (ii) The appellant cannot make more copies of the software than what is
> specified in the agreement.
> (iii) The appellant cannot provide access to the software to anyone, other
> than appellant's employees, contractors or consultants under a written
> contract by which all of them would be bound by the terms and conditions as
> are applicable to the appellant on purchase of software.
> (iv) The appellant cannot sell license, distribute, pledge, lease, rent or
> commercially share (including timeshare) the above software or any rights
> therein.
> 6
> National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
> (v) The appellant cannot modify, translate, reverse engineer, decrypt,
> decompile, disassemble, create directive works based on, or otherwise
> attempt to discover the above mentioned software source code or underlying
> ideas or algorithms.
There is no acquisition of copyright which remains the property with the
supplier. Generally there are two types of softwares namely, "Unbranded
software" which is specialised and exclusively custom made to cater to the
needs of individual clients, and "Branded software" or "off-the-shelf
software" which is standardised and marketed as such. When off-the-shelf
software is sold there is no doubt that the essence of such transaction is an
outright sale. The said software purchased by the appellant company is "off
the shelf" software/Shrink wrapped Software. The appellant company is
authorized to use only the software and cannot tamper/copy/sale the same to
any other person. The said software is delivered electronically by downloads
from the respective websites. Activation key/code is then e-mailed for
initialization. Software is then installed by putting the activation key/code
and prompt-based installation is done thereafter. Thus, the appellant company
does the installation by itself and no onsite support is provided by any of
the vendors. Source code is not made available to the appellant company and it
is provided with Activation code only for installation. Therefore, the
appellant company does not have any copyright to give it forward to  7
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 any other person
to use. The transfer of licensed software cannot be considered as 'Royalty'
within the meaning of Article 12(3) of the India-US Tax Treaty.
As per the provisions laid down in clause (v) of Explanation (2) to section
9(1)(vi), the consideration for transfer of all or any rights (including the
granting of a license), inter-alia, in respect of any copyright is treated as
royalty income. Thus, transfer of rights in respect of copyright is envisaged
and unless the transferee does not acquire and enjoy the same rights as that
of the transferor, it cannot be said that there is any such transfer as
envisaged in clause
(v) of Explanation (2) to section 9(1)(vi). In the instant case non- exclusive
and non-transferable license has been granted to the appellant. As licensee,
the appellant is allowed to use the software only for its own business without
any liberty to loan, rent, sell, sub- license or transfer the said software or
any rights therein. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is any transfer of
all or any rights in the software purchased by the appellant. The definition
of the term "Royalty" under the Indo-USA D.T.A.A. is as under:
The term "Royalties" as used in this Article 12(3) means:  8
> National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 "a) Payments of
> any kind received as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any
> copyright of a literary, artistic to use, any copyright of a literacy,
> artistic or scientific work, including cinematograph, films or work on
> films, tapes or other means of reproduction for use in connection with radio
> or television broadcasting, any patent, trademark, design or model, plan,
> secret formula or process or for information concerning industrial,
> commercial or scientific experience, including gains derived from the
> alienation of any such rights or properly which are contingent on the
> productivity, or use or disposition thereof, and
> (b) Payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the
> right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, other than
> payments derived by an enterprise described in Para 1 or article 8 (Shipping
> and Air Transport) from activities described in Para 2(c) or 3 article 8."
This definition is much narrower and restricted than the definition of
"Royalty" under the Income-tax Act. In the case of Samsung Electronic Co. Ltd.
(supra) the Bench has considered this issue and had given a finding, that
under the Indo-US DT AA,  9 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 payment made for a copyrighted article is not "Royalty" and
that only Article '7' is attracted.
The OECD Commentary clarifies the distinction between the right to use
copyright and transfer of a copyrighted article. According to OECD, only a
transfer that enables a transferee to commercially exploit software copyright
will give rise to royalty income. But where the transferee gets exclusive
rights for use, though it is short of full ownership, it will nevertheless be
a case of sale of software. In such cases, the transaction will be outside the
tax net in India as the said transaction will give rise to business income and
in the absence of Permanent Establishment (PE) in India of Minitab Inc. Of
U.S.A, business income are not be chargeable to tax in India as per Article 7
of India -USA DT AA. There is no acquisition of the software rights in the
present case and that the copyright will remain the property of the supplier.
It is an outright sale of the software by the non-resident to the appellant
company and thus the payment made by the appellant is not for "Royalty". The
payments for obtaining computer software is in the nature of business
receipts.
The beneficiary of the receipts is not having any Permanent Establishment in
India. They are not having any fixed place of  10 National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 business through which their business is
wholly or partly carried on in India. Therefore, no operations have been
carried in India i.e. no part of the business activities is carried in India
by the non-resident sellers. Therefore, the income does not accrue or arise in
India and hence there being no liability to income-tax in India, there is no
withholding tax liability on such payments."
8\. Various decisions relied upon by the Ld. Counsel of the assessee are as
under:
> (a) DIT vs Infrasoft Ltd. (264 CTR 329) (Del He)
> (b) DIT vs Nokia Networks QY (358 ITR 259) (Del He)
> (c) DIT vs Ericsson A. B. (343 ITR 470) (Del He)
> (d) CIT vs Halliburton Export Inc (ITA No 363 of 2016) (Del He)
> (e) DDIT vs Reliance Industries Ltd (159 ITO 208) (Mum ITAT)
> (f) Capgimini Business Services (India) Ltd Vs ACIT (158 ITD 1) (MUM ITAT)
> (g) ADIT vs. Baan Global BV (ITA No 7048/Mum/2010) (Mum ITAT)
> (h) Galatea Limited vs CIT (157 ITD 938) (Mum ITAT)
> (i) ADIT (IT) vs First Advantage (P) Ltd (77 taxmann.com 195) (Mum ITAT)
9\. Per contra Ld. DR submitted that though the Hon'ble Delhi Court has
decided the similar issue in favour of the assessee there are Hon'ble
Karnataka High Court decisions which are in favour of the revenue. He
submitted that the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court has decided the issue in
favour of the revenue in the cases of CIT V.  11
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 Synopsis
International Old Ltd., 212 Taxman 0454 (Kar.HC), dated:03-08-2010, CIT V
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. & Others, (2011) 345 ITR 0494, Kar HC,
dated:15.10.2011, CIT V. Wipro Ltd. (2011), 355 ITR 0284(Kar)/ 203 Taxman 621
(Kar.) HC, dated: 15.10.2011 and CIT Vs. CGI information Systems and
Management consultants (P) Ltd., (2014) 48 Taxmann.com 264 (KAR), dated: 9-
6-2014. That the High court of Karnataka has decided the issue of software
Royalty, both before the insertion of Explanations 4, 5 and 6 in Section
9(1)(vi) of the LT. Act by the Finance Act, 2012 and even after their
insertion. That the insertion of these Explanations has not altered the views
of Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka and on the contrary the views of the
Hon'ble High court have been reaffirmed.
10\. Ld. DR further submitted that it's that explanation 4 inserted section
9(1)(vi), has to be given retrospective effect, in as much as it is
clarificatory in nature. In this regard he submitted that whether
amendment/explanations inserted in the Income Tax Act can be read into the
DTAA or not has to be considered on the anvil of ambulatory approach to
interpretation of treaty, as against static approach adopted by the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court. He further submitted that Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the
case of CIT vs. Siemens AG, 310 ITR 320 has approved the ambulatory approach.
12
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 Ld. DR further
submitted that eminent author Klaus vogel in his commentary has also supported
ambulatory approach. According to this approach, law in force as per the
domestic law would be law as it stands on the date of application of Treaty.
As against this Static Approach considers that law in force as per the
domestic law would be law as it stood on the date of entering into of Treaty.
11\. Ld. DR further submitted that in a recent decision in the case of DIT Vs.
New Skies Satellite BV & Others, 382 ITR 0114, dated: 08-02-2016, the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in paras 48 to 50 of its order seems to have corrected its
earlier stand regarding decision of Bombay High Court in the case of Siemens
AG, supra and acknowledged that the Bombay High court has followed Ambulatory
approach to interpretation of treaties. (Paras). That the Hon'ble Delhi High
court has been very categorical in this regard when in para 50 of its order it
has held that:
".....The Bombay High court seems to accept the ambulatory approach in such a
situation, thus allowing for successive amendments into the realm of "law in
force". We express no opinion in this regard since it is not in issue before
this court...."
12\. Hence Ld. DR pleaded that in view of the above pleadings this issue
should be decided in favour of the revenue.  13
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
13\. We have carefully considered the submissions and perused the records.
Before proceeding further we may refer to the relevant law and clauses of DTAA
-
Section 9(1)(vi) : The following income shall be deemed to accrue or arise in
India. Income by way of Royalty payable by
(a) the Government ; or
(b) a person who is a resident, except where the royalty is payable in respect
of any right, property or information used or services utilised for the
purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person outside India
or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source outside
India ; or
(c) a person who is a non-resident, where the royalty is payable in respect of
any right, property or information used or services utilised for the purposes
of a business or profession carried on by such person in India or for the
purposes of making or earning any income from any source in India :
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in relation to so
much of the income by way of royalty as consists of lump sum consideration for
the transfer outside India of, or the imparting of information outside India
in respect of, any data, documentation, drawing or specification relating to
any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or trade mark
or similar property, if such income is payable in pursuance of an agreement
made  14 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 before
the 1st day of April, 1976, and the agreement is approved by the Central
Government :
Provided further that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in relation
to so much of the income by way of royalty as consists of lump sum payment
made by a person, who is a resident, for the transfer of all or any rights
(including the granting of a licence) in respect of computer software supplied
by a non-resident manufacturer along with a computer or computer-based
equipment under any scheme approved under the Policy on Computer Software
Export, Software Development and Training, 1986 of the Government of India.
Explanation 1.--For the purposes of the first proviso, an agreement made on or
after the 1st day of April, 1976, shall be deemed to have been made before
that date if the agreement is made in accordance with proposals approved by
the Central Government before that date; so, however, that, where the
recipient of the income by way of royalty is a foreign company, the agreement
shall not be deemed to have been made before that date unless, before the
expiry of the time allowed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section
139 (whether fixed originally or on extension) for furnishing the return of
income for the assessment year  15 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 commencing on the 1st day of April, 1977, or the assessment
year in respect of which such income first becomes chargeable to tax under
this Act, whichever assessment year is later, the company exercises an option
by furnishing a declaration in writing to the Assessing Officer (such option
being final for that assessment year and for every subsequent assessment year)
that the agreement may be regarded as an agreement made before the 1st day of
April, 1976\.
Explanation 2.--For the purposes of this clause, "royalty" means consideration
(including any lump sum consideration but excluding any consideration which
would be the income of the recipient chargeable under the head "Capital
gains") for--
(i) the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in
respect of a patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or
trade mark or similar property ;
(ii) the imparting of any information concerning the working of, or the use
of, a patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or trade
mark or similar property ;
(iii) the use of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or
process or trade mark or similar property ;
16
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
(iv) the imparting of any information concerning technical, industrial,
commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill ; (iva) the use or
right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment but not
including the amounts referred to in section 44BB;
(v) the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in
respect of any copyright, literary, artistic or scientific work including
films or video tapes for use in connection with television or tapes for use in
connection with radio broadcasting, but not including consideration for the
sale, distribution or exhibition of cinematographic films ; or
(vi) the rendering of any services in connection with the activities referred
to in sub-clauses (i) to (iv), (iva) and(v). Explanation 3.--For the purposes
of this clause, "computer software" means any computer programme recorded on
any disc, tape, perforated media or other information storage device and
includes any such programme or any customized electronic data. Explanation 4.
--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the transfer of all
or any rights in respect of any right, property or information includes and
has always included transfer of all or any  17 National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 right for use or right to use a computer
software (including granting of a licence) irrespective of the medium through
which such right is transferred.
Explanation 5.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
royalty includes and has always included consideration in respect of any
right, property or information, whether or not--
(a) the possession or control of such right, property or information is with
the payer;
(b) such right, property or information is used directly by the payer;
(c) the location of such right, property or information is in India.
Explanation 6.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
expression "process" includes and shall be deemed to have always included
transmission by satellite (including up-linking, amplification, conversion for
down-linking of any signal), cable, optic fibre or by any other similar
technology, whether or not such process is secret;
14\. The term royalty has been defined in Article 12(3) of the INDO-USA DTAA
as under:-
> "a) Payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or right
> to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic to  18 National Stock Exchange
> of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 use, any copyright of a literacy,
> artistic or scientific work, including cinematograph, films or work on
> films, tapes or other means of reproduction for use in connection with radio
> or television broadcasting, any patent, trademark, design or model, plan,
> secret formula or process or for information concerning industrial,
> commercial or scientific experience, including gains derived from the
> alienation of any such rights or properly which are contingent on the
> productivity, or use or disposition thereof, and
> (b) Payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the
> right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, other than
> payments derived by an enterprise described in Para 1 or article 8 (Shipping
> and Air Transport) from activities described in Para 2(c) or 3 article 8."
We find that identical issue was considered by this tribunal in ADIT (IT) Vs.
First Advantage P. Ltd (77.Taxmann.com 195). Where similar item and same DTAA
with USA was under consideration. The tribunal vide order dated 11.01.2017 had
held as under, in favour of the assessee "We have heard rival contentions and
perused the record. The Ld D.R placed his reliance on various case laws
including the  19 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
decision rendered by Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of Cit Vs. CGI
Information Systems & Management Consultants ( P) Ltd (2014)(275 CTR 72),
Synopsis International Old Ltd (2013)(212 Taxman 0454) and CIT Vs. Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd (2011)(245 CTR 0481) in order to support the order passed
by the AO. On the contrary, the Ld A.R submitted that the assessee has
obtained only license to use the software. He submitted that the assessee is
entitled to use the software for its internal business operations only (Clause
1 of the agreement). He submitted that the clause 2(b) of the agreement
curtails the rights of the assessee and reads as under:
"2(b) Licensee may not (i) (other than accessing the Software as contemplated
by this Agreement) attempt to circumvent any security device or licensing
restriction contained in the software; (ii) assign, loan, rent, lease,
sublease, license, sublicense, encumber, mortgage, translate, modify, alter,
adapt, decompile, or disassemble the software or create derivate works based
on the software or otherwise reverse engineer the software; (iii) make copies
of Licensor Documentation except for one internal archival copy for each
Licensed User or (iv) remove alter, cover or obfuscate any copyright notice or
other proprietary rights notice placed in or on or displayed by the Software
and the Documentation, whether in machine language or human readable form..."
The Ld A.R submitted that the ownership, title and interest in the IPR of the
software vested with the US company and the assessee has no right in respect
of the same except the license to use the software as expressly granted under
the  20 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 agreement.
The Ld A.R submitted that the assessee has obtained only copyrighted article
from the US company and not the copyright in the software. Accordingly he
submitted that the payment made by the assessee to a copyrighted article,
which is akin to "off the shelf" software is not royalty. He submitted that
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, in the case of DIT Vs. Ifrasoft Ltd (264 CTR
329) has taken its view in favour of the assessee in this matter and hence the
decision rendered by Hon'ble Karnataka High Court, which was relied upon by
the Ld D.R, need not be followed. He submitted that the identical issues have
been decided by the co-ordinate benches of tribunal in various cases in favour
of the assessee by following the decisions rendered by Hon'ble Delhi High
Court. He submitted that the co-ordinate bench of Mumbai ITAT, in its recent
decision dated 13-06-2016 rendered in ITA No.7048/Mum/2010 in the case of ADIT
Vs. M/s Baan Global B V (now known as Information Global Solution (Barneveld)
BV) has considered an identical issue under the provisions of Income tax Act
as well as India-US DTAA and has decided the issue in favour of the assessee.
He further submitted that the provisions of DTAA will prevail over
retrospective amendment made in the Income tax Act.
We notice that the co-ordinate bench of tribunal has decided an identical
issue in the case of M/s Baan Global B V (supra) has considered an identical
issue and rendered its decision as under:
"10. We have heard the rival submissions, perused the relevant finding given
in the impugned order and also the various decisions, cited before us. The
sole issue involved before us is, whether the payment received by the assessee
on sale of computer  21 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 software product is to be treated as income by way of
"royalty" or business income. In case, if it is a 'business' income, then
admittedly, assessee being a non-resident company with no permanent
establishment in India, the same will not be taxable in India and if it is a
"royalty", then it has to be taxed at the rate of 15% as provide under the
treaty. Thus, the only issue for consideration is, whether the said payment
falls within the terms of "royalty" under Article 12(4) of India-Netherland
DTAA or under 9(1)(vi) of Income Tax Act. Here again, it is an undisputed fact
that, assessee being a tax resident of Netherland has sought benefit under
Indo Netherland DTAA, therefore, the payment received by the assessee from its
Indian Subsidiary, INFOR India has to be examined under the treaty provisions.
Briefly recapitulating the relevant facts for the purpose of our adjudication
emanating from the impugned order is that, Assessee Company is engaged in the
business of development and sale of computer software and also provides "other
general services" in relation to the software. For both the activities, it has
entered into a "distribution agreement" with its Indian subsidiary INFOR India
which mainly functions as a distributor of computer software. So far as
payments received from "other general services" of Rs.4,79,36,944/-, same has
been offered to tax in India as 'fee for technical services' on which there is
no dispute. The dispute is with regard to the payment of
Rs.3,75,25,291/-received by the assessee company as a sale consideration for
the computer products supplied by it. The computer software is sold "off
shelf" which is mainly used by the Indian customer in their business for
financial accounting, inventory management, HR management etc. INFOR India
carries out marketing and sale of the  22 National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 software in India and places order with the
assessee. The software supplied is then distributed to the Indian customers
through INFOR. The consideration charged by INFOR India is based on terms
agreed between the assessee and INFOR India as per the 'distribution
agreement'. Under the terms of the agreement, as noted by the CIT(A), there is
no transfer of any copyright in the software product. The payment received by
the assessee is purely towards a copyrighted software product as against the
payment for any copyright itself. The assessee does not give any right to use
the copyright embedded in the software. In other words, the Indian Customer
(or INFOR India) except for the limited right to access the copyright software
for its own business purpose does not acquire any kind of right to exploit the
copyright in the computer software. These facts have not been controverted by
the department and, therefore, what has been incorporated and stated by the
CIT(A) in his order is reckoned as admitted facts.
Now, on these facts, we have to decide, whether the payment received by the
assessee can be reckoned as "royalty" within the terms of article 12(4) of
DTAA. Before that, the relevant paragraph of Article 12 dealing with the
definition of "royalty" reads as under:-
"4. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind
received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright
of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, any
patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for
information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience".  23
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 From the plain
reading of the article it can be inferred that, it refers to payments of any
kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use any
'copyright' of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph
films, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or
process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific
experience. Thus, in order to tax the payment in question as "royalty", it is
sine qua non that the said payment must fall within the ambit and scope of
Para 4 of Article 12. The main emphasis on the payment constituting 'royalty'
in Para 4 are for a consideration for the 'use of' or the 'right to use' any
copyright.......... The key phrases "for the use" or "the right to use any
copyright of'; "any patent.......; "or process", "or for
information.........,"; "or scientific experience", etc., are important
parameter for treating a transaction in the nature of "royalty". If the
payment doesn't fit within these parameters then it doesn't fall within terms
of "royalty" under Article 12(4). The computer software does not fall under
most of the term used in the Article barring "use of process" or "use of or
right to use of copyrights" Here first of all, the sale of software cannot be
held to be covered under the word "use of process", because the assessee has
not allowed the end user to use the process by using the software, as the
customer does not have any access to the source code. What is available for
their use is software product as such and not the process embedded in it.
Several processes may be involved in making computer software but what the
customer uses is the software product as such and not the process, which are
involved into it. What is required to be examined in the impugned case as to
whether there is any use or right to use of copyright? The definition of
copyright, though has  24 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 not been explained or defined in the treaty, however, the
various Courts have consistently opined that the definition of "copyright" as
given in the 'Copyright Act, 1957' has to be taken into account for
understanding the concept. Section 14 of the said Act defines the 'copyrights'
to mean as under:-
"14.Meaning of copyright -For the purposes of this Act, "copyright" means the
exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the
doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial
part thereof, namely:-
> (a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a
> computer programme, -
> (i)to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in
> any medium by electronic means;
> (ii)to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
> circulation;
> (iii)to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;
> (iv)to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the
> work;
> (v)to make any translation of the work;
> (vi)to make any adaptation ofthe work;
> (vii)to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any
> of the acts specified in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (vi);
> 25
> National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
> (b) in the case of a computer programme,-
(i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a);
(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for commercial
rental any copy of the computer programme: Provided that such commercial
rental does not apply in respect of computer programmes where the programme
itself is not the essential object of the rental."
(c) in the case of an artistic work,-
(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including depiction in three
dimensions of a two dimensional work or in two dimensions of a three
dimensional work;
(ii) to communicate the work to the public;
(iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;
(iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;
(v) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vi) to do in relation to an adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (iv);
(d) In the case of cinematograph film,
(i) to make a copy of the film, including a photograph of any image forming
part thereof;
(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the film,
regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on earlier
occasions;
26
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
(iii) to communicate the film to the public;
(e) In the case of sound recording, -
(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it;
(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the sound
recording regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on
earlier occasions;
(iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public. Explanation: For the
purposes of this section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to
be a copy already in circulation".
Thus, the definition of 'copyright' in section 14 is an exhaustive definition
and it refers to bundle of rights. In respect of computer programming, which
is relevant for the issue under consideration before us, the copyright mainly
consists of rights as given in clause (b), that is, to do any of the act
specified in clause (a) from (i) to (vii) as reproduced above. Thus, to fall
within the realm and ambit of right to use copyright in the computer software
programme, the aforesaid rights must be given and if the said rights are not
given then, there is no copyright in the computer programme or software. As
noted by the CIT(A), under the terms of the agreement between the assessee and
INFOR India, the agreement specifically forbids them from decompiling, reverse
engineering or disassembling the software. The agreement also provides that
the end user shall use the software only for the operation and shall not
sublicense or modify the software. None of the conditions  27 National Stock
Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 mentioned in section 14 of the
Copyright Act are applicable. If the conclusion of Ld, CIT(A) are based on
these facts and agreement, then he has righty concluded that the consideration
received by the assessee is for pure sale of "shrink wrapped software" off the
shelf and hence, cannot be considered as a "royalty" within the meaning of
Article 12(4) of the DTAA, as the same is consideration for sale of
copyrighted product and not to use of any copyright.
12\. One of the issue which was raised by the Ld. DR before us is that, the
Explanation 4 to section 9(1)(vi) which has been with brought by Finance Act
2012 with retrospective effect in section 9(1)(vi), therefore, the meaning and
definition of 'royalty' as given therein should be read into the DTAA. We are
unable to appreciate this contention of the Ld. DR because the retrospective
amendment brought into statute with effect from 01.06.1976 cannot be read into
the DTAA, because the treaty has not been correspondingly amended in line with
new enlarged definition of 'royalty'. The alteration in the provisions of the
Act cannot be per se read into the treaty unless there is a corresponding
negotiation between the two sovereign nations to amend the specific provision
of "royalty" in the same line. The limitation clause cannot be read into the
treaty for applying the provisions of domestic law like in Article 7 in some
of the treaties, where domestic laws are made applicable. Here in this case,
the 'royalty' has been specifically defined in the treaty and amendment to the
definition of such term under the Act would not have any bearing on the
definition of such term in the context of DTAA. A treaty which  28 National
Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 has entered between the two
sovereign nations, then one country cannot unilaterally alter its provision.
Thus, we do not find any merit in the contention of the Ld. DR that the
amended and enlarged definition should be read into the Treaty."
Identical view has been expressed in the following cases also:-
(a) M/s Quaolcomm India P Ltd Vs. ADIT (ITA Nos. 1664 to 1667/Hyd/2011)
(b) Reliance Industries Ltd & Ors (47 CCH 94)(Mum-Trib)
(c) Capgemini Business Services (India) Ltd (46 CCH 253) (Mum- Trib) We notice
that the above said decisions have been rendered in favour of the assessee by
following the decision rendered by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Infrasoft ltd (supra) and other decisions rendered by Hon'ble Delhi High
Court. Accordingly, by following the decisions rendered by the co-ordinate
benches of the Tribunal, we uphold the orders passed by Ld CIT(A) in both the
years under consideration."
15\. In this regard we may also refer to Hon'ble Delhi High Court exposition
on this subject in the case of DIT vs Ericsson AB 343 ITR 470 as under:
> "That in order to qualify as royalty payment, within the meaning of section
> 9(1)(vi) and particularly clause (v) of Explanation 2 there to, it is
> necessary to establish that there is transfer of all or any rights
> (including the granting of any  29 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 licence) in respect of copyright of a literary, artistic
> or scientific work. Section 2(0) of the Copyright Act, 1957, makes it clear
> that a computer programme is to be regarded as a literary work. Thus, in
> order to treat the consideration paid by the cellular operator as royalty,
> it is to be established that the cellular operator, by making such payment,
> obtains all or any of the copyright rights of such literary work. This was
> not established. It was not even the case of the Revenue that any right
> contemplated' under section 14 of the 1957 Act stood vested in the cellular
> operator as a consequence of article 20 of the supply contract. Distinction
> has to be made between the acquisition of a "copyright right" and a
> "copyrighted article."
Even assuming that the payments made by the cellular operator were regarded as
a payment by way of royalty as defined in Explanation 2 below section
9(1)(vi), nevertheless, it could never be regarded as royalty within the
meaning of the term in article 13, paragraph (3) of the DT AA. This is so
because the definition in the DTAA is narrower than the definition in the Act.
Article 13(3) brings within the ambit of the definition of royalty a payment
made for the use of or the right to use a copyright of a literary work.
Therefore, what is contemplated is a payment that is dependent upon the user
of the copyright and not a lump sum payment as was the position in the present
case. Once the payment in question was not royalty which would come within the
mischief of clause (vi) the Explanation to section 9(1) would have no
application. The payment received by the assessee was towards the title and
GSM system of which soft- ware was an inseparable part incapable of
independent use and it was a contract for supply  30 National Stock Exchange
of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 of goods. Therefore, no part of the
payment, therefore could be classified as payment towards royalty."
16\. From the above case laws it is amply clear that it has been held that the
software sold by M/s. Minitab Inc USA to the assessee fell into the category
of "copyrighted article" against acquisition of "copyright" which qualified as
royalty payment. Furthermore Hon'ble Delhi High Court had held that even if
the item was regarded as royalty payment as defined in explanation to Section
9(1)(vi) nevertheless the DTAA would prevail where royalty is dependent upon
the use of the copyrights and not a lump sum as was in the present case. That
once the payment in question was not royalty which would, within the mischief
of clause (vi) the explanation to section 9 (1) would have no application.
17\. In this regard we have noted that Hon'ble Karnataka High Court has taken
a contrary view as under in the case of CIT vs. Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
(Supra). (Head notes only) "The assessee imported "shrink-wrapped"/ "off-the-
shelf" software from suppliers in foreign countries and made payment for the
same without deducting tax at source u/s 195. The AO & CIT (A) held that the
payments were assessable to tax as "royalty" u/s 9(1)(vi)/ Article 12 and that
the assessee was liable to pay the tax u/s 201. On appeal, the Tribunal relied
on the judgement of the Supreme  31 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
no.7735/Mum./2011 Court in Tata Consultancy Services vs. State of AP 271 ITR
401 (SC) and held that the assessee had acquired a "copyrighted article" but
not the "copyright" itself and so the amount paid was not assessable as
"royalty". On appeal by the department, HELD reversing the Tribunal:
(i) U/s 9(1)(vi) of the Act & Article 12 of the DTAA, "payments of any kind in
consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of a
literary, artistic or scientific work" is deemed to be "royalty". Under the
Copyright Act, 1957, a software programme constitutes a "copyright". A right
to make a copy of the software and use it for internal business by making copy
of the same and storing it on the hard disk amounts to a use of the copyright
u/s 14 (1) of that Act because in the absence of such a licence, there would
have been an infringement of the copyright. Accordingly, the argument that
there is no transfer of any part of the copyright and the transaction involves
only a sale of a copyrighted article is not acceptable. The amount paid to the
supplier for supply of the "shrink-wrapped" software is not the price of the
CD alone nor software alone nor the price of licence granted. It is a
combination of all. In substance unless a licence was granted permitting the
end user to copy and download the software, the CD would not be helpful to the
end user;
32
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
(ii) There is a difference between a purchase of a book or a music CD because
while these can be used once they are purchased, software stored in a dumb CD
requires a license to enable the user to download it upon his hard disk, in
the absence of which there would be an infringement of the owner's copyright.
(TCS vs. State of AP distinguished as being in the context of sales-tax);"
18\. We have also noted the submission of the Ld. DR that the seller of the
software has a copyright upon it. That distinction between copyright and
copyrighted article was originally coined by the US Internal Revenue Service.
He had also submitted that this interpretation is supportive of internal
revenue of the USA as majority of the software and the copyrights originate
from USA. By terming such transfer of software which are under copyright in
the USA as copyrighted article the software sellers of the USA where taken out
of the ambit of taxation of the other countries which were
purchasing/acquiring the software. Furthermore Ld. Counsel of the assessee has
pleaded that after the insertion of explanation iv to Section 9(i)(iv), this
software sale has also come under the ambit of royalty. However Hon'ble Delhi
High Court has applied the static approach under which domestic law as at the
time of the entering of the DTAA is applied and not the domestic law as
prevailing as which the ambulatory approaches mandates. He has further
submitted  33 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011 that
eminent author Klaus vogel has also favoured the ambulatory approach. He has
further mentioned the Hon'ble jurisdictional Bombay High Court has also
favoured ambulatory approach in some other decisions. We also note the Ld.
CIT-A has referred to a decision of Federal Court of Australia in the case of
IBM vs. CIT (supra) which held that similar payment by IBM Australia to IBM
USA under similar DTAA was royalty payment.
19\. We have carefully considered the above. However we find that admittedly
there is no direct jurisdictional High Court decision on the subject. However
there is a direct Hon'ble Delhi High Court decision which is in favour of the
assessee. As against this there are decisions of Hon'ble Karnataka High Court
which are in favour of revenue. In this regard we note that Hon'ble Apex Court
in the case of vegetable products 88 ITR 192 had held that if two
constructions are possible one in favour of the assessee should be adopted.
Accordingly respectfully following the precedent we follow the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court decision. Accordingly we set aside the order of authority below. We
hold that the transfer / sale of software in this case is not taxable as
royalty. Hence the assessee was not liable to deduct tax at source u/s 195 of
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Nishant Verma
    Sr. Private Secretary
                                                 AR/IAT Mumbai
                                         35
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
                                  ORDER
PER: SHAMIM YAHYA This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of Ld.
CIT-A dated 30.08.2011 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09.
2\. The grounds of appeal read as under:
> 1.(a) on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the appellant was liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 1961 on payment made to M/s. Minitab Inc., USA for
> acquisition of software by treating the same as 'royalty' chargeable to tax
> in terms of sections 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the reasons
> assigned for doing so are wrong and contrary to the facts and circumstances
> of the case, provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and Rules made there under.
> (b) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the payments made to M/s. Minitab Inc. (USA) for
> the purchase of computer software does not amount to business receipts in
> terms of Article 7 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements between India and
> USA.
> The appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter, modify and/or delete any of
> the above grounds of appeal on or before the date of hearing.
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
                                  ORDER
PER: SHAMIM YAHYA This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of Ld.
CIT-A dated 30.08.2011 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09.
2\. The grounds of appeal read as under:
> 1.(a) on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the appellant was liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 1961 on payment made to M/s. Minitab Inc., USA for
> acquisition of software by treating the same as 'royalty' chargeable to tax
> in terms of sections 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the reasons
> assigned for doing so are wrong and contrary to the facts and circumstances
> of the case, provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and Rules made there under.
> (b) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the payments made to M/s. Minitab Inc. (USA) for
> the purchase of computer software does not amount to business receipts in
> terms of Article 7 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements between India and
> USA.
> The appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter, modify and/or delete any of
> the above grounds of appeal on or before the date of hearing.
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
                                  ORDER
PER: SHAMIM YAHYA This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of Ld.
CIT-A dated 30.08.2011 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09.
2\. The grounds of appeal read as under:
> 1.(a) on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the appellant was liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 1961 on payment made to M/s. Minitab Inc., USA for
> acquisition of software by treating the same as 'royalty' chargeable to tax
> in terms of sections 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the reasons
> assigned for doing so are wrong and contrary to the facts and circumstances
> of the case, provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and Rules made there under.
> (b) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the payments made to M/s. Minitab Inc. (USA) for
> the purchase of computer software does not amount to business receipts in
> terms of Article 7 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements between India and
> USA.
> The appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter, modify and/or delete any of
> the above grounds of appeal on or before the date of hearing.
3\. The assessee for financial year 2007-08 has procured a software product on
which Minitab Inc. of USA has a copyright. No TDS was deducted by the
appellant in terms of Article 7 of the DTAA between India and USA.
Subsequently a notice u/s. 201(1) was issued for non deduction of TDS u/s.
195(1). It was explained to the Ld. A.O that M/s. Minitab Inc. is a company
resident in USA and does not have any PE in India. Therefore, provisions of
the DTAA between India and USA would be available to M/s. Minitab Inc, since,
section 90(2) provides that the provisions of the Act would apply only if they
are more beneficial to M/s. Minitab Inc. The Ld. AO rejected the claim of the
assessee by holding that the assessee was getting only license to use the
software and accordingly held  2 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
    Date of Hearing -11.04.2017               Date of Order -18.05.2017
                                  ORDER
PER: SHAMIM YAHYA This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of Ld.
CIT-A dated 30.08.2011 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09.
2\. The grounds of appeal read as under:
> 1.(a) on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the appellant was liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
> no.7735/Mum./2011 1961 on payment made to M/s. Minitab Inc., USA for
> acquisition of software by treating the same as 'royalty' chargeable to tax
> in terms of sections 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the reasons
> assigned for doing so are wrong and contrary to the facts and circumstances
> of the case, provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and Rules made there under.
> (b) On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
> CIT-A erred in holding that the payments made to M/s. Minitab Inc. (USA) for
> the purchase of computer software does not amount to business receipts in
> terms of Article 7 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements between India and
> USA.
> The appellant craves leave to add, amend, alter, modify and/or delete any of
> the above grounds of appeal on or before the date of hearing.
3\. The assessee for financial year 2007-08 has procured a software product on
which Minitab Inc. of USA has a copyright. No TDS was deducted by the
appellant in terms of Article 7 of the DTAA between India and USA.
Subsequently a notice u/s. 201(1) was issued for non deduction of TDS u/s.
195(1). It was explained to the Ld. A.O that M/s. Minitab Inc. is a company
resident in USA and does not have any PE in India. Therefore, provisions of
the DTAA between India and USA would be available to M/s. Minitab Inc, since,
section 90(2) provides that the provisions of the Act would apply only if they
are more beneficial to M/s. Minitab Inc. The Ld. AO rejected the claim of the
assessee by holding that the assessee was getting only license to use the
software and accordingly held  2 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA
the Income-tax Act, before remitting the money to the US supplier.  34
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, ITA no.7735/Mum./2011
20\. In the result, assessee's appeal stands allowed. Order pronounced in the
Open Court on 18th May, 2017.
         Sd/-                                           Sd/-
      RAVISH SOOD                                 SHAMIM YAHYA
    JUDICIAL MEMBER                             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    MUMBAI, DATED: 18th May, 2017.
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
    (1)    The Assessee;
    (2)    The Revenue;
    (3)    The CIT(A);
    (4)    The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;
    (5)    The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;
    (6)    Guard file.
                                                       By Order
