Madras High Court
Commissioner Of Income-Tax vs Amalgamations (P.) Ltd. on 1 March, 1976
Equivalent citations: 1977 108 ITR 895 Mad
Author: Sethuraman
Bench: V Ramaswami, V Sethuraman
JUDGMENT Sethuraman, J.
1\. The first two questions in T. C. No. 239 of 1971 and the two questions in
T. C. No. 160 of 1969 arise out of identical facts. T. C. No. 160 of 1969
relates to the assessment year 1958-59, and T. C. No. 239 of 1971 is a common
reference for the assessment years 1958-59 to 1962-63. Therefore, we consider
the first two questions in T. C. No. 239 of 1971, along with the two questions
in T.C. No. 160 of 1969.
2\. The assessee is a company incorporated on 22nd December, 1938, as a
private limited company. The objects of the company cover a very wide field.
The acquisition of shares, stacks, debentures, etc., taking part in the
formation, management, supervision or control of the business or operations of
any company or undertaking and for that purpose to act as directors are some
of the objects with which this company came into existence. It held shares in
several companies, such as Simpson and Company Ltd., Addison & Company Private
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
India Pistons Private Ltd., etc. Out of the issued capital of 7,50,000 shades
of Rs. 10 each in Simpson & Company Ltd., the assessee held at the material
time 7,06,933 ordinary shares. Simpson & Company Ltd. had a subsidiary by name
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., carrying on the business
of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of
loans and advances to the companies of this group. Till the Companies Act,
1956, came into force on April 1, 1956, there was no legal difficulty in
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in carrying on its
financing activity in the manner done by it. As on 1st July, 1956, a sum of
Rs. 1,85,16,000 was due to it from the assessee-company.
3\. Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956, provided, inter alia, that no
company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government in that behalf, directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company,
which is its holding company. Sub-section (3) of that provision enacted that
where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement
of the Companies Act, 1956, could not have been made without the previous
approval of the Central Government if that section had then been in force,
then the lending company had to, within six months, from the commencement of
the Act or such further time not exceeding six months as the Central
Government might grant for that purpose, either obtain the approval of the
Central Government to the transaction or enforce the repayment of the loan
made. Certain penal consequences follow the contravention of this provision.
There is a similar prohibition with reference to a loan to any private company
of which any director of the lending company is a director or a member. The
liability of Rs. 1,85,16,000 to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private)
Ltd. by the assessee was affected by the aforesaid provision, and it became,
therefore, necessary for the assessee to liquidate this liability. Simpson and
General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. itself owed a sum of Rs. 1,05,21,750 to
Simpson & Company Ltd. The assessee approached the Government of India for
necessary approval to put through certain transactions of sale of shares held
by it to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in liquidation of
the liability. Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., in its
turn, would discharge its liability to Simpson and Company Ltd. by selling its
holdings to Simpson and Company Ltd. The assessee and Simpson and General
Finance Company (Private) Ltd. proposed to sell the shares at certain
specified price per share and sought the approval of the Central Government
for such a sale. The Central Gove-rnmment, in approving the sale, fixed its
own prices and stated that the said fixation was without prejudice to any
valuation of shares for purposes of capital gains. The following table will
give an idea of the rates at which the assessee proposed to sell the
respective shares to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. and
the rate at which the Government of India gave its approval. We are also
giving below, for purposes of comparison, the rates which were fixed by the
Income-tax Officer with reference to these transactions and also the value per
share worked out in accordance with the rules under the Wealth-tax Act. The
following are the relevant figures :
NAME OF COMPANY SALE VALUE PROPOSED BY THE ASSESS EE SALE VALUE PROPOSED BY
COMPANY LAW DEPARTMENT SALE VALUE FIXED BY I.T.O.
VALUE AS PER WEALTH-TAX RULES
1\. Addison & Co. Pvt. Ltd.
150 140
168-75 143-10
2\. George Oakcs Ltd.
15 12
13.29  12
3\. Addison Paints & Chemicals Ltd.
10 10 10 10
4\. Indian Pistons Ltd.
14.75 14.75 15.03 14.75
5\. Wheel and Rim Company of India Ltd.
9.50 7-50 9.658 8.21
6\. Amco Batteries Ltd.
100 100 100 100
4\. The shares in the companies mentioned above were transferred by the
assessee-company with effect from 30th June, 1957, at the prices fixed by the
Company Law Administration to Messrs. Simpson & General Finance Company
(Private) Ltd., in the first instance, and Simpson and General Finance Company
(Private) Ltd. sold part thereof to Simpson & Company Ltd. The transaction
between Simpson & General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. and Simpson & Company
Ltd. was also at the same prices.
5\. The assessee wanted the sale prices fixed by the Company Law
Administration to be revised in accordance with the prices claimed by it in
submitting its proposals for the sale of the shares. The assessee was
represented by its chartered accountants, S. Vaidyanatha Aiyar & Company. On
18th May, 1957, there was a letter from the chartered accountants saying that
Mr. Vaidyanatha Aiyar had a conversation with Mr. Gupta, I.C.S., of the
Company Law Administration and explored the chances of the department
reviewing the take-over valuation of the shares. He was informed that the
department had taken into consideration all the relevant points in fixing the
share valuation and that the valuation so fixed was a more realistic and fair
one. He was also informed that the Company Law Administration had consulted
the Central Board of Revenue regarding the valuation of the shares and that
the Central Board of Revenue had agreed that the Company Law Department's
valuation was a more realistic one. If the assessee's valuation was to be
reconsidered, then, according to M/s. Vaidyanatha Aiyar & Company, the
department would have to consult the Central Board of Revenue again and much
valuable time would be lost and little would be gained in the end if the
valuation was reaffirmed. As a result of this letter, the assessee did not
pursue this matter of price revision.
6\. The assessee in submitting its income-tax return for the assessment year
1958-59, the relevant previous year ending 30th June, 1957, claimed a capital
loss of Rs. 4,37,703, in respect of the above transactions. In arriving at
this loss the assessee-company opted for the substitution of the market value
as on 1st January, 1954, in respect of the shares in, (1) S.R.V.S. (Private)
Ltd., (2) Addison & Company Ltd., (3) George Oakes (Private) Ltd., and (4)
India Pistons (Private) Ltd. As regards the rest of the shares, the assessee
adopted the cost prices.
7\. The Income-tax Officer went into the question whether this claim of
capital loss was correct. He was of the view that the price structure approved
by the department of Company Law Administration for the transfer of the
aforesaid shares was pure and simple on an ad hoc basis and meant to serve the
limited purpose of approval to be given under Section 372 of the Companies Act
of 1956. He considered that the price at which the sales took place could not,
therefore, be taken to represent the fair market value of the shares. In his
view, there was a reduction of the liability to capital gains. He took the
break-up value as on 1st January, 1954, for the purpose of computation of
capital gains and revised the sale prices as shown in the table. In this
process he arrived at Rs. 6,95,082 as the net capital gains. Even according to
his computation, there were certain capital losses which were adjusted as
against the capital gains determined by him. In the case of S.R.V.S. (Private)
Ltd. he took the break-up value as on 1st January, 1954, at Rs. 36,35,350 and
their sale value at Rs. 21,88,395 resulting in the capital loss of Rs.
14,46,955. There were sales of certain other shares also in which the capital
gains or loss arose but they need not be gone into for our purpose.
8\. The assessee appealed against the assessment of the capital gains to the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner. While the appeal was pending, the
Commissioner of Income-tax proceeded under Section 33B of the Indian Income-
tax Act of 1922, as he was of the view that the order of the Income-tax
Officer was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of revenue in so far as
the officer had wrongly allowed the capital loss amounting to Rs. 14,46,955 on
the sale of the shares in S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. The Commissioner noticed
that the Income-tax Officer in fixing the market value of the shares on 1st
January, 1954, looked behind the balance-sheet of S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. and
took into consideration the balance-sheet of Simpson and Company in which
S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. held shares, the book value of which came to Rs.
5,96,052. He found that the Income-tax Officer had enhanced the value of those
shares to Rs. 24,38,578 as on 1st January, 1954. For determining the sale
value of the shares in 1957, no reference to the balance-sheet of Simpson and
Company Ltd. was found necessary, inasmuch as S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. had
already parted with the said shares at their face value. In the opinion of the
Commissioner, the secondary valuation of the holdings of S.R.V.S. (Private)
Ltd. with reference to the balance-sheet of Simpson and Company Ltd. was not
proper. He, therefore, issued notice to the assessee asking it to show cause
why the Income-tax Officer's order should not be revised in so far as it was
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. After considering the assessee's
submission he held that the appreciation in value of the shares of Simpson and
Company held by S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. should not have been taken into
account, that if the value of the shares held by S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. in
M/s. Simpson & Company as on 1st January, 1954, had been Rs. 24,38,578,
S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. would not have parted with these shares at cost on
31st July, 1955, and that to compare the market price as on 1st January, 1954,
with the market price of the shares as on 30th April, 1957, it would not be
comparing the like with the like if this revaluation of the Simpson & Co.
shares was made. He, therefore, revised the capital loss allowed by the
Income-tax Officer of Rs. 14,46,955. He considered that there was capital
gains liable for assessment of Rs. 3,91,579. This figure was directed to be
substituted and the assessment of capital gains revised accordingly.
9\. The assessee appealed against this order to the Appellate Tribunal
contending that the sale value fixed by the Company Law Administration
represented the correct value of the shares, that the transactions were
without any motive to avoid capital gain, that they had been necessitated by
the various provisions of the Companies Act which prohibited inter-company
loans and that the method adopted by the Income-tax Officer, viz., the
secondary valuation, was proper.
10\. The Tribunal was of the view that, in putting through these transactions,
the company had no idea of avoiding or reducing its liability to capital
gains, that it did not fix the sale price of its own accord and that it
transferred the shares at the prices fixed by the Company Law Administration.
Though S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. was a transport company, as it held a
substantial portion of its funds in Simpson & Company, the method adopted by
the Income-tax Officer of secondary valuation was held to be proper and
confirmed by text books and a chartered accountant whose report was in
evidence. The Tribunal, therefore, allowed the appeal against the order of the
Commissioner of Income-tax revising the assessment.
11\. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner took up the appeals for this and
other years subsequent to the order of the Tribunal mentioned above. Following
the Tribunal's order he worked out the capital loss in respect of the other
shares under consideration and in effect accepted the assessee's claim of
capital loss of Rs. 4,37,703.
12\. This order led to appeals both by the assessee and the department to the
Tribunal. The assessee's appeal related to the computation of the capital loss
at Rs. 4,37,703 as emerging from the order of the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner instead of Rs 4,90,244 which would be the correct figure. The
department contested the acceptance of the claim of the assessee with
reference to the capital loss of Rs. 4, 37,703 as shown in its return.
13\. On the first occasion when the matter came before the Tribunal, it
remanded the case to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and called for a
specific finding whether the sales under consideration were effected with the
object of avoidance of tax or reduction of liability to tax and also wanted
the full value of consideration to be worked out, in case the first proviso to
Section 12B(2) should be held to be applicable. The Appellate Assistant
Commissioner observed that there was ample evidence to show that the sale of
shares was a forced one, that the assessee had no option but to comply with
the statutory provisions, that the evidence produced clearly established the
assessee's contention that the sale was not motivated by any desire to avoid
capital gains and that the department had not proved by any conclusive
evidence that the motive underlying the transaction was the avoidance or
reduction of the liability to capital gains tax. He worked out the figures in
accordance with the rules framed under the Wealth-tax Act and found that the
prices fixed by the Company Law Administration were not very much different
from the figures worked out by him.
14\. After receiving his report, the Tribunal considered the matter again and
held that proviso to Section 12B could not be invoked in the instant case, as
there was no evidence to support the view that the sales were effected with a
view to avoid the provisions of Section 12B. It accepted the, report with
reference to this aspect and held that the department was not justified in
computing the capital gains and disturbing the figures fixed by the Government
of India, It thus accepted the assessee's contention in this regard.
15\. Against the proceedings under Section 33B of the Act, the following two
questions have been referred in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 :
"(1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was right in upholding the basis of valuation adopted by the Income-tax
Officer for the shares in Messrs. Sri Rama Vilas Service (Private) Ltd. as on
January 1, 1954 ?
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was right in holding that the proviso to Section 12B(2) has no application in
regard to the sale of shares to M/s. Simpson & Company Ltd. ?" Out of the
order of the Tribunal in the appeal against the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner's order for 1958-59, the following two questions have been
referred in T.C. No. 239 of 1971 :
"(1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was right in holding that the proviso to Section 12B(2) has no application in
regard to the sale of various shares by the assessee-company to M/s. Simpson &
Co. Ltd. through M/s. Simpson & General Finance Co. (Private) Ltd. and that
the assessee was entitled to a capital loss of Rs. 9,47,541 in the assessment
year 1958-59 ?
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate
Tribunal was right in law in holding that the second proviso to Section 12B(2)
had no application and that the full value of the consideration accounted for
by the assessee should not be altered ?"
16\. The second question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 and the two questions in T.C.
No. 239 of 1971 raise more or less the same issue. Section 12B of the Act
provides for the levy of tax in respect of any profits arising from the sale
(among others) of a capital asset effected after the 31st day of March, 1956,
such profits and gains being deemed to be the income of the previous year in
which the sale took place. Section 12B(2) provides the manner of computation
of capital gains from the full value of the consideration for which the sale
or transfer of capital asset was made. Certain deductions are to be allowed,
viz., expenditure incurred in connection with the sale and the actual cost of
the capital asset. The third proviso to Section 12B gives the choice to the
assessee to substitute the actual cost for the fair market value on 1st
January, 1954, in case the capital asset became the property of the assessee
before that date. The first proviso to Section 12B(2) is material and,
therefore, it is extracted here :
"Provided that where a person who acquires a capital asset from the assessee,
whether by sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer, is a person with whom
the assessee is directly or indirectly connected and the Income-tax Officer
has reason to believe that the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer was
effected with the object of avoidance or redaction of the liability of the
assessee under this section, the full value of the consideration for which the
sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer is made shall, with the prior
approval of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, be taken to
be the fair market value of the capital asset on the date on which the sale,
exchange, relinquishment or transfer took place."
17\. The first requisite for the application of this proviso is that the
person to whom the sale is made should be a person with whom the assessee is
directly or indirectly connected. There can be no dispute that in the present
case the sale of shares to a subsidiary of a subsidiary is one to a person
with whom the assessee is directly or, in any view, indirectly connected. It
cannot be denied that there is a connection between the assessee and its
subsidiary. The subsidiary of a subsidiary is also, at any rate, indirectly
connected with the assessee. Therefore, the first requisite contemplated by
the proviso is satisfied here.
18\. The next point is to see whether the sale was effected with the object of
avoidance or reduction of the liability of the assessee under that section.
The Supreme Court has pointed out in I.C.I. (India) Private Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Income-tax , that the question whether the object of the
assessee in transferring assets was to avoid or reduce his liability to tax on
capital gains by making the transfer, did not involve the application of any
legal principles to the facts established by the evidence. The intention with
which the particular transfer was made and the object which was to be achieved
by such transfer was, it was held, essentially a question of fact, the
conclusion relating to which was to be arrived at on consideration of the
relevant material. The Supreme Court was dealing with the corresponding
provisions of the Income-tax Act of 1961. The principles laid down in the said
decision would equally apply to the provision before us also, as both are pari
materia.
19\. In the present case, the Income-tax Officer had not given a finding that
the object with which the transaction was put through was the avoidance or
reduction of the liability to capital gains tax. The only observation that he
had made in his order was that there was a reduction of liability to capital
gains. Such a finding of taking the result as if it was the object would not
satisfy the requirements of the first proviso to Section 12B(2) and when the
matter came before the Tribunal it rightly called for a finding on this point
specifically from the Appellate Assistant Commissioner. Taking into account
the circumstances in which the transaction took place, the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner reported that the object was not to avoid or reduce such
liability to capital gains tax. He was of the view that the sale was a forced
sale, that the assessee had no option and that the prices had been fixed by
the Company Law Administration. The Tribunal accepted this finding and
proceeded on the basis that the sale which was in accordance with the value
fixed by the Company Law Administration could not be used to be with the
object of avoidance or reduction of liability to capital gains. In view of
this finding, it follows that the proviso to Section 12B cannot be attracted
to the present case.
20\. We are not also satisfied that the department was right in its contention
that the sale price had been fixed by the Company Law Administration on some
ad hoc basis. The letter of 18th May, 1957, which is annexure "G. VII.A" to
the remand report to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, is clear to show
that the Company Law Administration worked out the figures in consultation
with the Central Board of Revenue, two departments of Government had consulted
each other and fixed up the prices and when the assessee sold the shares at
those prices, it cannot, in our opinion, be validly contended that the
assessee transferred the shares at certain prices with the object of avoidance
or reduction of liability to capital gains. The result is that the second
question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 and the second question in T.C. No. 239 of
1971 have to be answered in the affirmative and against the revenue.
21\. As regards the first question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 which raises the
question of valuation in the view that we have taken as regards the second
question, it would not survive for consideration. The question of valuation
would be material only if the proviso applied. However, having heard arguments
on it, we would indicate our answer to that question also. The point is
whether in valuing the shares of S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd., the shares held by
it in Simpson & Company should be taken at the book figure or in accordance
with the break-up value determined with reference to the balance-sheet of
Simpson and Company Ltd. In Business Mergers and Takeover Bid, by Ronald W.
Moon, fourth edition, at page 69, it is stated as follows:
"Shares and securities which are quoted will be valued at the middle price if
held for permanent investment, or at lower price if included with the current
assets. Unquoted stocks or shares, when the amount involved is material, must
be the subject of a secondary valuation by methods similar to those used for
the main valuation."
22\. The expression "secondary valuation" mentioned above is the valuation of
the shares held in another company by the break-up value method and not
necessarily by the figures shown in the shareholding company's balance-sheet.
In a study on share valuation issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India, at page 27, it is stated as follows :
"In the case of unquoted shares, etc., if the amount is material, a secondary
valuation of such shares may be necessary ; but if the number and value of
unquoted shares are not substantial, the value ascertained on the basis of
such evidence as is available in the last annual accounts of the company
concerned may be accepted."
23\. This is a case of substantial holding. Thus, there is textual backing to
the method adopted by the Income-tax Officer. The Commissioner has found fault
with it without any valid reason. The first question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969
is also answered in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.
24\. The first question in T.C. No. 239 of 1971 does not require any
independent treatment as whatever we have stated in answering the second
question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 would answer that question also. In the
question there is reference to a sum of Rs. 9,47,541. We are not concerned
with the figure as such. We answer that question also in the affirmative and
in favour of the assessee.
25\. We now turn to the third question in T.C. No. 239 of 1971 running as
follows :
"(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate
Tribunal was right in law in holding that the sums of Rs. 47,066 Rs. 90,896,
Rs. 1,08,978, Rs. 1,18,102 and Rs. 1,11,740 are admissible as a deduction in
the assessments of the assessee for the assessment years 1958-59 to 1962-63,
respectively?"
26\. We have seen that the assessee is a company which is a shareholder, as a
bulk shareholder, in several companies. There were 16 of them in the relevant
year. Apart from the dividend income from the shares in the several companies,
the assessee has also been assessed on the profit or loss of "business".
Mostly, the result was a loss. The assessee was rendering certain common
services to its subsidiaries by having: (1) a finance committee ; (2) a
liaison office in Delhi ; (3) an export promotion department; and (4) an
internal audit department. The expenditure on account of the latter three
activities, viz., maintenance of a liaison office in Delhi and the departments
of export promotion and the internal audit, was borne by the assessee and
recovered from the subsidiaries. The finance committee was working in an
advisory capacity to the various subsidiary companies to help them to carry on
their business more efficiently. All purchase requisitions for the purchase of
capital equipment beyond Rs. 500 of each purchase and Rs. 2,500 with reference
to purchase of raw materials were submitted to the finance committee for their
approval. It was stated that the purpose of such control was to judiciously
use the funds of the company, much of it borrowed, to the best advantage of
each company. Various data were gathered before such sanction was accorded or
refused. Likewise, technical matters or other matters of management were
referred to the members of the finance committee who were experienced in their
respective fields. The finance committee went through the financial position
of each company daily, containing the cash forecast, profit forecast and other
figures for comparison and advice.
27\. There were four directors of the assessed by name Austin, Kumar, Lund and
Watts. Except Watts the rest of them were members of the finance committee.
There were others who were neither directors of the assessee nor members of
the finance committee. All the said persons entered into service agreements
with the subsidiary companies. Kumar had a service agreement with
Amalgamations; but his remuneration was being paid by Addison Paints and
Chemicals (Private) Ltd. and Wheel & Rim Company of India (Private) Ltd. He
was entitled to a commission on net profits apart from the fixed remuneration
from the said companies. There were other agreements between the other persons
and other companies. In view of the provisions of Section 198 of the Companies
Act, 1956, fixing a ceiling on the overall managerial remuneration at 11 % of
the net profits of the company, it was not possible for the different
companies to pay the contracted remuneration to the persons concerned.
According to the assessee, if the said persons were not paid the contractual
remuneration, it would not have been possible to retain their services in the
respective companies. The directors of the assessee, therefore, considered
these questions of payment of the contractual remunerations. It was found that
the Company Law Administration was not agreeable to the inclusion of the
commission payable to the managerial staff in the minimum remuneration
provided under Section 198 of the Companies Act. It was, therefore, decided by
the assessee-company that the payment in excess of what is allowable under
Section 198 of the Companies Act, in each company would be met out of the
resources of the assessee. The assessee accordingly passed a resolution on
23rd April, 1959, accepting the liability to pay the excess to cover the
contractual remuneration out of its own funds. It paid diverse amounts to the
said directors and the total amount so paid to the several persons for the
different years have been set out in the question itself.
28\. The assessee claimed the said amounts as deduction under Section
10(2)(xv) of the 1922 Act for the assessment years 1958-59 to 1961-62 and
under Section 37 of the Act of 1961, for the assessment year 1962-63. Section
10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, and Section 37 of the Act of
1961 are identical in terms in so far as the present claim is concerned. It
was not in dispute before the Income-tax Officer that these payments were in
respect of the services rendered by respective persons to the various
subsidiary companies of which they were directors and that no part of the
payment could be related to any services directly rendered by them to the
assessee-company. It was argued that though the services were rendered by them
to the other companies, they should be deemed to have rendered them to the
assessee in view of the nexus between the holding company and its
subsidiaries. The Income-tax Officer was not prepared to accept this
submission. He held that the excess remuneration, over and above what was
admissible under Section 198 of the Companies Act, and was not borne by the
respective companies, could not be allowed as deduction under Section
10(2)(xv) of the Act of 1922 as expenditure wholly and exclusively incurred
for the purpose of business of the assessee. In his view it was only with a
view to overcome certain legal requirements that such an expenditure had been
borne by the assessee. He noticed that the sanction of the board of directors
was after the relevant accounting year for the assessment year 1958-59. The
resolution was passed on 23rd April, 1959, after the previous years for the
assessment years 1958-59 and 1959-60. Certain decisions were relied on before
him in support of the claim for allowance. He did not consider that those
decisions would apply to the facts of the present case. The result was the
disallowance of the respective amounts claimed by the assessee. On appeal, the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner was also of the same view. When the matter
came before the Tribunal there was remand with reference to this point also.
29\. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner reported that with reference to
those persons, who were both the directors of the assessee as well as the
members of the finance committee, the amounts could be allowed as deduction
and the balance could not be allowed. After this report, the Tribunal
considered the matter and came to the conclusion that the assessee's
activities were in the nature of a business, that it carried on its business
wholly or mainly in the dealing in or holding of investments and that the
expenses were wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the
assessee's business. Against the allowance so made, at the instance of the
Commissioner, the question as set out already has been referred.
30\. The only point to be considered is whether the respective amounts could
be said to be expenditure incurred wholly or exclusively for the purpose of
the assessee's business. The first aspect to be examined would, therefore, be
whether the assessee is carrying on any business at all. The learned counsel
for the department submitted that the mere holding of an investment would not
constitute business. The learned counsel for the assessee brought to our
notice a decision in Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Tyre Investment Trust
Ltd. [1924] 12 TC 646 (KB) in support of his submission that even holding of
investment will be classified as a business.
31\. In Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Tyre Investment Trust Ltd. [1924]
12 TC 646 (KB) the assessee-company was formed with the object of acquiring
the shares of two foreign companies and of selling them to an English company
which was likely to purchase them. After the assessee purchased the shares, it
took an active interest in the affairs of the two said companies. The
negotiations were proceeding for the sale of the shares. The company had
purchased certain other investments including Government loans out of which it
sold the Government loans. The company contended that it was not carrying on a
trade or business within the meaning of Section 38(1) of the Finance (No. 2)
Act, 1915, of the United Kingdom so as to be liable to excess profits tax. In
the assessee's submission it was only a holding company and stood in the same
position as an individual who had acquired and held investments. The Special
Commissioners accepted the submission. Rowlatt J. did not agree with the
conclusion and observed at page 655 as follows :
"Now I am bound to say I think that, even in the darkest days of my error as
to the necessity of an active carrying on of business, I should have held that
this company carried on business, because the whole of its existence seems to
be directed to the fact that it should have shares in other companies as to
which it should busy itself in the most active way and occupy itself as an
alert and astute shareholder looking after its holding in those companies, and
the companies themselves ; and that was its activity and it pursued it
zealously, so I should always have held that this company was carrying on
business. "
32\. The learned counsel for the department, however, submitted that this
decision would not hold good in India in view of a decision of the Supreme
Court in Bengal and Assam Investors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax . That
was a case in which the question was whether, in the case of an investment
company its dividend income formed part of its profits and gains chargeable to
tax under Section 10 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 ? The company was not
a dealer in shares. In answering this question, the Supreme Court observed at
page 554 as follows :
"It seems to us that on principle before dividends on shares can be assessed
under Section 10, the assessee, be it an individual or a company or any other
entity must carry on business in respect of shares; that is to say, the
assessee must deal in those shares. It is evident that if an individual person
invests in shares for the purpose of earning dividend he is not carrying on a
business. The only way he can come under Section 10 is by converting the
shares into stock-in-trade, i.e., by carrying on the business of dealing in
stocks and shares...... "
33\. The decision of Rowlatt J. was not brought to the notice of the court.
Lower down in the same page it was stated as follows :
"Apart from showing mere investment, no facts have been brought out in this
case to show that the company was in any way carrying on business in respect
of shares. Its position, on the facts placed before us, is in no way different
from an individual merely buying shares with a view to holding them for the
purpose of earning dividends."
34\. That was a case where a company purchased shares and sat back on its
investments so that it was a case of mere investment without any further
activity.
35\. The Supreme Court examined this problem in the case of Commissioner of
Income-tax v. Distributors (Baroda) P. Ltd. . In that case the assessee was a
managing agent. It held shares in the managed companies. It had shares in
other companies also. The income from the managing agency and the dividend
income from the shares held in the managed companies were more than the income
earned by it from its share dealing in the relevant years. The question before
the Supreme Court was whether the company could be said to be one, whose
business consisted "wholly or mainly in the dealing in or holding of
investments". The Supreme Court pointed out that in such a case the primary
activity should be the dealing in or holding of an investment. On the facts
the Supreme Court held that the assessee there was not a company whose
business consisted wholly or mainly in the holding of or in dealing with
investments. In the course of the judgment, the Supreme Court has referred to
the decision in Bengal and Assam Investors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax
and has also gone into the question as to whether there could be any business
of holding of investments. At page 383 the Supreme Court observed as follows:
"We cannot say that the legislature did not know its own mind when it used
that expression in Section 23A. We must give some reasonable meaning to that
expression. No part of a provision of a statute can be just ignored by saying
that the legislature enacted the same not knowing what it was saying. We must
assume that the legislature deliberately used that expression and it intended
to convey some meaning thereby. The expression 'business' is a well-known
expression in income-tax law. It means, as observed by this court in Narain
Swadeshi Weaving Mills v. Commissioner of Excess Profits Tax ' some real,
substantial and systematic or organised course of activity or conduct with a
set purpose'. This is also the meaning given to that expression in the earlier
decisions of the High Courts and the Judicial Committee. We must, therefore,
proceed on the basis that the legislature was aware of the meaning given by
courts to that expression when it incorporated Section 23A into the Act in
1957. Hence we must hold that when the legislature speaks of the business of '
holding of investments', it refers to real, substantial and systematic or
organised course of activity of investment carried on by an assessee for a set
purpose such as earning profits" (Underlining* ours).
36\. The learned counsel for the department wanted us to confine this decision
to the language of Section 23A, as in his submission, holding of investments
was taken to be a business only by reason of some statutory fiction. We have
looked into Section 23A and we do not find in it any words importing a
fiction. It considered two kinds of businesses : one is dealing in investments
and the other is holding of them and holding of investment in appropriate
cases would, in the view of Parliament, equally be a business as dealing in
them. The only requirement is that there must be a real substantial and
systematic or organised course of activity or conduct with the set purpose of
earning profit which is the test for a business.
37\. Examined in this light it would be found that the assessee is not a mere
investor in a single company. It has investments in 16 companies. It had taken
active interest in the business of these companies as is clear from the
services that had been rendered in the shape of export promotion, liaison
office at Delhi and internal audit. It also rendered consultation in respect
of finance by its directors meeting every day with reference to the needs and
requirements of each company. It was also stated before us that apart from the
original acquisitions, the assessee-company itself was responsible for
starting several engineering companies and that it held the shares in such
companies which it actively promoted. Even without going into the correctness
or otherwise of this submission about which the relevant facts do not appear
on record, we consider that the assessee-company had a systematic or organised
course of activity in the matter of working for and advising its subsidiaries.
This is not a case where the assessee contented itself with merely making an
investment and looking for the dividend. We would, therefore, hold that there
was a business activity in the matter of holding of investments on the facts
here.
38\. Even then, the question that would arise is whether the expenditure that
has been incurred was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the
assessee's business. The assessee's business is the holding of investments. If
the assessee had incurred any expenditure in respect of its business, it would
certainly be allowable as deduction.
39\. The question as to whether any expenditure that has been incurred was
wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assessee's business is
sometimes treated as a question of fact. See Commissioner of Income-tax v.
Chandulal Keshavlal & Co. and Commissioner of Income-tax v. Indian Mica Supply
Company (P.) Ltd. . A contrary view has, however, been taken in other
decisions. See, for example, Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of
Income-tax , Commissioner of Income-tax v. Greaves Cotton and Co. Ltd. and
Bengal Enamel Works Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax . The predominant trend
of authorities is in favour of the view that it is not a pure question of
fact.
40\. In Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax the Supreme
Court, after quoting Section 10(2)(xv), observed at page 739 as follows:
"The language seems to be simple enough but it has engendered judicial
conflict not only in India but also in England. Eminent judges have striven to
formulate correct tests to determine whether an expenditure has been laid out
or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of business or not, but no
one has been able to find a test in the application of which differences of
opinion do not arise. It seems to us, therefore, essential that, in each case,
the courts must always keep in mind the language of the section." The problem
cannot, therefore, be taken as purely factual.
For our present purpose, it is enough to refer to two decisions of the Supreme
Court in which the scope of Section 10(2)(xv) of the Act, 1922, has been
considered. In Commissioner of Income-tax v. Malayalam Plantations Ltd. the
assessee was a company which had to discharge the estate duty liability of a
shareholder by reason of Section 84 of the Estate Duty Act of 1953. It claimed
the payment as an expenditure deductible under Section 10(2)(xv) of the Act.
The Supreme Court rejected the claim. At page 150 it was observed as follows:
"However wide the meaning of the expression 'for the purpose of business' may
be, its limits are implicit in it. The purpose shall be for the purpose of the
business, that is to say, the expenditure incurred shall be for the carrying
on of the business and the assessee shall incur it in his capacity as a person
carrying on the business. It cannot include sums spent by the assessee as
agent of a third party, whether the origin of the agency is voluntary or
statutory ; in that event, he pays the amount on behalf of another and for a
purpose unconnected with the business."
41\. In Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax the Supreme
Court again considered the question of the deductibility under Section
10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, of wealth-tax paid by the
company. There was an earlier decision in the Travancore Titanium Product Ltd.
v. Commissioner of Income-tax holding that the wealth-tax paid was not
deductible expenditure. This decision came to be reviewed and the unanimous
view was that the amount paid as wealth-tax was liable to be deducted. Sikri
C.J. pointed out at page 747 as follows :
"......... if the expenditure is laid out by the assessee as owner-cum-
trader, and the expenditure is really incidental to the carrying on of his
business, it must be treated to have been laid out by him as a trader and as
incidental to his business. " (Underlined* by us).
42\. The two tests laid down are that the expenditure must be incurred by the
assessee in his capacity as a trader and that it must be incidental to the
carrying on of his business. There must be a nexus between the expenditure and
the business of the assessee. If there was such a nexus, the fact that the
said expenditure would benefit a third party also would not be material.
43\. The learned counsel for the assessee laid great emphasis on the decision
in Tata Sons Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax [1950] 18 ITR 460 (Bom). In
that case, the assessee was the managing agent of a company. The managed
company decided to pay a special bonus for the calendar year 1942, not
exceeding Rs. 1,20,000 to certain of its officers. The resolution by the board
of directors mentioned that, as in the earlier year, the managing agents had
decided to bear half of the sum. In accordance with the terms of that
resolution, the managing agents paid one-half of the bonus and claimed it as
deduction in its assessment. It was held that looking at the payment from the
point of view of commercial principles, what the assessee had done was
something which had as its object increasing the profits of the managed
company and thereby increasing its own share of the commission and that,
therefore, the sum claimed by the assessee was wholly and exclusively expended
for the purposes of its business and was an allowable deduction under Section
10(2)(xv) of the Act. In that case the assessee, who was the managing agent,
was eligible for a fixed remuneration and was entitled to a share in the net
profits of the company. The profits earned by the assessee was thus a share of
the profits of the managed company. There was what can be called a joint or
co-operative endeavour of making profits. Therefore, the assessee was vitally
interested in seeing that the profits of the managed company were maintained
at a high level, so that it could share in them. The result of the payment was
the direct benefit to the assessee in carrying on its own business. In other
words, the business of the managing agent and the managed company could not be
dissociated from each other. They were integrally connected so that the
expenditure was in the interests of the assessee, as such.
44\. Similarly, in the case of J. R. Patel and Sons (P.) Ltd. v. Commissioner
of Income-tax [1968] 69 ITR 782 (Guj) the managing agency company, which was
the assessee, had a managing director who was remunerated by it at Rs. 1,000
per month. He was also getting a fixed sum as well as commission at a
percentage on the sale proceeds from the managed company. With the passing of
the Companies Act, 1956, the remuneration that could be received from the
managed company was reduced and he could not also get his commission. In view
of this, the managing agent decided to pay the managing director Rs. 30,000
and also a percentage of the managing agency remuneration over and above a
particular amount. Apart from the sum of Rs. 1,000 per month which was being
paid by the assessee both before and after the aforesaid arrangements, the
assessee paid and claimed as deduction the sum of Rs. 30,000 and also the
percentage in the share of managing agency remuneration. Evidence was produced
to show that the managing director was a man of considerable experience and
high training and that he was responsible for the progress of the managed
company. It was held that the expenditure claimed by the assessee was
allowable as a deduction. At page 797 it was observed as follows--See [1968]
69 ITR 782 (Guj):
"In the instant case, the assessee-company has paid the extra remuneration to
its own managing director with the object of seeing to it that the affairs of
the managed company are properly looked after in the same manner as before and
thus the profits of the managed company are increased and its own share of the
commission is thereby increased."
45\. The decision in Tata Sons Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax [1950] 18
ITR 460 (Bom) was followed. This is also a case of a managing agency and as we
have already pointed out, in discussing the decision in Tata Sons Ltd.'s case
[1950] 18 ITR 460 (Bom), the business of the managing agent is integrally
connected with the business of the managed company. The managing agent being a
limited company it had necessarily to render its services through the human
agency of the managing director whom it thought fit to remunerate in the
manner done. The fact that previously he was directly remunerated by the
managed company to some extent cannot in any manner affect the allowability of
the deduction, because the employment of a qualified and experienced director
for the purpose of rendering services to the managed company was essential in
the interest of the assessee in that case.
46\. In Commissioner of Income-tax v. J. K. Industries (Private) Ltd. [1969]
71 ITR 594 (Cal) a director of the managing agent went on a foreign tour to
explore the possibilities of collaboration with certain foreign concerns and
also to acquire technical knowledge about the businesses of the managed
company. The expenditure on the foreign tour was claimed as deduction by the
managing agent. It was held that though by reason of the expenditure, some
benefit might have accrued to one or more of the managed companies, the
purpose for which the managing agent incurred the expenses was to increase its
own earnings or augmenting its own commission. It was, accordingly, allowed as
deduction. In our opinion, the case of a managing agency forms a category by
itself and in carrying on its own business, the managing agent was obliged to
incur the relevant expenditure. The fact that the said expenditure benefited
the managed company to some extent cannot rule out the deductibility of the
expenditure in the managing agent's hands.
47\. The question before us is whether the principle, which is applicable to
the managing agency companies, can be applied to a company, which is carrying
on the business of holding investments. As we have already seen, the decisions
of the Supreme Court required a nexus between the business of the assessee and
the expenditure that has been incurred. The business of the assessee is the
holding of investments. If with reference to this business of the holding of
investments any expenditure had been incurred, that would have been allowed as
deduction. The business of holding investment and the businesses of the
subsidiary companies are wholly separate and distinct. The expenditure that
has been incurred in the present case cannot be said to be in carrying on the
assessee's business of holding its investment. It could hold its investments
and earn its dividends without incurring this expenditure. Before the
introduction of the restrictive provision in the Companies Act of 1956, the
respective companies were paying the directors for services rendered to them
and they are now remunerated by the assessee. There was no change in the
rendering of services. Merely because the law had changed and the managed
company was not in a position to pay the same remuneration because of the
restrictive statutory provision, it does not mean that what was prior to 1956
Act expenditure of the subsidiary could, after it, become the expenditure of
the assessee. It was argued that, but for this expenditure, the services of
the respective directors would not have been available. There is some
reference to this aspect in the resolution passed by the assessee-company.
Even on the basis that the services of the respective directors would not have
been available, it does not, in our opinion, follow that the assessee was
obliged to take over the expenditure as part of, or incidental to, its own
business. The entities, viz., the assessee and the subsidiary companies, are
independent for all relevant purposes. Though it was argued before the
Tribunal that the assessee-company was carrying on its own business through
the agency of the subsidiaries, the learned counsel did not put forward such a
contention before us. The income of the assessee could only consist of the
dividends from the subsidiary companies as and when declared. Even under the
Act of 1922 as a result of the amendments made the dividend income has been
specifically brought within the head "other sources". There are decisions of
the highest authority which hold that notwithstanding the statutory
requirement that the computation of the dividend income had to be under the
head "other sources", still the income could be treated as business income for
all other purposes. See Commissioner of Income-tax v. Cocanada Radhaswami Bank
Ltd. and Commissioner of Income-tax v. Chugandas & Co. . Even bearing in mind
this principle and assuming that we have to treat the dividend income as
business income for our present purpose, still it cannot be held that there is
such a nexus between the expenditure and the business or the income of the
assessee so as to justify the deduction of the expenditure incurred in
remunerating the directors who rendered services to the subsidiary companies
and not to the assessee.
48\. The learned counsel for the revenue submitted that the expenditure
allowable under the head "other sources" is somewhat restrictive in its scope
and relied for this purpose on what was stated in Commissioner of Income-tax
v. Malayalam Plantations Ltd. . The relevant passage runs as follows :
"The expression 'for the purpose of the business' is wider in scope than the
expression' for the purpose of earning profits'."
49\. The learned counsel for the assessee, on the other hand, relied on
another judgment of the Supreme Court [Eastern Investments Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Income-tax \--a larger Bench--in which the principles
applicable to the deductibility of the expenditure under Section 10(2)(xv)
were applied in determining the deductibility of the expenditure under the
head "other sources", i.e., Section 12. For our present purpose, it is
unnecessary to go into this question as even on the view that the assessee is
earning business income, still the assessee will not be eligible for
deduction, as the expenditure is not incidental to its own business. It could
hold its investments or earn its income without incurring this expenditure.
50\. It is now well-settled in U. K. that a parent company cannot be allowed
to claim deduction in respect of a loss or expenditure incurred by or for the
purpose of a subsidiary company. See Odhams Press Ltd. v. Cook [1941] 9 ITR
(Supp) 92 (HL) and Marshall Richards Machine Co. Ltd. v. Jewitt (H. M.
Inspector of Taxes) [1956] 36 TC 511 (Ch D). In the last mentioned case a
British company incurred c&rtain expenditure towards the operating expenses of
its American subsidiary. There was a finding that the payment was for the
purpose of enabling the American subsidiary to meet its obligations and
continue in existence. It was held that the payment was not laid out in any
sense to advance the trade of the parent company. Though the motive was to
advance the trade of the parent company still it was held that it was not the
purpose of the payment. Applying the same ratio, the purpose in the present
case is only to bale out the subsidiary from an inconvenient situation in
which it found itself as a result of the statutory change restricting the
remuneration payable to its directors. The expenditure has not been incurred
wholly and exclusively for the assessee's business and cannot, therefore, be
allowed as deduction.
51\. During the course of the arguments there was some discussion as to
whether this claim would not come within the principle of an expenditure
incurred in violation of some statute. In the case of infraction of a statute
resulting in the payment of a fine, it has been held by the Supreme Court that
the fine cannot be allowed as deduction. See Haji Aziz and Abdul Shakoor Bros.
v. Commissioner of Income-tax . Even the expenditure incurred in defending a
prosecution has been held to be inadmissible. See Commissioner of Income-tax
v. H. Hirjee . This court dealt with a situation somewhat similar to the
present one in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ramakrishna Mills (Coimbatore)
Ltd. [1974] 93 ITR 49 (Mad) and examined the applicability of the said
decisions. In that case the company claimed allowance of remuneration paid to
the managing agency firm and also the salary paid to the manager. The manager
was a partner of the managing agency firm. The Income-tax Officer allowed
remuneration paid to the managing agency firm, but disallowed the salary to
the manager on the ground that the salary paid to him amounted to remuneration
paid to the managing agency and that it was in excess of the statutory
percentage prescribed in the Companies Act. In allowing the deduction claimed,
it was pointed out by this court, that there was no infringement of the
provision of the Companies Act when the company made payment to a partner of
the managing firm in his capacity as the manager of the assessee and that even
if there was an infringement, it would not disentitle the assessee to claim
deduction under Section 10(2)(xv). The decisions of the Supreme Court on this
point have been noticed. The decisions of the Supreme Court would not apply to
a case where there is no fine paid or penalty incurred for violation of law.
Therefore, even though the expenditure may be allowable as deduction if it
satisfied the requirements of Section 10(2)(xv) though the Companies Act may
discountenance it, still it has to be disallowed on the facts because it was
not incurred wholly and exclusively for the assessee's business.
52\. There was an alternative claim on behalf of the assessee that, at any
rate, with reference to the expenditure incurred by the assessee in
remunerating its own directors, who were also members of the licence
committee, the amount should be allowed as deduction, as there is a nexus
between the expenditure and the business of the assessee in rendering services
to its subsidiaries. The resolution passed by the assessee does not say that
the expenditure was incurred for the purpose of remunerating its own directors
in so far as they rendered services to it as members of the finance committee.
The resolution of the company treated the directors, whether they be the
members of the finance committee or not, as a class. With reference to all of
them the assessee incurred the expenditure, only because they could not be
remunerated to that extent by the subsidiary companies. The fact that they
were directors of the assessee and that they were members of the finance
committee had not been taken into account in taking over the remuneration
payable to them. In these circumstances, we do not find it possible to accept
the assessee's alternative contention either. The result is that the third
question has to be answered in the negative and against the assessee.
53\. We now take up for consideration the last three questions in T. C. No.
239 of 1971. There was a company by name Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd.,
which was originally a subsidiary of Addison & Co. Ltd. On and from February
1, 1954, the assessee-company purchased all the shares of Sembiam Saw Mills
(Private) Ltd. from Messrs. Addision & Co. (Private) Ltd. Sembiam Saw Mills
thus became the direct subsidiary of the assessee. It had borrowed monies from
the National Bank of India Ltd. and the assessee-company guaranteed the loan
to the said company by the bank. That company went into liquidation some time
in 1955. For the purpose of overdraft facilities the subsidiary, viz., Sembiam
Saw Mills, executed a promissory note in favour of the assessee, which in turn
endorsed it to the bank along with a separate guarantee letter in favour of
the bank. When Sembiam Saw Mills went into liquidation, the assessee, as
guarantor, was required to clear those overdrafts in accordance with the terms
of the guarantee. After adjusting the amount recovered from the liquidators,
the sum due to the assessee from the liquidated company on account of the said
overdraft was Rs. 9,08,764. The assessee claimed this amount as a loss which
arose in the course of and incidental to its businesss in the assessment for
1958-59. There were receipts by the assessee in the course of the liquidation
of Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. in the later years. The total amount
received came to Rs. 4,85,508.28 spread over the relevant accounting years for
the assessment years 1959-60 to 1962-63. The assessee relied on the clause in
the memorandum of association authorising it to be the guarantor for the loans
and contended that the transactions in question sprang out of normal business
transactions and hence the loss was an allowable deduction in the assessment
for 1958-59. The Income-tax Officer held that the loss in question did not
arise during the course of or incidental to its business. In his view, it was
at best a capital loss, which did not come within the scope of Section 12B.
54\. The assessee filed an appeal against the assessment for 1958-59. In
making the assessments for 1959-60 to 1962-63 the Income-tax Officer treated
the receipts from the liquidator as income as a protective measure. The
assessee objected to the said assessment also in the appeals before the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner. The, Appellate Assistant Commissioner did
not accept the assessee's claim for allowance of the loss in 1958-59. In his
view, it was not a loss which arose during the course of or was incidental to
its business. He, however, allowed the appeals for 1959-60 to 1962-63 in so
far as they related to the question of the receipts in the respective years
from the liquidator. As the guarantee loss had not been allowed as a deduction
in 1958-59, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the subsequent
recoveries could not be included in the total income in the later years.
55\. The assessee as well as the department preferred appeals against the said
orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner. The Ttibunal held that the
assessee had guaranteed the loan in the course of carrying on its own business
and that the loss was clearly admissible as a deduction. As the assessee had
received the last of the payments from the liquidator in the previous year
relevant to the assessment year 1962-63, it was held that the balance of Rs.
4,23,256 remaining unrecoverable represented the real business loss allowable
for the assessment year 1962-63. It is on these facts that the following
questions have been referred :
"(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate
Tribunal was right in law in holding that the loss sustained by the assessee
on account of standing guarantee to Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. (in
voluntary liquidation) should be allowed in 1962-63 assessment after taking
into account the amounts received from the liquidators during the years
1959-60 to 1962-63?
(5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was right in law in deleting the receipts of Rs. 1,41,000, Rs. 2,29,627, Rs.
1,10,500 and Rs. 4,381 from the liquidators of Sembiam Saw Mills (Private)
Ltd. (in voluntary liquidation), from the assessments for 1959-60, 1960-61,
1961-62 and 1962-63, respectively ?
(6) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate
Tribunal was right in law in holding that an amount of Rs. 4,23,256
representing the real loss sustained by the assessee on account of standing
guarantee of Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. (in voluntary liquidation)
should be allowed in the assessment for 1962-63 ?" The real point in issue is
whether the guarantee that was executed in favour of the bank in respect of
the loan to Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd., the assessee's subsidiary, was
done in the course of its own business. The nature of the business of the
assessee has been the subject of consideration in Amalgamations P. Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Income-tax [1969] 73 ITR 380 (Mad). There the question was
whether the provisions of Section 23A were applicable to the assessee. The
assessee had created a reserve of a sum of Rs. 60,000 towards the above
mentioned guarantee amount that was anticipated to be enforced against it, in
respect of the loan granted to Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. The point was
whether this reserve could be considered in the application of Section 23A to
the assessee. This court accepted the assessee's claim that the reserve was
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
in allowing it in that year. Questions Nos. 4 and 6 are answered in the
affirmative and against the revenue. We have already indicated the answer to
the other questions. As neither party has succeeded wholly in the reference,
there will be no order as to costs in both the cases.
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
India Pistons Private Ltd., etc. Out of the issued capital of 7,50,000 shades
of Rs. 10 each in Simpson & Company Ltd., the assessee held at the material
time 7,06,933 ordinary shares. Simpson & Company Ltd. had a subsidiary by name
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., carrying on the business
of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of
loans and advances to the companies of this group. Till the Companies Act,
1956, came into force on April 1, 1956, there was no legal difficulty in
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in carrying on its
financing activity in the manner done by it. As on 1st July, 1956, a sum of
Rs. 1,85,16,000 was due to it from the assessee-company.
3\. Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956, provided, inter alia, that no
company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government in that behalf, directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company,
which is its holding company. Sub-section (3) of that provision enacted that
where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement
of the Companies Act, 1956, could not have been made without the previous
approval of the Central Government if that section had then been in force,
then the lending company had to, within six months, from the commencement of
the Act or such further time not exceeding six months as the Central
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
India Pistons Private Ltd., etc. Out of the issued capital of 7,50,000 shades
of Rs. 10 each in Simpson & Company Ltd., the assessee held at the material
time 7,06,933 ordinary shares. Simpson & Company Ltd. had a subsidiary by name
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., carrying on the business
of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of
loans and advances to the companies of this group. Till the Companies Act,
1956, came into force on April 1, 1956, there was no legal difficulty in
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in carrying on its
financing activity in the manner done by it. As on 1st July, 1956, a sum of
Rs. 1,85,16,000 was due to it from the assessee-company.
3\. Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956, provided, inter alia, that no
company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government in that behalf, directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company,
which is its holding company. Sub-section (3) of that provision enacted that
where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement
of the Companies Act, 1956, could not have been made without the previous
approval of the Central Government if that section had then been in force,
then the lending company had to, within six months, from the commencement of
the Act or such further time not exceeding six months as the Central
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
India Pistons Private Ltd., etc. Out of the issued capital of 7,50,000 shades
of Rs. 10 each in Simpson & Company Ltd., the assessee held at the material
time 7,06,933 ordinary shares. Simpson & Company Ltd. had a subsidiary by name
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., carrying on the business
of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of
loans and advances to the companies of this group. Till the Companies Act,
1956, came into force on April 1, 1956, there was no legal difficulty in
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in carrying on its
financing activity in the manner done by it. As on 1st July, 1956, a sum of
Rs. 1,85,16,000 was due to it from the assessee-company.
3\. Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956, provided, inter alia, that no
company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government in that behalf, directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company,
which is its holding company. Sub-section (3) of that provision enacted that
where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement
of the Companies Act, 1956, could not have been made without the previous
approval of the Central Government if that section had then been in force,
then the lending company had to, within six months, from the commencement of
the Act or such further time not exceeding six months as the Central
Government might grant for that purpose, either obtain the approval of the
Central Government to the transaction or enforce the repayment of the loan
made. Certain penal consequences follow the contravention of this provision.
There is a similar prohibition with reference to a loan to any private company
of which any director of the lending company is a director or a member. The
liability of Rs. 1,85,16,000 to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private)
Ltd. by the assessee was affected by the aforesaid provision, and it became,
therefore, necessary for the assessee to liquidate this liability. Simpson and
General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. itself owed a sum of Rs. 1,05,21,750 to
Simpson & Company Ltd. The assessee approached the Government of India for
necessary approval to put through certain transactions of sale of shares held
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addision Paints and Chemicals Private Ltd.,
India Pistons Private Ltd., etc. Out of the issued capital of 7,50,000 shades
of Rs. 10 each in Simpson & Company Ltd., the assessee held at the material
time 7,06,933 ordinary shares. Simpson & Company Ltd. had a subsidiary by name
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd., carrying on the business
of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of
loans and advances to the companies of this group. Till the Companies Act,
1956, came into force on April 1, 1956, there was no legal difficulty in
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. in carrying on its
financing activity in the manner done by it. As on 1st July, 1956, a sum of
Rs. 1,85,16,000 was due to it from the assessee-company.
3\. Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956, provided, inter alia, that no
company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central
Government in that behalf, directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company,
which is its holding company. Sub-section (3) of that provision enacted that
where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement
of the Companies Act, 1956, could not have been made without the previous
approval of the Central Government if that section had then been in force,
then the lending company had to, within six months, from the commencement of
the Act or such further time not exceeding six months as the Central
Government might grant for that purpose, either obtain the approval of the
Central Government to the transaction or enforce the repayment of the loan
made. Certain penal consequences follow the contravention of this provision.
There is a similar prohibition with reference to a loan to any private company
of which any director of the lending company is a director or a member. The
liability of Rs. 1,85,16,000 to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private)
Ltd. by the assessee was affected by the aforesaid provision, and it became,
therefore, necessary for the assessee to liquidate this liability. Simpson and
General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. itself owed a sum of Rs. 1,05,21,750 to
Simpson & Company Ltd. The assessee approached the Government of India for
necessary approval to put through certain transactions of sale of shares held
liable to be considered in the context of the application of Section 23A. In
the course of the judgment it was observed as follows :
"The assessee's business is peculiar which includes furnishing guarantee to
debts borrowed by subsidiary companies."
56\. The finding given above squarely applies to the consideration of the
questions now before us. The assessee incurred this loss in carrying on its
own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its
subsidiary companies. It is now well settled that the loss is allowable as a
deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained. In the assessment
year 1958-59, the assessee had only been obliged to pay the bank. But it did
not become the loss because there were possibilities of recovery from the
liquidator as is clear from the later recoveries. The final payment from the
liquidator was received only in the previous year for 1962-63. It was only at
the stage of the final payment that the assessee could have ascertained what
the loss in the transaction of guarantee could be. As the loss arose in the
relevant previous year for the assessment year 1962-63 the Tribunal was right
