Central Government Act
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961  
2. Definitions.—1[
(1) ] In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “advocate” means an advocate entered in any roll under the provisions of
this Act;
(b) “appointed day”, in relation to any provision of this Act, means the day
on which that provision comes into force; 2[***]
(d) “Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under this Act;
(e) “Bar Council of India” means the Bar Council constituted under section 4
for the territories to which this Act extends; 3[***]
(g) “High Court”, except in sub-section (1) 4[and sub-section (1A)] of section
34 and in sections 42 and 43, does not include a court of the Judicial
Commissioner, and, in relation to a State Bar Council, means,—
(i) in the case of a Bar Council constituted for a State or for a State and
one or more Union territories, the High Court for the State;
(ii) in the case of the Bar Council constituted for Delhi, 5[the High Court of
Delhi];
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
from any University established by law in India;
(i) “Legal practitioner” means an advocate 6[or vakil] or any High Court, a
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;
(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) “roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained under this Act;
(l) “State” does not include a Union territory;
(m) “State Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under section 3;
(n) “State roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a State
Bar Council under section 17. 7[(2) Any reference in this Act to a law which
is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in the Union territory of
Goa*, Daman and Diu, shall, in relation to that State or that territory, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State or that territory, as the case may be.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
3. State Bar Councils.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council—
(a) for each of States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, 1[Jammu and
Kashmir], 2[Jharkhand] 3[Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh], 4[***], 5[***],
6[Karnataka], Orissa, Rajasthan 7[Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal], to be known
as the Bar Council of that State; 8[(b) for the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura to be known as the
Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and
Arunachal Pradesh;]
(c) for the State of Kerala and 9[the Union territory of Lakshadweep], to be
known as the Bar Council of Kerala; 10[(cc) for the 11[State of Tamil Nadu]
and the Union territory of Pondicherry to be known as the Bar Council of
Madras*;] 12[(ccc) for the States of Maharashtra and Goa, and the Union
territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, to be known as the
Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa;] 13[(d) for the States of Punjab and
Haryana, and the Union territory of Chandigarh, to be known as the Bar Council
of Punjab and Haryana;
(dd) for the State of Himachal Pradesh, to be known as the Bar Council of
Himachal Pradesh;]
(e) for the State of West Bengal and the 14[Union territory of Andaman and
Nicobar Islands], to be known as the Bar Council of West Bengal; and
(f) for the Union territory of Delhi, to be known as the Bar Council of Delhi.
(2) A State Bar Council shall consist of the following members, namely:—
(a) in the case of the State Bar Council of Delhi, the Additional Solicitor
General of India ex officio 15[in the case of the State Bar Council of Assam,
Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura, the Advocate General of each of the
State of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura, ex officio; in the
case of the State Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, the Advocate-General of
each of the State of Punjab and Haryana, ex officio;] and in the case of any
other State Bar Council, the Advocate-General of the State, ex officio; 16[(b)
in the case of a State Bar Council with an electorate not exceeding five
thousand, fifteen members, in the case of a State Bar Council with an
electorate exceeding five thousand but not exceeding ten thousand, twenty
members, and in the case of the State Bar Council with an electorate exceeding
ten thousand, twenty-five members, elected in accordance with the system of
proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote from
amongst advocates on the electoral roll of the State Bar Council:] 17[Provided
that as nearly as possible one-half of such elected members shall subject to
any rules that may be made in this behalf by the Bar Council of India, be
persons who have for at least ten years been advocates on a State roll, and in
computing the said period of ten years in relation to any such person, there
shall be included any period during which the person has been an advocate
enrolled under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926).] 18[(3) There
shall be a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman of each State Bar Council elected by
the Council in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3A) Every person holding office as Chairman or as Vice-Chairman of any State
Bar Council immediately before the commencement of the Advocates (Amendment)
Act, 1977 (38 of 1977) shall, on such commencement, cease to hold office as
Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may be: Provided that every such person
shall continue to carry on the duties of his office until the Chairman or the
Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, of each State Bar Council, elected after
the commencement of the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1977 (38 of 1977), assumes
charge of the office.] 19[(4) An Advocate shall be disqualified from voting at
an election under sub-section (2) or for being chosen as, and for being, a
member of State Bar Council, unless he possesses such qualifications or
satisfies such conditions as may be prescribed in this behalf by the Bar
Council of India, and subject to any such rules that may be made, an electoral
roll shall be prepared and revised from time to time by each State Bar
Council.
(5) Nothing in the proviso to sub-section (2) shall affect the term of office
of any member elected before the commencement of the Advocates (Amendment)
Act, 1964 (21 of 1964), but every election after such commencement shall be
held in accordance with the provisions of the rules made by the Bar Council of
India to give effect to the said proviso.] 20[(6) Nothing in clause (b) of
sub-section (2) shall affect the representation of elected members in any
State Bar Council as constituted immediately before the commencement of the
Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1973 (60 of 1973), until that State Bar Council is
reconstituted in accordance with the provision of this Act.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
4. Bar Council of India.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council for the territories to which this Act extends
to be known as the Bar Council of India which shall consist of the following
members, namely:—
(a) the Attorney-General of India, ex officio;
(b) the Solicitor-General of India, ex officio; 1[***]
(c) one member elected by each State Bar Council from amongst its members.
2[(1A) No person shall be eligible for being elected as a member of the Bar
Council of India unless he possesses the qualifications specified in the
proviso to sub-section (2) of section 3.] 3[(2) There shall be a Chairman and
a Vice-Chairman of the Bar Council of India elected by the Council in such
manner as may be prescribed.
(2A) A person holding office as Chairman or as Vice-Chairman of the Bar
Council of India immediately before the commencement of the Advocates
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (38 of 1977), shall, on such commencement, cease to hold
office as Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may be: Provided that such
person shall continue to carry on the duties of his office until the Chairman
or the Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, of the Council, elected after the
commencement of the Advocates (Amendments) Act, 1977 (38 of 1977), assumes
charge of the office.] 4[(3) The term of office of a member of the Bar Council
of India elected by the State Bar Council shall—
(i) in the case of a member of a State Bar Council who holds office ex-
officio, be two years from the date of his election 2[or till he ceases to be
a member of the State Bar Council, whichever is earlier]; and
(ii) in any other case, be for the period for which he holds office as a
member of the State Bar Council: Provided that every such member shall
continue to hold office as a member of the Bar Council of India until his
successor is elected.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
5. Bar Council to be body corporate.—Every Bar Council shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire and hold property, both moveable and immovable, and to contract, and may by the name by which it is known sue and be sued.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
6. Functions of State Bar Councils.—
(1) The functions of a State Bar Council shall be—
(a) to admit persons as advocates on its roll;
(b) to prepare and maintain such roll;
(c) to entertain and determine cases of misconduct against advocates on its
roll;
(d) to safeguard the rights, privileges and interests of advocates on its
roll; 1[(dd) to promote the growth of Bar Associations for the purposes of
effective implementation of the welfare schemes referred to in clause (a) of
sub-section (2) of this section clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 7;]
(e) to promote and support law reform; 2[(ee) to conduct seminars and organise
talks on legal topics by eminent jurists and publish journals and paper of
legal interest;
(eee) to organise legal aid to the poor in the prescribed manner;]
(f) to manage and invest the funds of the Bar Council;
(g) to provide for the election of its members; 3[(gg) to visit and inspect
Universities in accordance with the directions given under clause (i) of sub-
section (1) of section 7;]
(h) to perform all other functions conferred on it by or under this Act;
(i) to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid functions.
4[(2) A State Bar Council may constitute one or more funds in the prescribed
manner for the purpose of—
(a) giving financial assistance to organise welfare schemes for the indigent,
disabled or other advocates;
(b) giving legal aid or advice in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf;] 5[(c) establishing law libraries.]] 6[(3) A State Bar Council may
receive any grants, donations, gifts or benefactions for all or any of the
purposes specified in sub-section (2) which shall be credited to the
appropriate fund or funds constituted under that sub-section.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
7. Functions of Bar Council of India.—1[
(1) ] The functions of the Bar Council of India shall be— 2[***]
(b) to lay down standards of professional conduct and etiquette for advocates;
(c) to lay down the procedure to be followed by its disciplinary committee and
the disciplinary committee of each State Bar Council;
(d) to safeguard the rights, privileges and interests of advocates;
(e) to promote and support law reform;
(f) to deal with and dispose of any matter arising under this Act, which may
be referred to it by a State Bar Council;
(g) to exercise general supervision and control over State Bar Councils;
(h) to promote legal education and to lay down standards of such education in
consultation with the Universities in India imparting such education and the
State Bar Councils;
(i) to recognise Universities whose degree in law shall be a qualification for
enrolment as an advocate and for that purpose to visit and inspect
Universities 3[or cause the State Bar Councils to visit and inspect
Universities in accordance with such directions as it may give in this
behalf]; 4[(ia) to conduct seminars and organize talks on legal topics by
eminent jurists and publish journals and papers of legal interest;
(ib) to organise legal aid to the poor in the prescribed manner;
(ic) to recognise on a reciprocal basis foreign qualifications in law obtained
outside India for the purpose of admission as an advocate under this Act;]
(j) to manage and invest the funds of the Bar Council;
(k) to provide for the election of its members;
(l) to perform all other functions conferred on it by or under this Act.
(m) to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid functions;
5[(2) The Bar Council of India may constitute one or more funds in the
prescribed manner for the purpose of—
(a) giving financial assistance to organise welfare schemes for indegent,
disabled or other advocates;
(b) giving legal aid or advice in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf;] 6[(c) establishing law libraries.] 5[(3) The Bar Council of India may
receive any grants, donations, gifts or benefactions for all or any of the
purposes specified in sub-section (2) which shall be credited to the
appropriate fund or funds constituted under that sub-section.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[7A. Membership in international bodies.—The Bar Council of India may become
a member of international legal bodies such as the International Bar
Association or the International Legal Aid Association, contribute such sums
as it thinks fit to such bodies by way of subscription or otherwise and
authorise expenditure on the participation of its representatives in any
international legal conference or seminar.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[8. Term of office of Members of State Bar Council.—The term of office of an
elected member of a State Bar Council (other than an elected member thereof
referred to in section 54) shall be five years from the date of publication of
the result of his election: Provided that where a State Bar Council fails to
provide for the election of its member before the expiry of the said term, the
Bar Council of India may, by order for reasons to be recorded in writing,
extend the said term, the Bar Council of India may, by order, extend the said
term for a period not exceeding six months.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[8A. Constitution of Special Committee in the absence of election.—
(1) Where a State Bar Council fails to provide for the election of its members
before the expiry of the term of five years or the extended term, as the case
may be, referred to in section 8, the Bar Council of India shall, on and from
the date immediately following the day of such expiry, constitute a Special
Committee consisting of—
(i) the ex officio member of the State Bar Council referred to in clause (a)
of sub-section (2) of section 3 to be the Chairman: Provided that where there
are more than one ex officio members, the senior-most amongst them shall be
the Chairman; and
(ii) two members to be nominated by the Bar Council of India from amongst
advocates on the electoral roll of the State Bar Council, to discharge the
functions of the State Bar Council until the Bar Council is constituted under
this Act.
(2) On the constitution of the Special Committee and until the State Bar
Council is constituted—
(a) all properties and assets vesting in the State Bar Council shall vest in
the Special Committee;
(b) all rights, liabilities and obligations of the State Bar Council, whether
arising out of any contract or otherwise, shall be the rights, liabilities and
obligations of the Special Committee;
(c) all proceedings pending before the State Bar Council in respect of any
disciplinary matter or otherwise, shall stand transferred to the Special
Committee.
(3) The Special Committee constituted under sub-section (1) shall, in
accordance with such directions as the Bar Council of India may give to it in
this behalf, hold election to the State Bar Council within a period of six
months from the date of its constitution under sub-section (1), and where, for
any reason the Special Committee is not in a position to conduct election
within the said period of six months, the Bar Council of India may, for
reasons to be recorded by it in writing, extends the said period.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
9. Disciplinary Committees.—
(1) A Bar Council shall constitute one or more disciplinary committees, each
of which shall consist of three persons of whom two shall be persons elected
by the Council from amongst its members and the other shall be a person co-
opted by the Council from amongst advocates who possess the qualifications
specified in the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 3 and who are not
members of the Council, and the senior-most advocate amongst the members of a
disciplinary committee shall be the Chairman thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), any disciplinary
committee constituted prior to the commencement of the Advocates (Amendment)
Act, 1964, (21 of 1964) may dispose of the proceedings pending before it as if
this section had not been amended by the said Act.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[9A. Constitution of legal aid Committees.—
(1) A Bar Council may constitute one or more legal aid committees each of
which shall consist of such number of members, not exceeding nine but not less
then five, as may be prescribed.
(2) The qualifications, the method of selection and the term of office of the
members of legal aid committee shall be such as may be prescribed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
10. Constitution of committees other than disciplinary committees.—
(1) A State Bar Council shall constitute the following standing committees,
namely:—
(a) an executive committee consisting of five members elected by the Council
from amongst its members;
(b) an enrolment committee consisting of three members elected by the Council
from amongst its members.
(2) The Bar Council of India shall constitute the following standing
committees, namely:—
(a) an executive committee consisting of nine members elected by the Council
from amongst its members;
(b) a legal education committee consisting of ten members, of whom five shall
be persons elected by the Council from amongst its members and five shall be
persons co-opted by the Council who are not members thereof.
(3) A State Bar Council and the Bar Council of India may constitute from
amongst its members such other committees as it may deem necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act.
1 [ 10A Transaction of business by Bar Councils and committees thereof:-  2 [
(1) The Bar Council of India shall meet at New Delhi or at such other place as
it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, determine.
(2) A State Bar Council shall meet at its headquarters or at such other place
as it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, determine.]
(3) The committees other than disciplinary committees continued by the Bar
Councils shall meet at the headquarters of the respective Bar Councils.
(4) Every Bar Council and every committee thereof except the disciplinary
committees shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction
of business at their meetings as may be prescribed.
(5) The disciplinary committees constituted under section 9 shall meet at such
times and places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the
transaction of business at their meetings as may be prescribed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961 THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
11. Staff of Bar Council.—
(1) Every Bar Council shall appoint a Secretary and may appoint an accountant
and such number of other persons on its staff as it may deem necessary.
(2) The Secretary and the accountant, if any, shall possess such qualification
as may be prescribed.
12. Accounts and audit.—
(1) Every Bar Council shall cause to be maintained such books of accounts and
other books in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2) The accounts of a Bar Council shall be audited by auditors duly qualified
to act as auditors of companies under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), at
such times and in such manner as may be prescribed.
4 [(3) As soon as may be practicable at the end of each financial year, but
not later than the 31st day of December of the year next following, a State
Bar Council shall send a copy of its accounts together with a copy of the
report of the auditors thereon to the Bar Council of India and shall cause the
same to be published in the Official Gazette.]
4 [(4) As soon as may be practicable at the end of each financial year, but
not later than the 31st day of December of the year next following, the Bar
Council of India shall send a copy of its accounts together with a copy of the
report of the auditors thereon to the Central Government and shall cause the
same to be published in the Gazette of India.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
13. Vacancies in Bar Council and Committees thereof not to invalidate action taken.—No acts done by a Bar Council or any committee thereof shall be called in question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Council or committee, as the case may be.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
14. Election to Bar Councils not to be questioned on certain grounds.—No election of a member to a Bar Council shall be called in question on the ground merely that due notice thereof has not been given to any person entitled to vote threat, if notice of the date has, not less than thirty days before that date, been published in the Official Gazette.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
15. Power to make rules.—
(1) A Bar Council may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Chapter.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for— 1[(a) the election of members of the Bar
Council by secret ballot including the conditions subject to which persons can
exercise the right to vote by postal ballot, the preparation and revision of
electoral rolls and the manner in which the result of election shall be
published;] 2[***] 3[(c) the manner of election of the Chairman and the Vice-
Chairman of the Bar Council;]
(d) the manner in which and the authority by which doubts and disputes as to
the validity of an election to the Bar Council 4[or to the office of the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman] shall be finally decided; 5[***]
(f) the filling of casual vacancies in the Bar Council;
(g) the powers and duties of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Bar
Council; 6[(ga) the constitution of one or more funds by a Bar Council for the
purpose of giving financial assistance or giving legal aid or advice referred
to in sub-section (2) of section 6 and sub-section (2) of section 7;] 6[(gb)
organisation of legal aid and advice to the poor, constitution and functions
of committees and sub-committees for that purpose and description of
proceedings in connection with which legal aid or advice may be given;]
(h) the summoning and holding of meetings of the Bar Council, 7[***] the
conduct of business threat, and the number of members necessary to constitute
a quorum;
(i) the constitution and functions of any committee of the Bar Council and the
term of office of members of any such committee;
(j) the summoning and holding of meetings, the conduct of business of any such
committee, and the number of members necessary to constitute a quorum;
(k) the qualifications and the conditions of service of the secretary, the
accountant and the other employees of the Bar Council;
(l) the maintenance of books of accounts and other books by the Bar Council;
(m) the appointment of auditors and the audit of the accounts of the Bar
Council;
(n) the management and investment of the funds of the Bar Council.
(3) No rules made under this section by a State Bar Council shall have effect
unless they have been approved by the Bar Council of India.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
16. Senior and other advocates.—
(1) There shall be two classes of advocates, namely, senior advocates and
other advocates.
(2) An advocate may, with his consent, be designated as senior advocate if the
Supreme Court or a High Court is of opinion that by virtue of his ability
1[standing at the Bar or special knowledge or experience in law] he is
deserving of such distinction.
(3) Senior advocates shall, in the matter of their practice, be subject to
such restrictions as the Bar Council of India may, in the interest of the
legal profession, prescribe.
(4) An advocate of the Supreme Court who was a senior advocate of that Court
immediately before the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this section,
be deemed to be a senior advocate: 2[Provided that where any such senior
advocate makes an application before the 31st December, 1965 to the Bar
Council maintaining the roll in which his name has been entered that he does
not desire to continue as a senior advocate, the Bar Council may grant the
application and the roll shall be altered accordingly.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
17. State Bar Councils to maintain roll of advocates.—
(1) Every State Bar Council shall prepare and maintain a roll of advocates in
which shall be entered the names and addresses of—
(a) all persons who were entered as advocates on the roll of any High Court
under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), immediately before the
appointed day 1[including persons, being citizens of India, who before the
15th day of August, 1947, were enrolled as advocates under the said Act in any
area which before the said date was comprised within India as defined in the
Government of India Act, 1935, and who at any time] express an intention in
the prescribed manner to practise within the jurisdiction of the Bar Council;
(b) all other persons who are admitted to be advocates on the roll of the
State Bar Council under this Act on or after the appointed day.
(2) Each such roll of advocates shall consist of two parts, the first part
containing the names of senior advocates and the second part, the names of
other advocates.
(3) Entries in each part of the roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a
State Bar Council under this section shall be in the order of seniority,
2[and, subject to any rule that may be made by the Bar Council of India in
this behalf, such seniority shall be determined] as follows:—
(a) the seniority of an advocate referred to in clause (a) sub-section (1)
shall be determined in accordance with his date of enrolment under the Indian
Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926);
(b) the seniority of any person who was a senior advocate of the Supreme Court
immediately before the appointed day shall, for the purposes of the first part
of the State roll, be determined in accordance with such principles as the Bar
Council of India may specify; 3[***]
(d) the seniority of any other person who, on or after the appointed day, is
enrolled as a senior advocate or is admitted as an advocate shall be
determined by the date of such enrolment or admission, as the case may be;
4[(e) notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a), the seniority of an
attorney enrolled [whether before or after the commencement of the Advocate
(Amendment) Act, 1980] as an advocate shall be determined in accordance with
the date of his enrolment as an attorney.]
(4) No person shall be enrolled as an advocate on the roll of more than one
State Bar Council.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
18. Transfer of name from one State roll to another.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 17, any person whose name is
entered as an advocate on the roll of any State Bar Council may make an
application in the prescribed form to the Bar Council of India for the
transfer of his name from the roll of that State Bar Council to the roll of
any other State Bar Council and, on receipt of any such application the Bar
Council of India shall direct that the name of such person shall without the
payment of any fee, be removed from the roll of the first mentioned State Bar
Council and entered in the roll of the other State Bar Council and the State
Bar Councils concerned shall comply with such direction: 1[Provided that where
any such application for transfer is made by a person against whom any
disciplinary proceeding is pending or where for any other reason it appears to
the Bar Council of India that the application for transfer has not been made
bona fide and that the transfer should not be made, the Bar Council of India
may, after giving the person making the application an opportunity of making a
representation in this behalf, reject the application.]
(2) For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that where on an
application made by an advocate under sub-section (1), his name is transferred
from the roll of one State Bar Council to that of another, he shall retain the
same seniority in the latter roll to which he was entitled in the former roll.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
19. State Bar Councils to send copies of rolls of advocates to the Bar Council of India.—Every State Bar Council shall send to the Bar Council of India an authenticated copy of the roll of advocates prepared by it for the first time under this Act and shall thereafter communicate to the Bar Council of India all alterations in, the additions to, any such roll, as soon as the same have been made.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[20. Special provision for enrolment of certain Supreme Court advocates.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, every advocate who was
entitled as of right to practise in the Supreme Court immediately before the
appointed day and whose name is not entered in any State roll may, within the
prescribed time, express his intention in the prescribed form to the Bar
Council of India for the entry of his name in the roll of a State Bar Council
and on receipt thereof the Bar Council of India shall direct that the name of
such advocate shall, without payment of any fee, be entered in the roll of
that State Bar Council, and the State Bar Council concerned shall comply with
such direction.
(2) Any entry in the State roll made in compliance with the direction of the
Bar Council of India under sub-section (1) shall be made in the order of
seniority determined in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of
section 17.
(3) Where an advocate referred to in sub-section (1) omits or fails to express
his intention within the prescribed time, his name shall be entered in the
roll of the State Bar Council of Delhi.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
21. Disputes regarding seniority.—
(1) Where the date of seniority of two or more persons is the same, the one
senior in age shall be reckoned as senior to the other. 1[(2) Subject as
aforesaid, if any dispute arise with respect to the seniority of any person,
it shall be referred to the State Bar Council concerned for decision.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[22. Certificate of enrolment.—
(1) There shall be issued a certificate of enrolment in the prescribed form by
the State Bar Council to every person whose name is entered in the roll of
advocates maintained by it under this Act.
(2) Every person whose name is so entered in the State roll shall notify any
change in the place of his permanent residence to the State Bar Council
concerned within ninety days of such change.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
23. Right of pre-audience.—
(1) The Attorney-General of India shall have pre-audience over all other
advocates.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Solicitor-General of
India shall have pre-audience over all other advocates.
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2), the Additional
Solicitor-General of India shall have pre-audience over all other advocates.
1[(3A) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the second
Additional Solicitor-General of India shall have pre-audience over all other
advocates.]
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), 2[(2), (3) and (3A)], the
Advocate-General of any State shall have pre-audience over all other
advocates, and the right of pre-audience among Advocates-General inter se
shall be determined by their respective seniority.
(5) Subject as aforesaid—
(i) senior advocates shall have pre-audience over other advocates; and
(ii) the right of pre-audience of senior advocates inter se shall be
determined by their respective seniority.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
24. Persons who may be admitted as advocates on a State roll.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules made thereunder, a
person shall be qualified to be admitted as an advocate on a State roll, if he
fulfills the following conditions, namely:—
(a) he is a citizen of India: Provided that subject to the other provisions
contained in this Act, a national of any other country may be admitted as an
advocate on a State roll, if citizens of India, duly qualified, are permitted
to practise law in that other country;
(b) he has completed the age of twenty-one years;
(c) he has obtained a degree in law—
(i) before the 1[12th day of March, 1967], from any University in the
territory of India; or
(ii) before the 15th August, 1947, from any University in any area which was
comprised before that date within India as defined by the Government of India
Act, 1935; or 2[(iii) after the 12th day of March, 1967, save as provided in
sub-clause (iiia), after undergoing a three year course of study in law from
any University in India which is recognised for the purposes of this Act by
the Bar Council of India; or
(iiia) after undergoing a course of study in law, the duration of which is not
less than two academic years commencing from the academic year 1967-68 or any
earlier academic year from any University in India which is recognised for the
purposes of this Act by the Bar Council of India; or] 3[(iv) in any other
case, from any University outside the territory of India, if the degree is
recognised for the purposes of this Act by the Bar Council of India] or; 4[he
is barrister and is called to the Bar on or before the 31st day of December,
1976 5[or has passed the article clerks examination or any other examination
specified by the High Court at Bombay or Calcutta for enrolment as an attorney
of that High Court;] or has obtained such other foreign qualification in law
as is recognised by the Bar Council of India for the purpose of admission as
an advocate under this Act;] 6[***]
(e) he fulfils such other conditions as may be specified in the rules made by
the State Bar Council under this Chapter; 7[(f) he has paid, in respect of the
enrolment, stamp duty, if any, chargeable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2
of 1899), and an enrolment fee payable to the State Bar Council of 8[six
hundred rupees and to the Bar Council of India, one hundred and fifty rupees
by way of a bank draft drawn in favour of that Council]: Provided that where
such person is a member of the Schedule Castes or the Schedule Tribes and
produces a certificate to that effect from such authority as may be
prescribed, the enrolment fee payable by him to the State Bar Council shall be
9[one hundred rupees and to the Bar Council of India, twenty-five rupees].
10[Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, a person shall be deemed
to have obtained a degree in law from a University in India on that date on
which the results of the examination for that degree are published by the
University on its notice board or otherwise declaring him to have passed that
examination.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), 11[a vakil or a
pleader who is a law graduate] may be admitted as an advocate on a State roll,
if he—
(a) makes an application for such enrolment in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, not later than two years from the appointed day, and
(b) fulfils the conditions specified in clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f) of sub-
section (1). 12[(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) a
person who—
(a) 13[***] has, for at least three years, been a vakil or pleader or a
mukhtar, or, was entitled at any time to be enrolled under any law 14[***] as
an advocate of a High Court (including a High Court of a former Part B State)
or of a Court of Judicial Commissioner in any Union territory; or 15[(aa)
before the Ist day of December, 1961, was entitled otherwise than as an
advocate practise the profession of law (whether by of pleading or acting or
both) by virtue of the provision of any law, or who would have been so
entitled had he not been in public service on the said date; or] 16[***]
(c) before the 1st day of April, 1937, has been an advocate of any High Court
in any area which was comprised within Burma as defined in the Government of
India Act, 1935; or
(d) is entitled to be enrolled as an advocate under any rule made by the Bar
Council of India in this behalf, may be admitted as an advocate on a State
roll if he—
(i) makes an application for such enrolment in accordance with the provisions
of this Act; and
(ii) fulfils the conditions specified in clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f) of sub-
section (1).] 17[***]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[24A. Disqualification for enrolment.—
(1) No person shall be admitted as an advocate on a State roll—
(a) if he is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;
(b) if he is convicted of an offence under the provisions of the
Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955 (22 of 1955); 2[(c) if he is dismissed or
removed from employment or office under the State on any charge involving
moral turpitude. Explanation.—In this clause, the expression “State” shall
have the meaning assigned to it under Article 12 of the Constitution:]
Provided that the disqualification for enrolment as aforesaid shall cease to
have effect after a period of two years has elapsed since his 3[release or
dismissal or, as the case may be, removal].
(2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to a person who having
been found guilty is dealt with under the provisions of the Probation of
Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958).]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
25. Authority to whom applications for enrolment may be made.—An application for admission as an advocate shall be made in the prescribed form to the State Bar Council within whose jurisdiction the applicant proposes to practise.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
26. Disposal of applications for admission as an advocate.—
(1) A State Bar Council shall refer every application for admission as an
advocate to its enrolment committee, and subject to the provisions of sub-
sections (2) and (3) 1[and to any direction that may be given in writing by
the State Bar Council in this behalf], such committee shall dispose of the
application in the prescribed manner: 2[Provided that the Bar Council of India
may, if satisfied, either on a reference made to it in this behalf or
otherwise, that any person has got his name entered on the roll of advocates
by misrepresentation as to an essential fact or by fraud or undue influence,
remove the name of such person from the roll of advocates after giving him an
opportunity of being heard.]
(2) Where the enrolment committee of a State Bar Council proposes to refuse
any such application, it shall refer the application for opinion to the Bar
Council of India and every such reference shall be accompanied by a statement
of the grounds in support of the refusal of the application.
(3) The enrolment committee of a State Bar Council shall dispose of any
application referred to the Bar Council of India under sub-section (2) in
conformity with the opinion of the Bar Council of India. 1[(4) Where the
enrolment committee of a State Bar Council has refused any application for
admission as an advocate on its roll, the State Bar Council shall, as soon as
may be, send intimation to all other State Bar Councils about such refusal
stating the name, address and qualifications of the person whose application
was refused and the grounds for the refusal.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[26A. Power to remove names from roll.—A State Bar Council may remove from
the State roll the name of any advocate who is dead or from whom a request has
been received to that effect.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
27. Application once refused not to be entertained by another Bar Council except in certain circumstances.—Where a State Bar Council has refused the application of any person for admission as an advocate on its roll, no other State Bar Council shall entertain an application for admission of such person as an advocate on its roll, except with the previous consent in writing of the State Bar Council which refused the application and of the Bar Council of India.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
28. Power to make rules.—
(1) A State Bar Council may make rules to carry out the purposes of this
Chapter.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for— 1[(a) the time within which and form in
which an advocate shall express his intention for the entry of his name in the
roll of a State Bar Council under section 20;] 2[***]
(c) the form in which an application shall be made to the Bar Council for
admission as an advocate on its roll and the manner in which such application
shall be disposed of by the enrolment committee of the Bar Council;
(d) the conditions subject to which a person may be admitted as an advocate on
any such roll;
(e) the instalments in which the enrolment fee may be paid.
(3) No rules made under this Chapter shall have effect unless they have been
approved by the Bar Council of India.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
29. Advocates to be the only recognised class of persons entitled to practise law.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, there shall, as from the appointed day, be only one class of persons entitled to practise the profession of law, namely, advocates.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
30. Right of advocates to practise.—Subject to provisions of this Act, every advocate whose name is entered in the 1[State roll] shall be entitled as of right to practise throughout the territories to which this Act extends,—
(i) in all courts including the Supreme Court;
(ii) before any tribunal or person legally authorised to take evidence; and
(iii) before any other authority or person before whom such advocate is by or
under any law for the time being in force entitled to practise.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
31. Special provision for attorneys.—[Omitted by the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1976 (107 of 1976), sec. 7 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
32. Power of Court to permit appearances in particular cases.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, any court, authority, or person may permit any person, not enrolled as an advocate under this Act, to appear before it or him in any particular case.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
33. Advocates alone entitled to practise.—Except as otherwise provided in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, no person shall, on or after the appointed day, be entitled to practise in any court or before any authority or person unless he is enrolled as an advocate under this Act.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
34. Power of High Courts to make rules.—
(1) The High Court may make rules laying down the conditions subject to which
an advocate shall be permitted to practise in the High Court and the courts
subordinate thereto. 1[(1A) The High Court shall make rules for fixing and
regulating by taxation or otherwise the fees payable as costs by any party in
respect of the fees of his adversary’s advocate upon all proceedings in the
High Court or in any Court subordinate thereto.] 2[(2) Without prejudice to
the provisions contained in sub-section (1), the High Court at Calcutta may
make rules providing for the holding of the Intermediate and the Final
examinations for articled clerks to be passed by the persons referred to in
section 58AG for the purpose of being admitted as advocates on the State roll
and any other matter connected therewith.] 3[***]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
35. Punishment of advocates for misconduct.—
(1) Where on receipt of a complaint or otherwise a State Bar Council has
reason to believe that any advocate on its roll has been guilty of
professional or other misconduct, it shall refer the case for disposal to its
disciplinary committee. 1[(1A) The State Bar Council may, either of its own
motion or on application made to it by any person interested, withdraw a
proceeding pending before its disciplinary committee and direct the inquiry to
be made by any other disciplinary committee of that State Bar Council.]
(2) The disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council 2[***] shall fix a date
for the hearing of the case and shall cause a notice thereof to be given to
the advocate concerned and to the Advocate-General of the State.
(3) The disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council after giving the
advocate concerned and the Advocate-General an opportunity of being heard, may
make any of the following orders, namely:—
(a) dismiss the complaint or, where the proceedings were initiated at the
instance of the State Bar Council, direct that the proceedings be filed;
(b) reprimand the advocate;
(c) suspend the advocate from practice for such period as it may deem fit;
(d) remove the name of the advocate from the State roll of advocates.
(4) Where an advocate is suspended from practice under clause (c) of sub-
section (3), he shall, during the period of suspension, be debarred from
practising in any court or before any authority or person in India.
(5) Where any notice is issued to the Advocate-General under sub-section (2),
the Advocate-General may appear before the disciplinary committee of the State
Bar Council either in person or through any advocate appearing on his behalf.
3[Explanation.—In this section, 4[section 37 and section 38], the expressions
“Advocate-General” and Advocate-General of the State” shall, in relation to
the Union territory of Delhi, mean the Additional Solicitor General of India.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
36. Disciplinary powers of Bar Council of India.—
(1) Where on receipt of a complaint or otherwise the Bar Council of India has
reason to believe that any advocate 1[***] whose name is not entered on any
State roll has been guilty of professional or other misconduct, it shall refer
the case for disposal to its disciplinary committee.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the disciplinary
committee of the Bar Council of India may, 2[either of its own motion or on a
report by a State Bar Council or on an application made to it by any person
interested], withdraw for inquiry before itself any proceedings for
disciplinary action against any advocate pending before the disciplinary
committee of any State Bar Council and dispose of the same.
(3) The disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India, in disposing of
any case under this section, shall observe, so far as may be, the procedure
laid down in section 35, the references to the Advocate-General in that
section being construed as references to the Attorney-General of India.
(4) In disposing of any proceedings under this section the disciplinary
committee of the Bar Council of India may make any order which the
disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council can make under sub-section (3)
of section 35, and where any proceedings have been withdrawn for inquiry
3[before the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India] the State Bar
Council concerned shall give effect to any such order.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[36A. Changes in constitution of disciplinary committees.—Whenever in respect
of any proceedings under section 35 or section 36, a disciplinary committee of
the State Bar Council or a disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India
ceases to exercise jurisdiction and is succeeded by another committee which
has and exercises jurisdiction, the disciplinary committee of the State Bar
Council or the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India, as the case
may be, so succeeding may continue the proceeding from the stage at which the
proceedings were so left by its predecessor committee.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[36B. Disposal of disciplinary proceedings.—
(1) The disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council shall dispose of the
complaint received by it under section 35 expeditiously and in each case the
proceedings shall be concluded within a period of one year from the date of
the receipt of the complaint or the date of initiation of the proceedings at
the instance of the State bar Council, as the case may be, failing which such
proceedings shall stand transferred to the Bar Council of India which may
dispose of the same as if it were a proceeding withdrawn for inquiry under
sub-section (2) of section 36.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where on the
commencement of the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1973 (60 of 1973), any
proceedings in the respect of any disciplinary matter against an advocate is
pending before the disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council, that
disciplinary committee of the State Bar Council shall dispose of the same
within a period of six months from the date of such commencement or within a
period of one year from the date of the receipt of the complaint or, as the
case may be the date of initiation of the proceedings at the instance of the
State Bar Council, whichever is later, failing which such other proceedings
shall stand transferred to the Bar Council of India for disposal under sub-
section (1).]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
37. Appeal to the Bar Council of India.—
(1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the disciplinary committee of a State
Bar Council made 1[under section 35] 2[or the Advocate General of the State]
may, within sixty days of the date of the communication of the order to him,
prefer an appeal to the Bar Council of India.
(2) Every such appeal shall be heard by the disciplinary committee of the Bar
Council of India which may pass such order 2[(including an order varying the
punishment awarded by the disciplinary committee of the State Bar Council)]
thereon as it deems fit: 2[Provided that no order of the disciplinary
committee of the State Bar Council shall be varied by the disciplinary
committee of the Bar Council of India so as to prejudicially affect the person
aggrieved without giving him reasonable opportunity of being heard.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
38. Appeal to the Supreme Court.—Any person aggrieved by an order made by the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India under section 36 or section 37 1[or the Attorney-General of India or the Advocate-General of the State concerned, as the case may be,] may within sixty days of the date on which the order is communicated to him, prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court may pass such order 1[(including an order varying the punishment awarded by the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India)] thereon as it deems fit: 1[Provided that no order of the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India shall be varied by the Supreme Court so as to prejudicially affect the person aggrieved without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[39. Application of sections 5 and 12 of Limitation Act, 1963.—The provisions
of sections 5 and 12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall, so far
as may be, apply to appeals under section 37 and section 38.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[39. Application of sections 5 and 12 of Limitation Act, 1963.—The provisions
of sections 5 and 12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall, so far
as may be, apply to appeals under section 37 and section 38.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
40. Stay of order.—1[
(1) ] An appeal, made under section 37 or section 38, shall not operate as a
stay of the order appealed against, but the disciplinary committee of the Bar
Council of India, or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, may, from
sufficient cause, direct the stay of such order on such terms and conditions
as it may deem fit. 2[(2) Where an application is made for the stay of the
order before the expiration of the times allowed for appealing therefrom under
section 37 or section 38, the disciplinary committee of the State Bar Council,
or the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of India, as the case may be,
may, for sufficient cause, direct the stay of such order on such terms and
conditions as it may deem fit.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
41. Alteration in roll of Advocates.—
(1) Where an order is made under this Chapter reprimanding or suspending an
advocate, a record of the punishment shall be entered against his name—
(a) in the case of an advocate whose name is entered in a State roll, in that
roll; 1[***] any where any order is made removing an advocate from practice,
his name shall be struck of the State roll 2[***]. 3[***]
(3) Where any advocate is suspended or removed from practice, the certificate
granted to him under section 22, in respect of his enrolment shall be
recalled.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
42. Powers of disciplinary committee.—
(1) The disciplinary committee of a Bar Council shall have the same powers as
are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), in respect of the following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring discovery and production of any documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) requisitioning any public record or copies thereof from any court or
office;
(e) issuing commissions for the examination of witness or documents;
(f) any other matter which may be prescribed: Provided that no such
disciplinary committee shall have the right to require the attendance of—
(a) any presiding officer of a Court except with the previous sanction of the
High Court to which such court is subordinate;
(b) any officer of a revenue court except with the previous sanction of the
State Government.
(2) All proceedings before a disciplinary committee of a Bar Council shall be
deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228
of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860), and every such disciplinary
committee shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of sections
480, 482 and 485 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)1.
(3) For the purposes of exercising any of the powers conferred by sub-section
(1), a disciplinary committee may send to any civil court in the territories
to which this Act extends, any summons or other process, for the attendance of
a witness or the production of a document required by the committee or any
commission which it desires to issue, and the civil court shall cause such
process to be served or such commission to be issued, as the case may be, and
may enforce any such process as if it were a process for attendance or
production before itself. 2[(4) Notwithstanding the absence of the Chairman or
any member of a disciplinary committee on date fixed for the hearing of a case
before it, the disciplinary committee may, if it so thinks fit, hold or
continue the proceedings on the date so fixed and no such proceedings and no
order made by the disciplinary committee in any such proceedings shall be
invalid merely by reason of the absence of the Chairman or member thereof on
any such date: Provided that no final orders of the nature referred to in sub-
section (3) of section 35 shall be made in any proceeding unless the Chairman
and other members of the disciplinary committee are present.] 2[(5) Where no
final order of the nature referred to in sub-section (3) of section 35 can be
made in any proceedings in accordance with the opinion of the Chairman and the
members of a disciplinary committee either for want of majority opinion
amongst themselves or otherwise, the case, with their opinion thereon, shall
be laid before the Chairman of the Bar Council concerned or if the Chairman of
the Bar Council is acting as the Chairman or a member of the disciplinary
committee, before the Vice-Chairman of the Bar Council, and the said Chairman
or the Vice Chairman of the Bar Council, as the case may be, after such
hearing as he thinks fit, shall deliver his opinion and the final order of the
disciplinary committee shall follow such opinion.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[42A. Powers of Bar Council of India and other committees.—The provisions of
section 42 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the Bar Council of
India, the enrolment committee, the election committee, the legal aid
committee, or any other committee of a Bar Council as they, apply in relation
to the disciplinary committee of a Bar Council.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
43. Cost of proceedings before a disciplinary committee.—The disciplinary committee of a Bar Council may make such order as to the cost of any proceedings before it as it may deem fit and any such order shall be executable as it were an order—
(a) in the case of an order of the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council
of India, of the Supreme Court;
(b) in the case of an order of the disciplinary committee of a State Bar
Council, of the High Court.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
44. Review of orders by disciplinary committee.—The disciplinary committee of a Bar Council may of its own motion or otherwise review any order 1[within sixty days of the date of that order] passed by it under this Chapter: Provided that no such order of review of the disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council shall have effect unless it has been approved by the Bar Council of India.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
45. Penalty for persons illegally practising in courts and before other authorities.—Any person who practises in any court or before any authority or person, in or before whom he is not entitled to practise under the provisions of this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
45. Penalty for persons illegally practising in courts and before other authorities.—Any person who practises in any court or before any authority or person, in or before whom he is not entitled to practise under the provisions of this Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months.
48 [ 46 Payment of part of enrolment fees to the Bar Council of India.—
[Omitted by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).]]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[46A. Financial assistance to State Bar Council.—The Bar Council of India
may, if it is satisfied that any State Bar Council is in need of funds for the
purpose of performing its functions under this Act, give such financial
assistance as it deems fit to that Bar Council by way of grant or otherwise.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
47. Reciprocity.—
(1) Where any country, specified by the Central Government in this behalf by
notification in the Official Gazette, prevents citizens of India from
practising the profession of law or subjects them to unfair discrimination in
that country, no subject of any such country shall be entitled to practise the
profession of law in India.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Bar Council of India may
prescribed the conditions, if any, subject to which foreign qualifications in
law obtained by persons other than citizens of India shall be recognised for
the purpose of admission as an advocate under this Act.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
48. Indemnity against legal proceedings.—No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against any Bar Council or any committee thereof or a member of a Bar Council 1[or any Committee thereof] for any act in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or of any rules made thereunder.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[48A. Power of revision.—
(1) The Bar Council of India may, at any time, call for the record of any
proceeding under this Act which has been disposed of by a State Bar Council or
a Committee thereof, and from which no appeal lies, for the purpose of
satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of such disposal and may
pass such orders in relation thereto as it may think fit.
(2) No order which prejudicially affects any person shall be passed under this
section without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[48AA. Review.—The Bar Council of India or any of its committees, other than
its disciplinary committee, may of its own motion or otherwise review any
order, within sixty days of the date of that order, passed by it under this
Act.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[48B. Power to give directions.—
(1) For the proper and efficient discharge of the functions of a State Bar
Council or any Committee thereof, the Bar Council of India may, in the
exercise of its powers of general supervision and control, give such
directions to the State Bar Council or any committee thereof as may appear to
it to be necessary, and the State Bar Council or the committee shall comply
with such directions.
(2) Where a State Bar Council is unable to perform its functions for any
reason whatsoever, the Bar Council of India may, without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, give such directions to the ex officio
member thereof as may appear to it to be necessary, and such directions shall
have effect, notwithstanding anything contained in the rules made by the State
Bar Council.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
49. General power of the Bar Council of India to make rules.—1[
(1) ] The Bar Council of India may make rules for discharging its functions
under this Act, and, in particular, such rules may prescribe— 2[(a) the
conditions subject to which an advocate may be entitled to vote at an election
to the State Bar Council including the qualifications or disqualifications of
voters, and the manner in which an electoral roll of voters may be prepared
and revised by a State Bar Council;
(ab) qualifications for membership of a Bar Council and the disqualifications
for such membership;
(ac) the time within which and the manner in which effect may be given to the
proviso to sub-section (2) of section (3);
(ad) the manner in which the name of any advocate may be prevented from being
entered in more than one State roll;
(ae) the manner in which the seniority among advocates may be determined;
3[(af) the minimum qualifications required for admission to a course of degree
in law in any recognised University;]
(ag) the class or category of persons entitled to be enrolled as advocates;
(ah) the conditions subject to which an advocate shall have the right to
practise and the circumstances under which a person shall be deemed to
practise as an advocate in a court;]
(b) the form in which an application shall be made for the transfer of the
name of an advocate from one State roll to another;
(c) the standard of professional conduct and etiquette to be observed by
advocates;
(d) the standards of legal education to be observed by universities in India
and the inspection of universities for that purpose;
(e) the foreign qualifications in law obtained by persons other than citizens
of India which shall be recognised for the purpose of admission as an advocate
under this Act;
(f) the procedure to be followed by the disciplinary committee of a State Bar
Council and by its own disciplinary committee;
(g) the restrictions in the matter of practice to which senior advocates shall
be subject; 4[(gg) the form of dresses or robes to be worn by advocates,
having regard to the climatic conditions, appearing before any court or
tribunal;]
(h) the fees which may be levied in respect of any matter under this Act;
5[(i) general principles for guidance of State Bar Councils and the manner in
which directions issued or orders made by the Bar Council of India may be
enforced;]
(j) any other matter which may be prescribed: 6[Provided that no rules made
with reference to clause (c) or clause (gg) shall have effect unless they have
been approved by the Chief Justice of India:] 7[Provided further that] no
rules made with reference to clause (e) shall have effect unless they have
been approved by the Central Government. 6[(2) Notwithstanding anything
contained in the first proviso to sub-section (1), any rules made with
reference to clause (c) or clause (gg) of the said sub-section and in force
immediately before commencement of the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1973 (60 of
1973), shall continue in force until altered or repealed or amended in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[49A. Power of Central Government to make rules.—
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act including rules with respect
to any matter for which the Bar Council of India or a State Bar Council has
power to make rules.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for—
(a) qualifications for membership of a Bar Council and disqualifications for
such membership;
(b) the manner in which the Bar Council of India may exercise supervision and
control over State Bar Council and the manner in which the directions issued
or orders made by the Bar Council of India may be enforced;
(c) the class or category of persons entitled to be enrolled as advocates
under this Act;
(d) the category of persons who may be exempted from undergoing a course of
training and passing an examination prescribed under clause (d) of sub-section
(1) of section 24;
(e) the manner in which seniority among advocates may be determined;
(f) the procedure to be followed by a disciplinary committee of a Bar Council
in hearing cases and the procedure to be followed by a disciplinary committee
of the Bar Council of India in hearing appeals;
(g) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(3) Rules under this section may be made either for the whole of India or for
all or any of the Bar Councils.
(4) If any provision of a rule made by a Bar Council is repugnant to any
provision of a rule made by the Central Government under this section, then,
the rule under this section, whether made before or after the rule made by the
Bar Council, shall prevail and the rule made by the Bar Council shall, to the
extent of the repugnancy, be void. 2[(5) Every rule made under this section
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of
Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in
the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
50. Repeal of certain enactments.—
(1) On the date on which a State Bar Council is constituted under this Act,
the provisions of sections 3 to 7 (inclusive), sub-sections (1), (2) and (3)
of section 9, section 15 and section 20 of the Indian Bar Council Act, 1926
(38 of 1926), shall stand repealed in the territory for which the State Bar
Council is constituted.
(2) On the Date on which Chapter III comes into force, the following shall
stand repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 6, 7, 18 and 37 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of
1879), and so much of sections 8, 9, 16, 17, 19 and 41 of that Act as relate
to the admission and enrolment of legal practitioners;
(b) sections 3, 4, and 6 of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of
1920);
(c) so much of section 8 of the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), as
relates to the admission and enrolment of legal practitioners;
(d) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law insofar as they relate to the admission and enrolment of legal
practitioners.
(3) On the date on which Chapter IV comes into force, the following shall
stand repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 4, 5, 10 and 20 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of
1879), and so much of sections 8, 9, 19 and 41 of that Act as confer on legal
practitioners the right to practise in any court or before any authority or
person;
(b) sections 5, 7, 8, and 9 of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of
1920);
(c) section 14 of the Indian Bar Council Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), and so much
of sections 8 and 15 of that Act as confer on legal practitioners the right to
practise in any court or before any authority or person;
(d) the Supreme Court Advocates (Practice in High Courts) Act, 1951 (18 of
1951);
(e) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law conferring on legal practitioners the right to practise in any court or
before any authority or person.
(4) On the date on which Chapter V comes into force, the following shall stand
repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 12 to 15 (inclusive), sections 21 to 24 (inclusive) and section
39 and 40 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), and so much of
sections 16, 17 and 41 of that Act as relate to the suspension, removal or
dismissal of legal practitioners;
(b) sections 24 to 27 (inclusive) of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act
17 of 1920);
(c) sections 10 to 13 (inclusive) of the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of
1926);
(d) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law insofar as they relate to the suspension, removal or dismissal of legal
practitioners.
(5) When the whole of this Act has come into force—
(a) the remaining provisions of the Acts referred to in this section which do
not stand repealed by virtue of any of the foregoing provisions of this
section [except sections 1, 3 and 36 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18
of 1879)] shall stand repealed;
(b) the enactments specified in the Schedule shall stand repealed to the
extent mentioned therein.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
50. Repeal of certain enactments.—
(1) On the date on which a State Bar Council is constituted under this Act,
the provisions of sections 3 to 7 (inclusive), sub-sections (1), (2) and (3)
of section 9, section 15 and section 20 of the Indian Bar Council Act, 1926
(38 of 1926), shall stand repealed in the territory for which the State Bar
Council is constituted.
(2) On the Date on which Chapter III comes into force, the following shall
stand repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 6, 7, 18 and 37 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of
1879), and so much of sections 8, 9, 16, 17, 19 and 41 of that Act as relate
to the admission and enrolment of legal practitioners;
(b) sections 3, 4, and 6 of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of
1920);
(c) so much of section 8 of the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), as
relates to the admission and enrolment of legal practitioners;
(d) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law insofar as they relate to the admission and enrolment of legal
practitioners.
(3) On the date on which Chapter IV comes into force, the following shall
stand repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 4, 5, 10 and 20 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of
1879), and so much of sections 8, 9, 19 and 41 of that Act as confer on legal
practitioners the right to practise in any court or before any authority or
person;
(b) sections 5, 7, 8, and 9 of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of
1920);
(c) section 14 of the Indian Bar Council Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), and so much
of sections 8 and 15 of that Act as confer on legal practitioners the right to
practise in any court or before any authority or person;
(d) the Supreme Court Advocates (Practice in High Courts) Act, 1951 (18 of
1951);
(e) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law conferring on legal practitioners the right to practise in any court or
before any authority or person.
(4) On the date on which Chapter V comes into force, the following shall stand
repealed, namely:—
(a) sections 12 to 15 (inclusive), sections 21 to 24 (inclusive) and section
39 and 40 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), and so much of
sections 16, 17 and 41 of that Act as relate to the suspension, removal or
dismissal of legal practitioners;
(b) sections 24 to 27 (inclusive) of the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act
17 of 1920);
(c) sections 10 to 13 (inclusive) of the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of
1926);
(d) the provisions of the Letters Patent of any High Court and of any other
law insofar as they relate to the suspension, removal or dismissal of legal
practitioners.
(5) When the whole of this Act has come into force—
(a) the remaining provisions of the Acts referred to in this section which do
not stand repealed by virtue of any of the foregoing provisions of this
section [except sections 1, 3 and 36 of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18
of 1879)] shall stand repealed;
(b) the enactments specified in the Schedule shall stand repealed to the
extent mentioned therein.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
51. Rule of construction.—On and from the appointed day, references in any enactment to an advocate enrolled by a High Court in any form of words shall be construed as references to an advocate enrolled under this Act.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
52. Saving.—Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect the power of the Supreme Court to make rules under article 145 of the Constitution—
(a) for laying down the conditions subject to which a senior advocate shall be
entitled to practise in that Court;
(b) for determining the persons who shall be entitled to 1[act or plead] in
that Court.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
53. Elections to first State Bar Council.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the elected members of a State Bar Council, constituted for the first time under this Act, shall be elected by and from amongst advocates, vakils, pleaders and attorneys who, on the date of the election, are entitled as of right to practise in the High Court and are ordinarily practising within the territory for which the Bar Council is to be constituted. Explanation.—Where the territory for which the Bar Council is to be constituted includes a Union territory, the expression “High Court” shall include the Court of the Judicial Commissioner of that Union territory.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
54. Term of office of members of first 1[***] State Bar Council.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the term of office of the 2[***] elected members of 1[***] a State Bar Council constituted for the first time, shall be two years from the date of the first meeting of the Council: 3[Provided that such members shall continue to hold office until the State Bar Council is reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of this Act.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
55. Rights of certain existing legal practitioners not affected.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,—
(a) every pleader or vakil practising as such immediately before the date on
which Chapter IV comes into force (hereinafter in this section referred to as
the said date) by virtue of the provisions of the Legal Practitioners Act,
1879 (18 of 1879), the Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920 (17 of 1920), or any other
law who does not elect to be, or is not qualified to be, enrolled as an
advocate under this Act; 1[***] 2[(c) every mukhtar practising as such
immediately before the said date by virtue of the provisions of the Legal
Practitioners Act, 1879, or any other law, who does not elect to be, or is not
qualified to be, enrolled as an advocate under this Act;
(d) every revenue agent practising as such immediately before the said date by
virtue of the provisions of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), or
any other law,] shall, notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of the relevant
provisions of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), the Bombay
Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of 1920), or other law, continue to enjoy
the same right as respects practice in any court or revenue office or before
any authority or person and be subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the
same authority which he enjoyed or, as the case may be, to which he was
subject immediately before the said date and accordingly the relevant
provisions of the Acts or law aforesaid shall have effect in relation to such
persons as if they had not been repealed.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
56. Dissolution of existing Bar Council.—
(1) On the constitution under this Act of a State Bar Council, other than the
Bar Council of Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the new Bar Council)—
(a) all properties and assets vesting in the corresponding Bar Council shall
vest in the new Bar Council;
(b) all rights, liabilities, and obligations or the corresponding Bar Council
whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, shall be the rights,
liabilities and obligations respectively of the new Bar Council;
(c) all proceedings pending before the corresponding Bar Council in respect of
any disciplinary matter or otherwise shall stand transferred to the new Bar
Council.
(2) In this section, “corresponding Bar Council” in relation to a State Bar
Council, other than the Bar Council of Delhi, means the Bar Council for the
High Court in the territory for which the State Bar Council is constituted
under this Act.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
57. Power to make rules pending the constitution of a Bar Council.—Until a Bar Council is constituted under this Act the power of that Bar Council to make rules under this Act shall be exercised,—
(a) in the case of the Bar Council of India, by the Supreme Court;
(b) in the case of a State Bar Council, by the High Court.
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58. Special provisions during the transitional period.—
(1) Where a State Bar Council has not been constituted under this Act or where
a State Bar Council so constituted is unable to perform its functions by
reason of any order of a court or otherwise, the functions of the Bar Council
or any Committee thereof, insofar as they relate to the admission and
enrolment of advocates, shall be performed by the High Court in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Until Chapter IV comes into force, a State Bar Council or a High Court
performing the functions of a State Bar Council may enrol any person to be an
advocate on a State roll, if he is qualified to be so enrolled under this Act,
notwithstanding that no rules have been made under section 28 or that the
rules so made have not been approved by the Bar Council of India, and every
person so enrolled shall, until that Chapter comes into force, be entitled to
all the rights of practice conferred on an advocate under section 14 of the
Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926).
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person who,
immediately before the Ist day of December, 1961, was an advocate on the roll
of any High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), or who
has been enrolled as an advocate under this Act shall, until Chapter IV comes
into force, be entitled as of right to practise in the Supreme Court, subject
to the rules made by the Supreme Court in this behalf.
(4) Notwithstanding the repeal by sub-section (2) of section 50 of the
provisions of the Legal Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), or of the Bombay
Pleaders Act, 1920 (Bombay Act 17 of 1920), 2[or of any other law relating to
the admission and enrolment of legal practitioners, the provisions of the
Acts, and law aforesaid] and any rules made thereunder insofar as they relate
to 3[the renewal or the issue by way of renewal] of a certificate to a legal
practitioner authorising him to practise shall have effect until Chapter IV
comes into force and, accordingly, every certificate issued or renewed to a
legal practitioner (who is not enrolled as an advocate under this Act) which
is or purports to be issued or renewed under the provisions of either of the
aforesaid Acts 4[or of the other law] during the period beginning with the Ist
day of December, 1961 and ending with the date on which Chapter IV comes into
force, shall be deemed to have been validly issued or renewed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58A. Special provisions with respect to certain advocates.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all advocates who,
immediately before the 26th day of July, 1948, were entitled to practise in
the High Court in Allahabad or the Chief Court in Oudh and who under the
provisions of the United Provinces High Courts (Amalgamation) Order, 1948 were
recognised as advocates entitled to practise in the new High Court of
Judicature at Allahabad but whose names were not formally entered on the roll
of advocates of that High Court merely by reason of the non-payment of the fee
payable to the Bar Council of the said High Court, and all advocates who were
enrolled as such between the said date and the 26th day of May, 1952 shall,
for the purposes of clause
(a) (1) of section 17 be deemed to be persons who were entered as advocates on
the roll of the said High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of
1926) and every such person may, on an application being made in this behalf,
be admitted as an advocate on the State roll of Uttar Pradesh.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all advocates who,
immediately before the 10th day of October, 1952, were entitled to practise in
the High Court of Hyderabad but whose names were not formally entered on the
roll of advocates of that High Court merely by reason of the non-payment of
the fee payable to the Bar Council of the said High Court shall, for the
purposes of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 17, be deemed to be
person who were entered as advocates on the roll of the said High Court under
the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926, (38 of 1926) and every such person may, on
an application being made in this behalf, be admitted as an advocate on the
State roll of Andhra Pradesh or of Maharashtra.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all advocates who,
immediately before the 1st day of May, 1960, were entitled to practise in the
High Court of Bombay and who applied to get their names entered on the roll of
advocates of the High Court of Gujarat under the provisions of section 8 of
the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), but whose names were not so
entered by reason of the repeal of the said provision shall, for the purposes
of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 17, be deemed to be persons who
were entered as advocates on the roll of the High Court of Gujarat under the
said Act and every such person may, on an application being made in this
behalf, be admitted as an advocate on the State roll of Gujarat.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all persons who
immediately before the Ist day of December, 1961, were advocates on the roll
of the Court of Judicial Commissioner in any Union territory under any law in
force in that territory shall, for the purposes of clause (a) of sub-section
(1) of section 17, be deemed to be persons who were entered as advocates on
the roll of a High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926)
and every such person may, on an application made in this behalf, be admitted
as an advocate on the State roll maintained in respect of that Union
territory.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AA. Special provisions in relation to the Union territory of Pondicherry.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all persons who,
immediately before the date on which the provisions of Chapter III are brought
into force in the Union territory of Pondicherry, were entitled to practise
the profession of law (whether by way of pleading or acting or both) under any
law in force in the said Union territory or who would have been so entitled
had they not been in public service on the said date, shall for the purposes
of clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 17, be deemed to be persons who were entered
as advocates on the roll of a High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act,
1926 (38 of 1926), and every such person may, on an application made in this
behalf within such time as may be specified by the Bar Council of Madras, be
admitted as an advocate on the State roll maintained in respect of the said
Union territory.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person who,
immediately before the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV are brought
into force in the Union territory of Pondicherry, was practising the
profession of law (whether by way of pleading or acting or both or in any
other way) by virtue of the provisions of any law in force in the said Union
territory, who does not elect to be or is not qualified to be, enrolled as an
advocate under sub-section (1), shall, notwithstanding the repeal of the
relevant provisions of such law by the Pondicherry (Extension of Laws) Act,
1968 (26 of 1968), continue to enjoy the same rights as respects practice in
any court or revenue office or before any authority or person and be subject
to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the same authority which he enjoyed, or,
as the case may be, to which he was subject, immediately before the said date
and accordingly the relevant provisions of the law aforesaid shall have effect
in relation to such persons as if they had not been repealed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AB. Special provisions with respect to certain persons enrolled by Mysore*
State Bar Council.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any
judgment, decree or order of any court or any resolution passed or direction
given by the Bar Council of India, every person who was admitted as an
advocate on the State roll by the State Bar Council of Mysore* during the
period beginning with the 28th day of February, 1963, and ending on the 31st
day of March, 1964, on the basis of his having obtained a certificate of
pleadership from the High Court of Mysore*, shall, save as otherwise provided,
be deemed to have been validly admitted as an advocate on that State roll and
accordingly entitled to practise the profession of law (whether by way of
pleading or acting or both): Provided that where any such person elected to be
enrolled as an advocate on the roll of any other State Bar Council, his name
shall be deemed to have been struck off the roll of the State Bar Council of
Mysore* from the date he was enrolled by the other State Bar Council: Provided
further that the seniority of such person, whether his name is borne on the
State roll of the State Bar Council or Mysore*, or on the State roll of any
other Bar Council, shall, for the purposes of clause (d) of sub-section (3) of
section 17, be determined by reckoning the 16th day of May, 1964, as the date
of admission.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AC. Special provisions with respect to certain persons enrolled by Uttar
Pradesh State Bar Council.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or
any judgment, decree or order of any court, every person who was enrolled as
an advocate by the High Court during the period beginning with the 2nd day of
January, 1962 and ending on the 25th day of May, 1962 and was subsequently
admitted as an advocate on the State roll by the State Bar Council of Uttar
Pradesh shall be deemed to have been validly admitted as an advocate on that
State roll from the date of his enrolment by the High Court and accordingly
entitled to practise the profession of law (whether by way of pleading or
acting or both).]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AD. Special provisions with respect to certain persons migrating to
India.—Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of the provisions of the Legal
Practitioners Act, 1879 (18 of 1879), or of any other law relating to the
admission and enrolment of legal practitioners (hereafter in this section
referred to as such Act or law), every person who migrates to the territory of
India from any area which, before the 15th day of August, 1947, was comprised
within India as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935, and who has,
before such migration, been a pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent in any such
area under any law in force therein, may be admitted and enrolled under the
relevant provisions of such Act or law as a pleader, mukhtar or, as the case
may be, revenue agent, if he—
(a) makes an application for the purpose to the appropriate authority under
such Act or law; and
(b) is a citizen of India and fulfils other conditions, if any, specified in
this behalf by the appropriate authority aforesaid, and notwithstanding the
repeal by this Act of the relevant provisions of such Act or law, every
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent so enrolled shall have the same rights as
respects practice in any court or revenue office or before any other authority
or person and be subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the same
authority to which he would be subject under the relevant provisions of such
Act or law as if they had been repealed and accordingly, those provisions
shall have effect in relation to such persons.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AE. Special provisions in relation to the Union territory of Goa, Daman
and Diu.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all persons who,
immediately before the date on which the provisions of Chapter III are brought
into force in the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, were entitled to
practise the profession of law (whether by way of pleading or acting or both)
under any law in force in the said Union territory or who would have been so
entitled had they not been in public service on the said date, shall for the
purpose of clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 17, be deemed to be persons who were entered
as advocates on the roll of a High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act,
1926 (38 of 1926), and every such person may, on an application made in this
behalf within such time as may be specified by the Bar Council of Maharashtra,
be admitted as an advocate on the State roll maintained in respect of the said
Union territory: Provided that the provisions of this sub-section shall not
apply to any person who, on the date of the application aforesaid, was not a
citizen of India.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person who
immediately before the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV are brought
into force in the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, was practising the
profession of law (whether by way of pleading or acting or both or in any
other way) by virtue of the provisions of any law in force in the said Union
territory, or who does not elect to be or is not qualified to be enrolled as
an advocate under sub-section (1), shall, notwithstanding the repeal by this
Act of the relevant provisions of such law, continues to enjoy the same rights
as respects practice in any court or revenue office or before any other
authority or person and be, subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the
same authority which he enjoyed or, as the case may be, to which he was
subject, immediately before the said date and accordingly the relevant
provisions of the law aforesaid shall have effect in relation to such person
as if they had not been repealed.
(3) On the date on which this Act or any part thereof comes into force in the
Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu, the law in force in that Union
territory which corresponds to this Act or such part and which does not stand
repealed by virtue of the provisions of section 50 of this Act, shall also
stand repealed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AF. Special provisions in relation to Jammu and Kashmir.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all advocates who,
immediately before the date on which the provision of Chapter III are brought
into force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, were entitled to practise in the
High Court of that State, or who would have been so entitled had they not been
in public service on the said date, shall, for the purpose of the clause
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 17, be deemed to be persons who were entered
as advocates on the roll of a High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act,
1926 (38 of 1926), and every such person may, on an application made in this
behalf within such time as may be specified by the Bar Council of India, be
admitted as an advocate on the State roll maintained in respect of the said
State.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person who,
immediately before the date on which the provision of Chapter III are brought
into force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, was entitled otherwise than as
an advocate to practise the profession of law (whether by way of pleading or
acting or both) by virtue of the provisions of any law in force in the said
State, or who would have been so entitled had he not been in public service on
the said date, may be admitted as an advocate on the State roll maintained in
respect of the said State, if he—
(i) makes an application for such enrolment in accordance with the provisions
of this Act; and
(ii) fulfils the conditions specified in clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f) of sub-
section (1) of section 24.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, every person who,
immediately before the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV are brought
into force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, was practising the profession of
law (whether by way of pleading or acting or both or in any other way) by
virtue of the provisions of any law in force therein, or who does not elect to
be or is not qualified to be enrolled as an advocate under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2), shall, notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of the relevant
provisions of such law, continue to enjoy the same rights as respects practice
in any court of revenue office or before any other authority or person and be
subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the same authority which he
enjoyed, or, as the case may be, to which he was subject, immediately before
the said date and accordingly the relevant provisions of the law aforesaid
shall have effect in relation to such persons as if they had not been
repealed.
(4) On the date on which this Act or any part thereof comes into force in the
State of Jammu and Kashmir, the law in force in that State which corresponds
to this Act or such part thereof which does not stand repealed by virtue of
the provisions of section 50 of this Act, shall also stand repealed.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58AG. Special provisions in relation to articled clerks.— Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, every person who, immediately before the 31st
day of December, 1976 has commenced his articleship and passed the Preliminary
examination, for the purpose of enrolment as an attorney of the High Court at
Calcutta in accordance with the rules made under sub-section (2) of section
34, before the omission of that sub-section by Advocates (Amendment) Act 1976,
(107 of 1976), may be admitted as an advocate on the State roll if he—
(i) passes, on or before the 31st day of December, 1980,—
(a) the Final Examination in a case where such person has, before the 31st day
of December, 1976, passed the Intermediate examination,
(b) the Intermediate and the Final examinations in any other case.
Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, the High Court at Calcutta may
prescribe such rules as may be necessary under sub-section (2) of section 34,
specifying the nature of the examinations and any other matter relating
thereto;
(ii) makes an application for such enrolment in accordance with the provisions
of this Act; and
(iii) fulfils the conditions specified in clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f) of
sub-section (1) of section 24.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[58B. Special provision relating to certain disciplinary proceedings.—
(1) As from the Ist day of September, 1963 every proceeding in respect of any
disciplinary matter in relation to an existing advocate of a High Court shall,
save as provided in the first proviso to sub-section (2), be disposed of by
the State Bar Council in relation to that High Court, as if the existing
advocate had been enrolled as an advocate on its roll.
(2) If immediately before the said date, there is any proceeding in respect of
any disciplinary matter in relation to an existing advocate pending before any
High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), such
proceeding shall stand transferred to the State Bar Council in relation to
that High Court, as if it were a proceeding pending before the corresponding
Bar Council under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 56: Provided that
where in respect of any such proceeding the High Court has received the
finding of a Tribunal constituted under section 11 of the Indian Bar Councils
Act, 1926 (38 of 1926), the High Court shall dispose of the case and it shall
be lawful for the High Court to exercise for the purpose of all powers
conferred on it under section 12 of the said Act as if that section had not
been repealed: Provided further that where the High Court has referred back
any case for further inquiry under sub-section (4) of section 12 of the said
Act, the proceeding shall stand transferred to the State Bar Council in
relation to the High Court as if it were proceeding before a corresponding Bar
Council under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 56.
(3) If immediately before the said date there is any proceeding in respect of
any disciplinary matter pending in relation to any pleader, vakil, mukhtar or
attorney, who has been enrolled as an advocate on any State roll under the
Act, such proceeding shall stand transferred to the State Bar Council on the
roll of which he has been enrolled and be dealt with under this Act as if it
were a proceeding arising against him thereunder.
(4) In this section “existing advocate” means a person who was enrolled as an
advocate on the roll of any High Court under the Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926
(38 of 1926) and who, at the time when any proceeding in respect of any
disciplinary matter is initiated against him, is not enrolled as an advocate
on a State roll under this Act.
(5) The provisions of this section shall have effect, notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[59. Removal of difficulties.—
(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
particularly in relation to the transition from the enactments repealed by
this Act to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with
the purposes of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty.
(2) An order under sub-section (1) may be made so as to have retrospective
effect from a date not earlier than the 1st day of December, 1961.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
1[60. Powers of Central Government to make rules.—
(1) Until rules in respect of any matter under this Act are made by a State
Bar Council and approved by the Bar Council of India, the power to make rules
in respect of that matter shall be exercisable by the Central Government.
(2) The Central Government after consultation with the Bar Council of India
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, may make rules under sub-section
(1) either for any State Bar Council or generally for all State Bar Councils
and the rules so made shall have effect, notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act.
(3) Where in respect of any matter any rules made by the Central Government
under this section for any State Bar Council, and in respect of the same
matter, rules are made by the State Bar Council and approved by the Bar
Council of India, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that the rules made by it in respect of such matter shall
cease to be in force in relation to the Bar Council with effect from such date
as may be specified in the notification and on the issue of such notification,
the rules made by the Central Government shall, accordingly, cease to be in
force except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the said
date.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961 THE SCHEDULE [See section 50(5)] Repeal of certain
enactments Short title Extent of repeal 1. The Legal Practitioners (Women)
Act, 1923 The whole. (23 of 1923). 2. The Legal Practitioners (Fees) Act, 1926
The whole. (21 of 1926). 3. The States Reorganization Act, 1956 Section 53.
(37 of 1956). 4. The Bombay Reorganization Act, 1960 Section 31. (11 of 1960).
—————
1\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
2\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 5, for sub-sections (1) and (2) (w.e.f.
26-12-1993).
3\. Section 10A renumbered as section 10B by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 10 (w.e.f.
31-1-1974).
4\. Sub-sections (3) and (4) subs. by Act 63 of 1973, sec. 11, for sub-section
(3) (w.e.f.31-1-1974). tc "1. Sub-sections (3) and (4) subs. by Act 63 of
1973, sec. 11, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974)."
5\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 12, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
6\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
7\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 13, for “experience and standing at the Bar”
(w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
8\. Added by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
9\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 14, for “and who, within the prescribed
time” (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
10\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 9, for “and such seniority shall be
determined” (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
11\. Added by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
12\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 15, for section 20 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
13\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 16, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
14\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 17, for section 22 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
15\. Ins. by Act 47 of 1980, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 29-11-1980).
16\. Subs. by Act 47 of 1980, sec. 3, for the brackets, fiqures and words “(2)
and (3)” (w.e.f. 29-11-1980).
17\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 18, for “28th day of February, 1963”
(w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
18\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 18, for clause (iii) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
19\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
20\. Ins. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 7(i) (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
21\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
22\. Added by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
23\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 20, for section 26A (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
Earlier section 26A was inserted by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 15 (w.e.f.
16-5-1964).
24\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 21, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
25\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
26\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 22, for “common roll” (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
27\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
28\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1977, sec. 6 (w.r.e.f. 31-10-1977). Earlier sub-section
(2) was omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
29\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
30\. The words “, if it does not summarily reject the complaint,” omitted by
Act 60 of 1973, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974)
31\. The words “on the common roll” omitted by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 25 (w.e.f.
31-1-1974).
32\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 25, for “of its own motion” (w.e.f.
31-1-1974).
33\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
34\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
35\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 18, for “under sub-section (3) of section
35” (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
36\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 27 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
37\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 28 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
38\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 29, for section 39 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
39\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 29, for section 39 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
40\. Section 40 renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 60 of
1973, sec. 30 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
41\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 30 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
42\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 31 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
43\. The words “or the common roll, as the case may be” omitted by Act 60 of
1973, sec. 31 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
44\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974), sections
345 (1), 346 and 349.
45\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 32 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
46\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
47\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 34 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
48\. Earlier section 46 was substituted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 9 (w.e.f.
15-10-1976).
49\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 35 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
50\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 36 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
51\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
52\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 37 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
53\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
54\. Section 49 renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 60 of
1973, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
55\. Clauses (a) to (ah) subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 20, for clause (a)
(w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
56\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
57\. Subs. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 39, for sub-section (5) (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
72\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1977, sec. 7 (w.r.e.f. 31-10-1977).
73\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
74\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
75\. Ins. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 14-9-1962).
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
from any University established by law in India;
(i) “Legal practitioner” means an advocate 6[or vakil] or any High Court, a
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;
(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) “roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained under this Act;
(l) “State” does not include a Union territory;
(m) “State Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under section 3;
(n) “State roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a State
Bar Council under section 17. 7[(2) Any reference in this Act to a law which
is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in the Union territory of
Goa*, Daman and Diu, shall, in relation to that State or that territory, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State or that territory, as the case may be.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
3. State Bar Councils.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council—
(a) for each of States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, 1[Jammu and
Kashmir], 2[Jharkhand] 3[Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh], 4[***], 5[***],
6[Karnataka], Orissa, Rajasthan 7[Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal], to be known
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
from any University established by law in India;
(i) “Legal practitioner” means an advocate 6[or vakil] or any High Court, a
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;
(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) “roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained under this Act;
(l) “State” does not include a Union territory;
(m) “State Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under section 3;
(n) “State roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a State
Bar Council under section 17. 7[(2) Any reference in this Act to a law which
is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in the Union territory of
Goa*, Daman and Diu, shall, in relation to that State or that territory, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State or that territory, as the case may be.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
3. State Bar Councils.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council—
(a) for each of States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, 1[Jammu and
Kashmir], 2[Jharkhand] 3[Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh], 4[***], 5[***],
6[Karnataka], Orissa, Rajasthan 7[Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal], to be known
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
from any University established by law in India;
(i) “Legal practitioner” means an advocate 6[or vakil] or any High Court, a
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;
(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) “roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained under this Act;
(l) “State” does not include a Union territory;
(m) “State Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under section 3;
(n) “State roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a State
Bar Council under section 17. 7[(2) Any reference in this Act to a law which
is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in the Union territory of
Goa*, Daman and Diu, shall, in relation to that State or that territory, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State or that territory, as the case may be.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
3. State Bar Councils.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council—
(a) for each of States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, 1[Jammu and
Kashmir], 2[Jharkhand] 3[Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh], 4[***], 5[***],
6[Karnataka], Orissa, Rajasthan 7[Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal], to be known
as the Bar Council of that State; 8[(b) for the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura to be known as the
Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and
Arunachal Pradesh;]
(c) for the State of Kerala and 9[the Union territory of Lakshadweep], to be
known as the Bar Council of Kerala; 10[(cc) for the 11[State of Tamil Nadu]
and the Union territory of Pondicherry to be known as the Bar Council of
Madras*;] 12[(ccc) for the States of Maharashtra and Goa, and the Union
territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, to be known as the
Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa;] 13[(d) for the States of Punjab and
Haryana, and the Union territory of Chandigarh, to be known as the Bar Council
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
(h) “law graduate” means a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree in law
from any University established by law in India;
(i) “Legal practitioner” means an advocate 6[or vakil] or any High Court, a
pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;
(j) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) “roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained under this Act;
(l) “State” does not include a Union territory;
(m) “State Bar Council” means a Bar Council constituted under section 3;
(n) “State roll” means a roll of advocates prepared and maintained by a State
Bar Council under section 17. 7[(2) Any reference in this Act to a law which
is not in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or in the Union territory of
Goa*, Daman and Diu, shall, in relation to that State or that territory, be
construed as a reference to the corresponding law, if any, in force in that
State or that territory, as the case may be.]
THE ADVOCATES ACT, 1961
3. State Bar Councils.—
(1) There shall be a Bar Council—
(a) for each of States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, 1[Jammu and
Kashmir], 2[Jharkhand] 3[Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh], 4[***], 5[***],
6[Karnataka], Orissa, Rajasthan 7[Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal], to be known
as the Bar Council of that State; 8[(b) for the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura to be known as the
Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and
Arunachal Pradesh;]
(c) for the State of Kerala and 9[the Union territory of Lakshadweep], to be
known as the Bar Council of Kerala; 10[(cc) for the 11[State of Tamil Nadu]
and the Union territory of Pondicherry to be known as the Bar Council of
Madras*;] 12[(ccc) for the States of Maharashtra and Goa, and the Union
territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, to be known as the
Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa;] 13[(d) for the States of Punjab and
Haryana, and the Union territory of Chandigarh, to be known as the Bar Council
58\. Subs. by Act 70 of 1993, sec. 9, for “act” (w.e.f. 26-12-1993).
59\. The words “the Bar Council of India and” omitted by Act 21 of 1964, sec.
22 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
60\. The words “nominated and” omitted by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
30-3-1962).
61\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 107 of 1976, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-1-1977).
62\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 23, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
63\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
64\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1962, sec. 3, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 16-8-1961).
65\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 16-5-1964).
66\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1968, sec. 3 and Sch.—Part I (w.e.f. 10-6-1968).
67\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1968, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-6-1968).
68\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
69\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
70\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
71\. Ins. by Act 60 of 1973, sec. 40 (w.e.f. 31-1-1974).
