Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Hyderabad
Hyundai Motor India Engineering ... vs Ito, Ward-2(3), Hyd, Hyderabad on 21
December, 2016
              IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
               HYDERABAD BENCHES "A", HYDERABAD
           BEFORE SHRI D. MANMOHAN, VICE PRESIDENT
                             AND
           SHRI B. RAMAKOTAIAH, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
       ITA No.      Asst. Year         Appellant             Respondent
    128/Hyd/2016     2011-12      Hyundai Motor India       The Income Tax
                                   Engineering Private          Officer,
                                        Limited,              Ward-2(3),
                                     HYDERABAD               HYDERABAD
                                  [PAN: AABCH7867C]
    216/Hyd/2016      2011-12       The Income Tax       Hyundai Motor India
                                        Officer,          Engineering Private
                                       Ward-2(3),              Limited,
                                     HYDERABAD              HYDERABAD
                                                         [PAN: AABCH7867C]
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
             For Revenue        : Shri S.V.S.S. Prasad, CIT-DR
                  Date of Hearing               : 27-09-2016
                  Date of Pronouncement         : 21-12-2016
                                     ORDER
PER B. RAMAKOTAIAH, A.M. :
These are cross-appeals by Assessee and Revenue against the order(s) of the
Assessing Officer (AO) u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA(4) r.w.s. 144C of the Income
Tax Act [Act].
2\. Briefly stated, assessee Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited
was incorporated in November, 2006 as a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor India
Ltd., under the Companies Act, 1956. Assessee is a 100% Export Oriented Unit
and is registered under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) :- 2 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Scheme of the Ministry of Information
Technology, Government of India. Hyundai Motor India Ltd., itaelf is a
subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company, Korea [Associated Enterprise (AE)] 2.1.
Assessee is involved in providing support services in connection with CAE/CAD
modeling and iterative simulation. It receives the basic design from its group
company with respect to CAD modeling and makes a 3D CAD modeling data of
vehicle components using CAD software tools. Assessee is a routing support
service provider and it assumes less than normal risk associated with carrying
out such business. The International transactions reported by assessee are as
under S.No. Name of the Nature of the Amount Associated international
transactions in Rs.
                Enterprise
    1.      Hyundai       Motor   Engineering/Consulting             43,57,37,674
            Company, Korea        Engineering Services/ IT
    2.      Kia           Motor   enabled Services (ITeS)
            Corporation, Korea                                       20,52,60,386
                                Purchase of computers                 2,64,56,224
    3.      Hyundai Autoever Purchase       of  Security                   64,667
            Corporation, Korea equipment
                                Annual License fee for                 98,95,527
                                software
                                Purchase of computer                   23,07,715
                                Software
                                Reimbursement         of               11,08,347
                                expenses
    4.      Hyundai       Motor Reimbursement         of              2,72,10,590
            Company, Korea      expenses
3\. Assessee has selected seven companies as comparables in its Transfer
Pricing documentation whose arithmetic mean was arrived at 7.35% as against
the margin of assessee at 9.02%. As assessee has international transactions
with its Associated :- 3 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Enterprise [AE], a
reference u/s. 92CA was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer [TPO] for
determining Arm's Length Price [ALP]. The TPO vide his order dt. 30-09-2015
determined the adjustment in ALP at Rs. 11,92,51,438/-. In doing so, the TPO
rejected assessee's TP study and has selected his own filters and after
issuing show cause notice to assessee, has selected thirteen comparable
companies whose arithmetic mean was determined at 25.73%. After providing the
working capital adjustment, the adjusted arithmetic mean was determined at
24.32%. On the operating cost of Rs. 65.81 Crores, the said adjustment was
proposed. The comparables selected by the TPO and the margins are as under:
         S.No               Company Name                       Unadjusted
                                                                 Margins
                                                             AY. 2011-12 (%)
           1.    Accentia Technologies Ltd.,                            29.29
           2.    Acropetal Technologies Limited                         15.57
           3.    Cosmic Global Limited                                    9.81
           4.    Crossdomain Solutions Pvt. Ltd.,                       25.04
           5.    e4e Healthcare                                         16.60
           6.    Eclerx Services Ltd.,                                  69.78
           7.    Informed Technologies Ltd.,                              9.24
           8.    Infosys BPO                                            18.85
           9.    Jeevan Scientific Technologies Ltd.,                   28.93
          10.    Jindal Intellicome Ltd.,                               13.54
          11.    Mastiff Tech Pvt Ltd.,                                 21.78
          12.    Microgentic Systems Ltd.,                             -0.22%
          13.    TCS E-serve Ltd.,                                      76.28
                 Arithmetic mean                                        25.73
4\. Accordingly, a draft assessment order was made. Aggrieved by the draft
assessment order, assessee approached the Dispute Resolution Panel [DRP]-1,
Bangalore and DRP vide its order dt. 03-11-2015, directed to determine the ALP
according to its directions. The DRP has excluded certain comparables like
Infosys BPO, Acropetal Technologies Ltd., Jeevan Scientific :- 4 -: I.T.A.
Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Technologies Ltd., e4e Healthcare, TCS E-serve Ltd.,
and Mastiff Tech Pvt Ltd. It also gave certain other directions. Revised ALP
addition was determined at Rs. 10,39,16,986/- and assessment order has been
passed accordingly. Assessee is aggrieved on the above said TP adjustment and
also on two other corporate issues, whereas Revenue is aggrieved on the
directions of the DRP excluding certain comparables.
5\. These issues were discussed in detail in this order, after considering the
arguments of the Ld. Counsel for assessee and Ld. CIT-DR and also perusing the
written submissions placed by assessee and Revenue. It is to be placed on
record that on completion of hearing on 27-09-2016, Ld. CIT-DR wanted to file
written submissions for which time was permitted up to 05-10- 2016\. However,
vide letter dt. 04-10-2016, the office of the CIT-DR sought further time of
another two weeks to furnish, whereas the JCIT(TP) wanted time up to second
week of November, 2016. Finally, the written submissions submitted by ITO,
Ward-2(3) / DCIT, TPO-2 were placed on record with a covering letter dt.
11-11- 2016\. In the written submissions, the officers have reiterated their
submissions as considered by the TPO and the DRP only.
Assessee's Appeal in ITA No. 128/Hyd/2016:
6\. Aggrieved on the orders of the DRP/TPO, assessee has raised various
grounds running from 1 to 20 and an additional ground Ground No. 16A on
working capital adjustment which has arisen consequent to the directions of
the DRP in the final order.
:- 5 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
7\. Ld. Counsel at the time of arguments has submitted that Ground Nos. 1, 2,
3 & 20 are general in nature along with Ground Nos. 13 to 15. Ground No. 16
pertains to adjustment of (+/-) 5% as provided in second proviso to Section
92C(1) of the Act. Ground Nos. 17 to 19 pertains to corporate issues.
Transfer Pricing Issues:
8\. The TP issues are covered from Ground No. 4 to 12 and additional ground
No. 16A which are considered as under:
Ground No. 4. "That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP erred in considering the upfront fee amounting to Rs. 6,31,227 paid for
obtaining the loan for capital purpose as a part of operating cost, while
computing the net margin of the Appellant under Transactional Net Margin
Method ('TNMM')".
8.1. The facts leading to the above is that the TPO has considered other
Finance charges of Rs. 6,31,227/- as 'operating cost'. It was contended that
these charges are in the nature of up- front fees for obtaining loan which was
used for capital purposes hence, the same should not be considered as
operating in nature. The DRP has directed the AO to verify from the
computation of total income as to whether the above expenses have been
disallowed treating the same as capital in nature and if so, directing the AO
to reduce the same from the operating cost. The DRP also directed that if it
is claimed and allowed as 'revenue expenditure', it has to be considered as
part of operating cost.
8.2. After considering the submissions by assessee and Revenue, we are of the
opinion that there is no need to interfere :- 6 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216
/Hyd/2016 with the directions of the DRP on the issue. Whether the up-front
fees paid is part of the operating cost or not is a factual matter to be
verified and therefore, the ground does not deserve any merit at this end.
Accordingly, the same is rejected.
Ground No.5. That on the facts and the circumstances of the case and in law,
the AO/DRP erred in accepting the following comparable companies as selected
by the TPO:
> a) Accentia Technologies Limited;
> b) Eclerx Services Limited; and
> c) Crossdomain Solutions Private Limited.
Ground No. 6. That on the facts and the circumstances of the case and in law,
the AO/DRP erred in not following the order of Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate
Tribunal in Appellant's own case for AY 2008-09, AY 2009-10 and AY 2010-11.
9\. Assessee is contesting the selection of the following three companies:
> i) Accentia Technologies Limited;
> ii) Eclerx Services Limited; and
> iii) Cross domain Solutions Private Limited.
9.1. Assessee has objected to the above companies stating that they are
functionally different but DRP has rejected them.
9.2. Ld. Counsel submitted that each of the company cannot be selected for the
following reasons:
i) Accentia Technologies Limited;
9.3. It was submitted that Accentia Technologies Limited cannot be considered
as a comparable based on the functional dissimilarity as the said company is
into diversified outsourcing services. It has relied on annual report for AY.
2010-11 showing :- 7 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 that assessee is having
multi location, diversified knowledge process outsourcing company and also it
has products such as instaKare and instaweb which makes the company a product
based company as well. Not only that, it was also submitted that there was no
segmental information provided by the Accentia Technologies Limited in its
annual report and margin calculated was done at over all entity level, whereas
it was involved in various activities like medical transcription, billing and
collections and income from coding etc. It was also further submitted that
there are extraordinary events during the year like acquiring companies in USA
such as GSR Physicians Billing Services INC, GSR Systems INC and Denmed Inc.
It was also submitted that the said company has shown abnormal growth pattern
due to acquisition and is a super normal profit company. It also has
Intellectual property rights and accordingly, functionally different from
assessee- company.
9.4. It was submitted that in the case of Exevo India Pvt. Ltd., Vs. ITO in
ITA No.907/Del/2016 (AY.2011-12) dt. 25-07- 2016, the above said company was
excluded from the ITES category. Like-wise, it is also excluded in Orange
Business Services for AY. 2011-12 on account of functional differences, good
will and extraordinary events. It was further submitted that the above company
was also rejected in assessee's own case for AY. 2008-09 to 2010-11.
9.5. Ld. DR, however, relied on the orders of the TPO and DRP to submit that
company is a comparable one.
:- 8 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 9.6. We have considered the rival
contentions and perused the details placed on record. There is justification
in assessee's contentions as the above said company is involved in
multifarious activities including products and IPR rights. Consequently, it
cannot be considered as functionally similar to assessee-company which is
categorised as a KPO company, being in engineering business process services.
The Co-ordinate Bench in the case of Exevo India Pvt. Ltd., Vs. ITO in ITA
No.907/Del/2016 (AY.2011-
12) dt. 25-07-2016 (supra) has considered this comparable and excluded by
stating as under:
"Accentia Technologies Ltd.
4.1. Ld.TPO considered this as a comparable. Assessee objects to the
compatibility of this company is due to functional incompatibility. Ld.AR
submitted that this company was having supernormal profit and is engaged in
providing KPO services which is distinct from the nature of services provided
by the assessee before us. He has placed reliance upon the decision of
coordinate benches of this tribunal in the case of M/s.Capital IQ Information
Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in ITA No. 1961/H/2011 and Symphony
Marketing Solutions India Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No. 1316/BANG/2012, wherein the
dissimilarities between KPO services and BPO service has been drawn up. He
further contended similar view has been upheld by the Hon'ble jurisdictional
High Court in the case of Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd., vs. CIT in ITA
102/2015.
6.2. Ld. DR, however, referred to extracts from the ld.TPO's order to submit
that Accentia Technologies Ltd. is comparable with assessee. The ld. DR relied
upon order dated 27.04.2015 passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
Chris Capital Investment versus DCIT reported in I.T.A.No. No.417/2014,
wherein Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that:
> ".... the mere fact that an entity makes high / extremely high profits /
> losses does not ipso facto, lead to its exclusion from the list of
> comparables for the purpose of determination of ALP. In such circumstances
> enquiry under Rule 10B(3) ought to be carried out, to determine as to
> whether the material differences between the assessee and the said entity
> can be eliminated. Unless such differences cannot be eliminated, the entity
> should be included as a comparable."
> :- 9 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 6.3. After considering the rival
> submissions and pursuing the relevant material on record, we find that
> functionally, this company is into development of software products for
> healthcare. It is submitted by the ld.AR that Accentia Technologies Ltd is
> engaged into diversified activities such as Knowledge Process
> outsourcing(KPO), Legal process outsourcing(LPO), Data process
> Outsourcing(DPO), high end software services. It is submitted by the ld.AR
> that segmental information in respect of this company is not available. We
> find that the Ld. TPO had adopted this company as a comparable as the Ld.
> TPO is of the view that the services rendered by this comparable are in the
> nature of BPO or back office services and that nothing he is earned from
> sale of products.
We have perused the annual reports of this company and have observed that
Accentia owned a brand and goodwill on account of acquisition/amalgamation of
a defendant in force. Further it is observed that this company is providing
services in the field of medical transcription billing and collections income
from coding etc for which complete segmental information are not available.
In our considered opinion this company is functionally dissimilar to that of
the assessee. Accordingly we direct the Ld. TPO to exclude this company from
the list of comparables".
Accordingly, respectfully following the above, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude
the above company from the list of comparables.
ii) Eclerx Services Limited;
9.7. It was submitted that this company is a Knowledge Process Outsourcing
Company and as per the annual report of the company, it is engaged in the
provision of services in business units of financial services and sale and
marketing support. It was also further submitted that there was an
extraordinary events as a subsidiary company of Eclerx Services Limited was
wound-up. It has super normal profits during the year and cannot be compared
to assessee-company. It was further submitted that this company was rejected
in assessee's own case for AY. 2008-09 to 2010-11 on :- 10 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 &
216 /Hyd/2016 functionally dissimilar and peculiar economic circumstances. Ld.
Counsel relied on the orders in earlier year.
9.8. We have perused the rival contentions and the documents placed on record.
Assessee raised the similar contentions before the DRP and DRP vide it order
in pg. 12 has considered as under:
"Having considered the submission, we are of the view that the engineering
design services provided by the assessee is comparable to the services
provided by the above company. Further, in the safe harbor guidelines issued
by the CBDT, engineering design services have been considered under KPO.
Further, the objection in regard to the exclusion of the company due to high
profit is not found acceptable due to the detailed reasons given in paragraph
2.6 of this order. There is no extraordinary event have been pointed out by
the assessee similar to the earlier years in which the Hon'ble ITAT directed
to exclude the company due to such event. Further, it appears to us that the
high end function of the company were not brought to the notice of the Hon'ble
ITAT, which resulted in exclusion of the above company. Accordingly,
considering the function of the assessee, we are of the view that there is no
infirmity in inclusion of the above company in comparables".
9.9. We notice that this company is categorised as KPO company and the
services are similar being provided to the services being provided by the
above company. Further, as seen from the so called extraordinary event, it is
noticed that the said company has wound-up a subsidiary company w.e.f.
29-03-2011. Since it has not acquired the company whose turnover is included
in assessee-company but only wound-up a dormant company, we are of the opinion
that it does not have any bearing on assessee's operating results. Super
normal profits cannot be a basis for exclusion of a company and since the DRP
has considered the objections, we agree with the findings of DRP. Even though
the company was excluded in earlier year, we are of the opinion that :- 11 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 each year is to be considered separately on the
basis of the facts and in TP matters the facts will vary from year to year.
Accordingly, we are of the opinion that this company cannot be excluded. To
that extent, the ground raised by assessee is rejected.
iii) Crossdomain Solutions Private Limited:
9.10. With reference to this company, it was submitted that the company is
functionally dissimilar as it has a diversified Knowledge Process Outsourcing
Company providing services in insurance, health care, HR and accounting
domains. Company also offers business excellence market research and data
analytics and IT services. It was also submitted that the company is engaged
in software development activities. It was also submitted that in assessee's
own case in AY. 2008-09, this company was rejected by the ITAT due to the fact
that it has diversified activity and further, segmental information was not
available. It was also contended that the margin calculated by the TPO is
incorrect and furnished a revised computation. The issue was whether the bad
debts were non-operating expenses and TPO has not followed the guidelines on
the issue.
9.11. We have considered the rival contentions and perused the documents
placed on record. Assessee has raised the same objections before DRP which
gave a finding that the engineering design services being rendered by assessee
are akin to KPO services of the above company. It further considered that
functional comparability need to be decided on the basis of the information
available in the annual report and not based on the :- 12 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 &
216 /Hyd/2016 website information which may vary and may not be reliable. It
was further noted that in the case of M/s. Excellence Data Research Pvt. Ltd.,
in ITA No. 159/Hyd/2015, the ITAT rejected the objection of assessee for
exclusion of above company noting that the annual report refers only service
and is in the pay roll service activity. Thus, stating DRP rejected assessee's
objections. We do not find any reason to interfere with the said objections as
the very basis of the contentions are based on the website information but not
on the annual report. However, the DRP has directed the TPO to verify the
margin which assessee submits that has not been considered. Therefore, while
retaining the company as a comparable one, we direct the AO/TPO to examine the
contentions with reference to margin computation of the above said company
after giving due opportunity to assessee to make submissions. This issue is
considered partly allowed.
9.12. In the result, grounds are considered partly allowed.
Ground No. 7. That on the facts and the circumstances of the case and in law,
the AO/DRP erred in confirming the TPO's stand of treating the provision for
bad and doubtful debts and bad debts written off as non- operating expenses
for the purpose of margin computation of comparable companies as selected by
TPO.
10\. This ground pertains to the issue of provision for bad and doubtful debts
and bad debts written off which should be considered as operating in nature
while computing the margin of comparable companies. This is a general ground
pertaining to computation of margin of the comparable companies. It was the
submission that the provision for bad and doubtful debts and bad debts written
off are part of its operating expenditure as an entity :- 13 -: I.T.A. Nos.128
& 216 /Hyd/2016 undertakes marketing and creates a customer base for itself.
Some of them fail to make the payment due to which the provision is created in
the books of account. Since this provision is in relation to the services
rendered, this expenditure is an operational expenditure. It was submitted
that this contention, even though was accepted by the DRP in its various
findings, the TPO has not acted upon the same.
10.1. After considering assessee's objections and perusing the orders of the
DRP, we are of the opinion that the DRP has correctly directed the TPO with
reference to the above issue. The directions of the DRP are as under:
"Having considered the submissions, in our view provision for bad & doubtful
debts is not made in all the cases and further, the provision is not an
ascertained liability. Therefore, there is no debate here as to whether the
provisions for bad debts is "operating in nature" or not? As per the Act, it
is permitted to be debited to the expenses. The issue here is while
considering comparative analysis for TP purpose, the provision of this sort,
which has nexus to the performance of the assessee for the previous years, if
allowed to remain debited to the books of the relevant FY, creates
complications when considered for comparative analysis and creates
distortions. This provision as the name suggests is a provision and allowed to
be treated as bad by the assessee per its own assessment and it may be
realizable subsequently and reversed. This relates to the sales accounted in
the earlier years. Essentially, this provisions refers to the past performance
of the company. Even otherwise, for the comparability analysis, if such
provisions are excluded from the tested parties as well as the comparables,
the error in the margins of the relevant year are taken care of. Therefore, we
do not find any infirmity in the approach of the TPO.
However, it is noticed by us that in the case of Jindal Intellicom Ltd., on
perusal of the Annual Report of the company, it is noticed that the TPO has
not reduced the provision for bad & doubtful debts of Rs. 79,35,297/- from the
operating cost. Considering the same, we direct the AO to rework the margin of
the above company".
:- 14 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 We do not find any reason to interfere
with the directions of the DRP. However, TPO is directed to re-workout the
margins considering that annual report of each of the companies which are
being objected to by assessee. AO/TPO is directed accordingly. The ground is
considered allowed.
Ground No. 8. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP erred in excluding the following companies, viz., a. e4e Healthcare
Business Services Private Limited; b. Mastiff Tech Private Limited.
Ground No. 9. That the AO/DRP erred in excluding the companies without
providing any show cause notice or a reasonable opportunity of being heard to
the Appellant, completely disregarding the provisions of the Act and in utter
disregard to the principles of natural justice.
Ground No. 10. That the AO/DRP erred in excluding the companies not objected,
when the AO/TPO had already examined and decided the issues based on the facts
and material available on record.
11\. As can be seen from the grounds, the two companies are excluded by the
DRP, even though these are not objected to by assessee and Revenue also has
raised objections in their grounds. Considering that TPO has included them as
comparable companies and assessee has not objected to them and also on the
fact that Revenue is raising the ground on the issue before us, we are of the
opinion that DRP has wrongly excluded the above two companies on the reason of
inconsistency in accounting and huge variation in the margin due to
uncertainty of the receivables. These cannot be considered as a valid reason
for excluding the company when all other filters have been compared and
accepted by the TPO. In view of this, we modify the order of the DRP and
direct the AO/TPO to consider these companies as comparable companies.
However, if :- 15 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 there is any objection
with reference to the margins as considered in Ground No. 7 with reference to
inclusion of bad and doubtful debts/bad debts written off, the TPO is directed
to work out the correct margin after giving due opportunity to assessee.
Grounds of assessee are allowed.
Ground No. 11. That on the facts and circumstances of the case or in law,
AO/DRP erred in confirming the rejection of following comparable companies, as
rejected by the TPO:
> a) Microland Limited;
> b) R Systems International Limited;
> c) Accuspeed engineering Limited; and
> d) CSS Technology Limited.
12\. This ground pertains to rejection of comparables selected/proposed by
assessee. In this ground, assessee is requesting for inclusion of the
following four companies selected by it.
i. Microland Limited;
ii. R Systems International Limited;
          iii. Accuspeed engineering Limited;       and
          iv. CSS Technology Limited.
    The detailed submissions are as under:
    i. Microland Limited;
12.1. It was submitted that Microland Limited is functionally comparable to
that of assessee. It qualifies quantitative filters applied by the TPO
including different financial year ending filters. It was also submitted that
TPO himself has chosen the company for AY. 2009-10. It proves that the company
satisfied the persistent :- 16 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 loss making
filter applied by the TPO. Hence, ought to have accepted.
12.2. After considering the rival contentions, we are of the opinion that DRP
has correctly gave a finding that this company is not comparable to assessee-
company. The findings of the DRP are as under:
"Having considered the submission, on perusal of the annual report, it is
noticed from segment reporting that the revenue from IT enabled service
segment is Rs. 2,73,94,000/- as against the revenue from infrastructure
management services of Rs. 26,12,95,000/- and therefore, the company fails the
revenue earning filter applied by the TPO. Further, it is also noticed that
the company is engaged in IT infrastructure management services and takes
support services which are not comparable with the function of the assessee
company and therefore, the above company in our view cannot be retained as a
comparable".
Since the turnover is very small in the IT Enabled Services Agreement, we
affirm the findings of the DRP and reject the assessee's contentions.
ii. R Systems International Limited;
12.3. It was submitted that this company was selected by the TPO in the
earlier year and hence, this company should be selected as comparable. It was
further submitted that TPO excluded the company on the basis of different
financial year ending which was upheld by the DRP. It was contended that if
the company is having financial year, data available in the public forum can
be adjusted for the financial year ending 31-03-2011. Then, this company can
be considered as a comparable. Assessee relied on the Co-ordinate Bench
decision in the case of Techbooks International Private Limited (ITA No.
240/Del/2015) and also the :- 17 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 decision of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Mckinsey Knoweldge Centre
India Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No. 217/2014 dt. 27-03-2015 for the proposition that
if from the available data on record, the results for the financial year can
reasonably be extrapolated then, the comparable cannot be excluded solely on
the ground that comparables have different financial year endings.
12.4. Since the objection of assessee is valid, we direct the AO/TPO to
examine afresh this comparable and to verify whether the comparables satisfy
other filters, then select the company as comparable. AO/TPO is directed
accordingly.
iii. Accuspeed engineering Limited;
12.5. It was submitted that Accuspeed engineering Limited is engaged in the
provision of engineering consultancy services which were functionally
comparable to the appellant. It was submitted that the company is engaged in
design and detailed engineering for instrumentation for various projects and
relied on the annual report for the year ending 2009-10. The DRP however,
noticed that this company has only employee cost of 1.98 Crores which is less
than 25% and thus fails the employee cost filter. It relied on the Co-ordinate
Bench decision in the case of Navisita India Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No.
5329/Del/2012. The DRP also relied on the judgement of Delhi High Court in the
case of Rampgreen Solutions Pvt Limited Vs. CIT in ITA No 102/2015 dt
10-08-2015 to come to a finding that assessee is not a comparable company. We
also notice that the said company is functionally different. As seen from P &
L account, revenues include sales and services. Consequently, in the abscne of
any segmental information, it cannot be concluded :- 18 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 &
216 /Hyd/2016 that the said company is comparable company to assessee which is
in ITES providing engineering services. We are of the opinion that the TPO/DRP
has rightly excluded the company as functionally dissimilar. Assessee's
contentions are rejected.
iv. CSS Technology Limited:
12.6. With reference to this company, it was submitted that CSS Technology
Limited is engaged in provision of information technology enabled services
which is functionally comparable to assessee. It was noticed from the order of
the DRP that the said company fails export earning filter as the export
turnover was 91.41 Lakhs as against domestic turnover of Rs. 13.33 Crores. We
do not see any reason to differ from the findings of the DRP. Accordingly, we
are of the opinion that TPO/DRP has rightly excluded the above company. In the
result, the ground is partly allowed.
13\. Ground No. 12 pertains to the issue of adjustment which should be
restricted to the international transactions. The ground is as under:
Ground No. 12. That on the facts and circumstances of the case or in law,
AO/DRP has erred in making the adjustment by considering total revenue of the
Company without appreciating that the transfer pricing adjustment should be
restricted only to the value of international transactions with the AE.
13.1. It was submitted that the adjustment should be restricted to the
International transaction and assessee has furnished the segmental report
reporting to the TPO. Assessee relied on the following case law:
                                     :- 19 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
     i.     Saven Technologies Ltd. Vs. ACIT (ITA No. 1456/Hyd/2010);
    ii.     DCIT Vs. M/s. Firestone International (P) Ltd (ITA No
            4520/Mum/2011); and
    iii.    DCIT Vs. M/s. Federal Mogul Bearing India Ltd            (ITA No.
            1255/Mum/2014;
13.2. In principle, we agree with assessee's contentions that the ALP
adjustment should only be restricted to international transactions and not to
the entire turnover of assessee. However, this requires verification by the
AO/TPO. Therefore, we direct the AO/TPO to verify and restrict the adjustment
only to the international transactions. Ground is considered allowed for
statistical purposes.
Working capital adjustment Ground No. 16A : The Appellant submits that
negative working capital adjustment, if any, resulting from the exclusion or
inclusion of the companies mentioned in Grounds No 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11,
should not be made while computing the arm's length margin under the
provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
14\. This is an additional ground raised by assessee consequent to the orders
of the DRP. Even though TPO has given positive working capital adjustment,
consequent to DRP order excluding certain comparable selected, the adjustment
resulted in negative working. This ground being legal in nature was admitted.
It was submitted that negative working capital adjustment should not be made
in its case, as assessee is fully funded by the AO and does not bear any
working capital risk. Assessee submits that the negative working capital
adjustment cannot be made in the case of captive services provider. Reliance
was placed on the decision of the ITAT Hyderabad Bench in the case of Adaptec
(India) P. Ltd., :- 20 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Vs. ACIT in ITA No.
206/Hyd/2014 (AY. 2009-10) dt. 25-03-2015 wherein it was held that negative
working capital adjustment should not be made in the case of captive service
provider.
14.1. After considering the rival contentions, we are of the opinion that
assessee has a valid ground. In the case of Adaptec (India) P. Ltd., Vs. ACIT
in ITA No. 206/Hyd/2014 (AY. 2009-10) dt. 25-03-2015 (supra), the Co-ordinate
Bench has considered the issue of negative working capital and held as under:
"10. Ground No.8 pertains to the issue of negative working capital. As briefly
stated above, after arriving at the arithmetic mean of all comparables at
22.03%, the A.O. worked out negative working capital adjustment of 3.22%
thereby, making arms length price at 25.25%. Even though, DRP refused to
interfere with the objections of the assessee in its order, we were informed
that DRP has directed the TPO/A.O. not to make any negative working capital
adjustment in some of the cases in the next assessment year, in the cases of
Market Tools Research P. Ltd., and Mega Systems Worldwide India P. Ltd.,
assessee placed on record copies of orders of DRP. In that DRP considered the
issue and directed the TPO as under :
> "14. Ground No.11 : Negative Working Capital adjustment - Making a negative
> working capital adjustment without appreciating the fact that the company
> does not bear any working capital risks. On this issue, the assessee
> submitted as under :
> "The learned TPO determined the ALP for the international transactions with
> A.Es by making a negative working capital adjustment for the differences in
> working capital between the assessee and the companies considered as
> comparables. The assessee does not agree with the learned TPO as :
• The company does not bear any working capital risk since it is been fully
funded by it's A.E. from its inception and has no working capital
contingencies.
• The company has never taken any loans till date from the date of
incorporation nor has incurred any expense for meeting the working capital
requirement."
:- 21 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 We have gone through the submissions
and the order of the TPO. The assessee pleaded that the DRP has acceded such a
plea in some other case. On examination, we find that the DRP, Hyderabad in
the case of Cordys Software India P. ltd., for A.Y. 2008-09 in its directions
dated 03.08.2012 has given a finding as under :
> "7.7. 4 Thus, working capital adjustment is made for the time value of money
> lost when credit time is provided to the customers. The applicant is not an
> entrepreneur but a captive service provider. Its entire funding needs are
> provided by the A.E. This being so, the applicant does not stand to lose
> anything as it is compensated on a total cost plus basis. The TPO probably
> was carried away by the large amount of receivables appearing in the books
> of the applicant. But the applicant is running its business without any
> working capital risk while comparable companies have such a risk for them.
> If at all any working capital adjustment is to be made to t his situation,
> only a positive adjustment has to be made to the comparables so that they
> are brought on par with the applicant. In view of the same, the Panel
> directs that negative working capital adjustment to the arithmetic mean
> margin of the comparables shall not be made."
> In view of the above, the Panel directs that negative working capital
> adjustment to the arithmetic mean margin of the comparables shall not be
> made."
11\. In view of the above, we are of the opinion that assessee's case being
similar, there is no need for making any negative working capital adjustment
when assessee does not carry any working capital risk. In fact, TPO should
have done necessary working capital adjustment to the profits of the selected
comparables so as to make them comparable to the assessee. In view of this, we
direct the TPO not to make negative working capital adjustment".
Respectfully following the Co-ordinate Bench decision, we direct the AO/TPO
not to make any negative working capital adjustment. Since some of the
comparables are excluded and some are directed to be verified/ included, the
TPO/ AO is directed to work out the adjustment afresh.
Corporate Issues:
15\. Ground No. 17 pertains to the issue of non-setting off of unabsorbed
depreciation. The ground is as under:
:- 22 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Ground No. 17. The AO erred by not
setting off the unabsorved depreciation of AY 2008-09 and AY 2010-11 amounting
to Rs. 83,16,472 available for set off under section 32 of the Act from the
current year's taxable income under regular provisions of the Act as computed
in the Assessment Order dated 28 December 2015.
15.1. It was submitted that even though the DRP has directed the AO to verify
the record and allow the set-off of deprecation, the AO has not followed the
directions. Ld. DR however, submitted that this is a matter of verification of
record.
15.2. After considering the rival contentions, we are of the opinion that AO
has not followed the directions of the DRP. DRP vide para 3 in page 26 has
clearly directed the AO to verify the records and consider the submissions
made in accordance with the provisions of the Act. AO in the order itself has
stated that assessee filed revised return of income on 30-03-2013 revising the
total income to Rs. 18,18,817/- after set-off of unabsorbed depreciation of
earlier years. However, while computing the income, he has not started from
the income returned, but has started from income from profits and gains of
business and added income from other sources and the arm's length adjustment
ignoring the set-off of unabsorbed depreciation. We direct the AO/TPO to
follow the directions of the DRP and allow the unabsorbed depreciation as per
the provisions of the Act. Ground is accordingly considered allowed.
16\. Ground Nos. 18 & 19 pertaining to levy of interest u/s. 234A, 234B &
234D. The Grounds are as under:
:- 23 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Ground No. 18: The AO has erroneously
levied interest under section 234A though the assessee has filed its return of
income within due date specified in section 139(1) of the Act.
Ground No.19: That the consequential effect should be given to the liability
of interest under section 234B and 234D.
16.1. This being consequential, we direct the AO to follow the provisions of
the Act, principles of law on the basis of the total income computed after
giving effect to this order. Grounds are accordingly considered allowed.
17\. In the result, this appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical
purposes.
Revenue's appeal in ITA No. 216/Hyd/2016:
18\. This appeal is against the order of the DRP in which the following three
grounds are raised:
"1. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble DRP was
justified in rejecting companies on the ground of functional difference when
the taxpayer has not considered the verticals & horizontals (categorizing
comparables. The TPO has also not gone into the verticals/horizontals of the
comparables. The DRP failed to consider that the main search strategy of the
taxpayer as well as the TPO has been to identify the companies which are
engaged in the ITES.
2\. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Hon'ble DRP was
justified in rejecting Infosys BPO on ground of High turnover hence, it does
not influence the net margins of the company.
3\. Forward contracts are part and parcel of operations of the company and
gain or loss arising out of the same is operations in nature hence, it does
not influence profit origin. Thus the DRP erred in its decision of forward
contracts influence the profit margin of the company".
:- 24 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 18.1. As can be seen from the above
grounds, they are not very clear on what comparables the issues are raised but
the only comparable which was specifically mentioned in Ground No. 2 is with
reference to the Infosys BPO Ltd.
18.2. We were informed by the Ld. DR that the Ground No. 3 pertains to the two
comparables which are contested in the Ground Nos. 8, 9 and 10 (herein above
in assessee's appeal) which were excluded by the DRP, when neither TPO nor
assessee objected to their inclusion. Since the ground raised in assessee's
appeal at Ground Nos. 8, 9 10 covers the ground No. 3 in Revenue's appeal and
since those grounds were allowed, we treat this contention of Revenue also as
allowed.
18.3. Coming to Ground No. 1, there is no specific objection with reference to
companies which are rejected and accepted on the principles that TPO has not
gone into the verticals & horizontals of the comparables. Even though the said
conceptual contention may be correct generally, but as seen from the order of
the DRP, they have very clearly specified why a particular company is not
functionally comparable. We do not see any reason to interfere with such
findings. Thus the issue does not arise from the order of DRP. Accordingly,
Ground No. 1 is rejected.
18.4. Coming to Ground No. 2, we notice that DRP has excluded both Infosys BPO
Ltd., as well as TCS E-serve Ltd. Revenue is objecting only one, Infosys BPO
that it was wrongly excluded on the ground of high turnover as it does not
influence the net margins of the company. However, there are other reasons :-
25 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 also on which the DRP has excluded the
above company. The DRP's order with reference to Infosys BPO Ltd., is as
under:
"2.13 Ground of Objection 13 Infosys BPO Limited ("Infosys" or "the Company")
has to be rejected based on the presence of the brand thereby warranting
adjustments are required to eliminate the impact of brand on profits earned.
Since it might not be possible, Infosys is to be rejected as a comparable.
Infosys BPO Limited ("Infosys" or "the Company") has to be rejected based on
the fact that it is an oversized company as compared to the tested party.
The Learned TPO erred by not rejecting Infosys as comparable, as exclusion of
Infosys as comparable is upheld by Jurisdictional ITAT in assessee own case
(ITAT No.255/Hyd/2014 &ITA.No.1850/Hyd/2012) for AY 2009-10 and AY 2008-09.
It is submitted that the company should be excluded due to the following
reasons :-
Functional dissimilarity - Niche Areas That Infosys SPO is backed by Infosys
Technologies Limited which supports Infosys SPO to offer an integrated IT-BPO
delivery model designed for 'one stop shop' solution model which helps
managing the entire outsourcing operational chain of IT and process management
services. Infosys BPO's Business Service Centre performs the back office
functions for dispersed business units and locations. A pictorial presentation
of back office functions is displayed below:
Presence of brand That while considering Infosys BPO as a comparable company,
due consideration should be given to the fact that Infosys spa possesses brand
value which will tend to influence the pricing policy and thereby directly
impacting the margins earned by Infosys spa.
As seen from an extract of the Schedule 200200 (Selling and marketing
expenses) to the Profit & Loss A/c of the Annual Report for the FY 2010-11 of
Infosys spa, indicates that it is distinguished from the Assessee due to the
presence of brand and its associated value.
It is also submitted that Infosys spa has identified the presence of brand in
its services/ products and has goodwill as a part of its Fixed Assets -
:- 26 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Schedule 100600. Following is an
extract which provides evidence to the fact stated above.
It is also submitted that :-
• Infosys BPO, being a subsidiary of lnfosys Limited, has an element of brand
value associated with it. This can be further confirmed by the presence of
brand related expenses incurred by Infosys BPO.
• Presence of a brand is likely to command premium prices that the customers
are willing to pay for the branded services/products.
The Assessee wishes to humbly submit that the Assessee does not have any brand
associated with it. Hence the Assessee submits that Infosys spa cannot be
comparable to the Assessee.
Ratio of sum of advertising and marketing expenses to sales greater than 3%
The Learned TPO has failed to appreciate the marketing expenses filter. Since
Infosys BPO spends 8.40% of its sales in advertisement, this has generated
significant revenue and creation of brand value for Infosys spa as there is a
high degree of correlation between advertising and sales.
Size of the comparable The Learned TPO has failed to appreciate the fact that
the ITES industry is clearly demarcated based on size and that Assessee cannot
be compared to companies having sales disproportionate to the sales generated
by the Assessee. If one were to look at the turnover/size of the 13 comparable
companies selected by the Learned, TPO and plot it on a scattered diagram,
then one could notice that both Infosys is a clear outlier. The scattered
diagram of the 13 comparable companies is presented below:
The assessee relied on the decision of the Hon'ble I TAT, Hyderabad in
assessee's own case for A.Y. 2009-10 in which the Hon'ble ITAT held that 'We
are in agreement with the contentions of the comparability on turnover ratio
of assessee with this company on the ground that assessee's turnover is about
RS.15.79 crores, as against turnover of Rs.1016 crores of the Infosys. We are
also of the view that other contentions with regard to the brand value and
brand building exercise, having huge asset base, can be considered to arrive
at the conclusion that Infosys BPO is functionally not similar to that of
assessee. Infosys BPO stands on its own as an exclusive BPO of the Infosys
Technologies and in earlier years, generally Infosys BPO is excluded in many
of the cases. Considering these aspects, we are of the opinion that even
though the profits of the Infosys BPO Ltd. is reasonable and no super profits
are earned, because of its big :- 27 -: I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 brand
value this company has to be excluded on the grounds of functional
dissimilarity on FAR Analysis. Therefore, we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO
to exclude this company." The Hon'ble ITAT has taken similar view in A.Y.
2008-09 also.
Having considered the submission, even though we are in agreement of the
exclusion of the above company, due to turnover, however, respectfully
following the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT on functional differences,
including the influence of the brand value on the margins, we direct the A.O.
to exclude the above company from the comparables".
18.5. In view of the detailed reasons given by the DRP in excluding the
company, not only on the basis of the high turnover but also with reference to
the brand value etc., we do not see any reason to interfere with the findings
of the DRP. In fact the ground raised is not covering all the issues on which
the DRP has rejected the above said company. In view of this, we do not find
any merit in considering the Revenue's ground. Accordingly, ground 2 is
rejected.
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
Hyderabad.
5\. The Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax (Transfer Pricing), Hyderabad.
6\. D.R. ITAT, Hyderabad.
7\. Guard File.
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
             For Revenue        : Shri S.V.S.S. Prasad, CIT-DR
                  Date of Hearing               : 27-09-2016
                  Date of Pronouncement         : 21-12-2016
                                     ORDER
PER B. RAMAKOTAIAH, A.M. :
These are cross-appeals by Assessee and Revenue against the order(s) of the
Assessing Officer (AO) u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA(4) r.w.s. 144C of the Income
Tax Act [Act].
2\. Briefly stated, assessee Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited
was incorporated in November, 2006 as a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor India
Ltd., under the Companies Act, 1956. Assessee is a 100% Export Oriented Unit
and is registered under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) :- 2 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Scheme of the Ministry of Information
Technology, Government of India. Hyundai Motor India Ltd., itaelf is a
subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company, Korea [Associated Enterprise (AE)] 2.1.
Assessee is involved in providing support services in connection with CAE/CAD
modeling and iterative simulation. It receives the basic design from its group
company with respect to CAD modeling and makes a 3D CAD modeling data of
vehicle components using CAD software tools. Assessee is a routing support
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
             For Revenue        : Shri S.V.S.S. Prasad, CIT-DR
                  Date of Hearing               : 27-09-2016
                  Date of Pronouncement         : 21-12-2016
                                     ORDER
PER B. RAMAKOTAIAH, A.M. :
These are cross-appeals by Assessee and Revenue against the order(s) of the
Assessing Officer (AO) u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA(4) r.w.s. 144C of the Income
Tax Act [Act].
2\. Briefly stated, assessee Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited
was incorporated in November, 2006 as a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor India
Ltd., under the Companies Act, 1956. Assessee is a 100% Export Oriented Unit
and is registered under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) :- 2 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Scheme of the Ministry of Information
Technology, Government of India. Hyundai Motor India Ltd., itaelf is a
subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company, Korea [Associated Enterprise (AE)] 2.1.
Assessee is involved in providing support services in connection with CAE/CAD
modeling and iterative simulation. It receives the basic design from its group
company with respect to CAD modeling and makes a 3D CAD modeling data of
vehicle components using CAD software tools. Assessee is a routing support
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
             For Revenue        : Shri S.V.S.S. Prasad, CIT-DR
                  Date of Hearing               : 27-09-2016
                  Date of Pronouncement         : 21-12-2016
                                     ORDER
PER B. RAMAKOTAIAH, A.M. :
These are cross-appeals by Assessee and Revenue against the order(s) of the
Assessing Officer (AO) u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA(4) r.w.s. 144C of the Income
Tax Act [Act].
2\. Briefly stated, assessee Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited
was incorporated in November, 2006 as a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor India
Ltd., under the Companies Act, 1956. Assessee is a 100% Export Oriented Unit
and is registered under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) :- 2 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Scheme of the Ministry of Information
Technology, Government of India. Hyundai Motor India Ltd., itaelf is a
subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company, Korea [Associated Enterprise (AE)] 2.1.
Assessee is involved in providing support services in connection with CAE/CAD
modeling and iterative simulation. It receives the basic design from its group
company with respect to CAD modeling and makes a 3D CAD modeling data of
vehicle components using CAD software tools. Assessee is a routing support
service provider and it assumes less than normal risk associated with carrying
out such business. The International transactions reported by assessee are as
under S.No. Name of the Nature of the Amount Associated international
transactions in Rs.
                Enterprise
    1.      Hyundai       Motor   Engineering/Consulting             43,57,37,674
            Company, Korea        Engineering Services/ IT
    2.      Kia           Motor   enabled Services (ITeS)
            Corporation, Korea                                       20,52,60,386
                                Purchase of computers                 2,64,56,224
    3.      Hyundai Autoever Purchase       of  Security                   64,667
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
             For Assessee       : Shri K. R. Vasudevan, AR
             For Revenue        : Shri S.V.S.S. Prasad, CIT-DR
                  Date of Hearing               : 27-09-2016
                  Date of Pronouncement         : 21-12-2016
                                     ORDER
PER B. RAMAKOTAIAH, A.M. :
These are cross-appeals by Assessee and Revenue against the order(s) of the
Assessing Officer (AO) u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA(4) r.w.s. 144C of the Income
Tax Act [Act].
2\. Briefly stated, assessee Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited
was incorporated in November, 2006 as a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor India
Ltd., under the Companies Act, 1956. Assessee is a 100% Export Oriented Unit
and is registered under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) :- 2 -:
I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016 Scheme of the Ministry of Information
Technology, Government of India. Hyundai Motor India Ltd., itaelf is a
subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company, Korea [Associated Enterprise (AE)] 2.1.
Assessee is involved in providing support services in connection with CAE/CAD
modeling and iterative simulation. It receives the basic design from its group
company with respect to CAD modeling and makes a 3D CAD modeling data of
vehicle components using CAD software tools. Assessee is a routing support
service provider and it assumes less than normal risk associated with carrying
out such business. The International transactions reported by assessee are as
under S.No. Name of the Nature of the Amount Associated international
transactions in Rs.
                Enterprise
    1.      Hyundai       Motor   Engineering/Consulting             43,57,37,674
            Company, Korea        Engineering Services/ IT
    2.      Kia           Motor   enabled Services (ITeS)
            Corporation, Korea                                       20,52,60,386
                                Purchase of computers                 2,64,56,224
    3.      Hyundai Autoever Purchase       of  Security                   64,667
19\. In the result, Revenue's appeal is partly allowed.
20\. To sum-up, Assessee's appeal is partly allowed for statistical purposes
and Revenue's appeal is partly allowed. If stay orders are pending if any,
they are deemed to have been vacated.
Order pronounced in the open court on 21st December, 2016 Sd/- Sd/-
    (D. MANMOHAN)                                  (B. RAMAKOTAIAH)
    VICE PRESIDENT                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Hyderabad, Dated 21st December, 2016
    TNMM
                                   :- 28 -:       I.T.A. Nos.128 & 216 /Hyd/2016
    Copy to :
1\. Hyundai Motor India Engineering Private Limited, Survey No. 5/2 & 5/3,
Opposite Hitec City Railway Station (MMTS), Hyderabad.
2\. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2(3), Hyderabad.
3\. Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP), Hyderabad.
4\. The Director of Income Tax, International Taxation, Income Tax Towers,
