Gujarat High Court
Prakash vs Iraben on 30 August, 2011
Author: Ks Jhaveri,
     Gujarat High Court Case Information System 
    		   Print
    FA/2932/2010	 90/ 90	JUDGMENT 
    IN
    THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
    FIRST
    APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    With
    FIRST
    APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    FIRST
    APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3965 of 2011
    In
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3966 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3967 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    =========================================================
    1
    Whether
    			Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
    2
    To be
    			referred to the Reporter or not ?
    3
    Whether
    			their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the judgment ?
    4
    Whether
    			this case involves a substantial question of law as to the
    			interpretation of the constitution of India, 1950 or any order
    			made thereunder ?
    5
    Whether
    			it is to be circulated to the civil judge ?
    =========================================================
    PRAKASH
    GHISALAL SHARMA - Appellant(s)
    Versus
    IRABEN
    VINUBHAI DESAI TRUSTEE & DIRECTOR OF ANKUR SCHOOL & 12 -
    Defendant(s)
    =========================================================
    Appearance: 
    MR
    SB VAKIL, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR MR RJ OZA
    for
    Appellant(s) : 1, 
    MR MIHIR THAKORE, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR MR MANAV A
    MEHTA for Defendant(s) : 1, 
    MR
    KS NANAVATI FOR M/S THAKKAR ASSOC. for Defendant(s) : 2 - 3. 
    MR
    MIHIR JOSHI, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR MR HEMANG H PARIKH, MR RASESH H
    PARIKH for Defendant(s) : 4 - 7. 
    RULE SERVED for Defendant(s) : 8
    - 9. 
    MR CB UPADHYAYA for Defendant(s) : 9, 
    RULE UNSERVED for
    Defendant(s) : 10, 
    MR KV SHELAT for Defendant(s) : 11, 
    MR SN
    SOPARKAR, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR MR APURVA R KAPADIA for Defendant(s) :
    12, 
    MR MI MERCHANT for Defendant(s) :
    13, 
    =========================================================
    CORAM
    			: 
    HONOURABLE
    			MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    Date
    : 30/08/2011 
    ORAL
    JUDGMENT
1.0 The above appeals are directed against the judgement and order dated 17th
August 2010 rendered by learned Judge, City Civil Court No.20, Ahmedabad, in
Civil Misc. Appeal No.614 of 2009 whereby the said appeal came to be allowed
and the order dated 10th June 2009 passed by learned Charity Commissioner in
Suo Motu Scheme Proceedings No.14 of 2009 was set aside.
2.0 The short facts as emerging from the record of the case are as under:
2.1 Ankur Society (hereinafter referred to as "the Society") is a charitable
Public Trust, registered under the provisions of Societies Registration Act,
1860 and also under the provisions of Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950, having
object of providing education in all branches. The Society established a
school called "Ankur High School", which is affiliated with Gujarat Secondary
Education Board. The Society has its own bye-laws. The relevant original bye-
laws as existing today, providing for the management of the Society are bye-
laws no.1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 which read as under:
"1. The society shall consist of a Board of Trustees and the Governing Body
constituted by the Board of Trustees.
2\. For the management of all matters connected with the society there shall
be two bodies:
3\. The Trustees: (a) There shall be at least three Trustees of the society
nominated by the founder Trustee and any vacancy due to the resignation or
death shall be filled up by the Board of Trustees. They shall have the charge
of the permanent funds and property of the society and all such funds and
property shall stand in the names of the Trustees.
(b) The Director of the School shall be one of the Trustees.
*** *** ***
6\. The Governing Body: The Governing Body of the society shall consist of the
members nominated by the Board of Trustees from among the following:
[1] Two from prominent Educationists [2] Two from parents of the Ankur School
[3] Two from reputed Establishments.
Ex-officio Members: Principals of institutions conducted by the society and
heads of various departments including one member of the office staff, shall
be Ex-officio members of the Governing Body.
7\. Chairman:
[1] There shall be a chairman elected by the members of the Governing Body.
[2] The Chairman shall be elected at the end of every two years.
[3] If the office of the Chairman falls vacant in the course of biennium, a
meeting of the members of the Governing Body shall be summoned within a period
of two months for the election of a new Chairman.
8\. The powers and duties of the Governing Body:
[a] To start, affiliate and incorporate institutions.
[b] To fix the emoluments and the salaries of the staff members of the
different institutions and to sanction Provident Fund and/or pension fund.
[c] To order publication of Annual Reports.
[d] To represent the society in its correspondence with Government University,
other educational organizations.
[e] There shall be at least two meetings of the Governing Body, one in each
term.
[f] Any member of the Government body failing to attend consecutive sittings
without the permission of the Chairman shall be deemed to have vacated his
office as a member and the vacancy shall be filled up within two months.
[g] In all matter before the Governing Body, the Chairman will have the
casting vote in case of a tie.
9\. Hon.
Treasurer:
The Governing body may nominate one of the Trustees or a member of the
Governing body to act as Hon. Treasurer.
10\. Hon.
Secretary:
The Governing body may nominate one of its members to carry on the work as its
hon. Secretary."
2.2 The following persons were subscribers to the Memorandum of Association
who had given their consent to be the members of First Governing Body of the
Society:
[1] Dr.
T.S. Subramaniam - Director ATIRA [2] Shri Nandkishore Sakerlal Shodhan - Mill
Agent [3] Dr.
K.R. Ramnathan - Director, PRL [4] Shri Prabhudas Balubhai Patwari - Advocate
[5] Shri Bernard Kohn - Architect [6] Smt.
Ruth Kohn - Teacher [7] Smt.
Freny Desai - Teacher [8] Shri Rohit C. Mehta - Mill Agent 2.3 The subscribers
to the memorandum of Association were constituted as Board of Trustees as well
as the Governing Body to manage and administer the Society.
3.0 In the year 2004 Change Report No.438/2004 came to be filed with Charity
Commissioner proposing certain changes in the original Memorandum of
Association, Rules & Regulations of the Society. However, this change report
came to be rejected vide order dated 24th November 2008.
3.1 The Society from time to time passed certain Resolutions proposing to make
changes in the entries recorded in the register kept under Section 17 of the
Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 and submitted Change Report Nos.409/69, 820/83,
1458/90, 737/04, 438/04, 1140/04 and 1141/04 in the prescribed form in the
office of Charity Commissioner, Gujarat State, Ahmedabad. The status of all
the said change reports are stated below:
[1] Change Report No.409/69: Shri Rohitbhai C. Mehta, Chairman of the Ankur
Society submitted Change Report No.409/69 giving over and donating the
articles viz. Furniture, teaching aids and house keeping, total value of
Rs.4045/- to one Abhinav Trust. This change report was accepted by the Deputy
Charity Commissioner vide order dated 26th May 1969.
[2] Change Report No.820/83 - This was at the instance of Secretary of the
Society submitted on 16th September 1983 for deletion of names of the members
of the Governing Body in PTR viz. [i] Shri Nandkishor Shakarlal Sodhan
(resigned with effect from 19.04.1964); [ii] Dr. T.S. Subramaniam (resigned
from 02.04.1968); [iii] Shri K.R. Ramnathan (resigned from 02.12.1967); [iv]
Shri Bernard Kohan (permanently shifted out of country since more than 12
years); [5] Smt.Ruth Kohan (permanently shifted out of country since more than
12 years); [6] Shri Rohitbhai C. Mehta (resigned on 17.05.1971) and [vii] Shri
Prabhudas B.Patwari (resigned from 15.03. 1976). This change report was
accepted by order dated 30th December 1983\.
[3] Change Report No.1458/90 - The Secretary of the Society filed Change
Report for nominating following persons in the Governing Body against
available seven vacancies:
[i] Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, Administrative Officer [ii] Smt.
Iraben Vinubhai Desai, Assistant Director, Ankur School, Ahmedabad.
[iii] Shri Yashwantbhai Shukla, Educationist, Ahmedabad.
[iv] Shri C.M. Mehta, Educationist, Ahmedabad.
[v] Smt.
Jayshriben A. Mehta, Scientist, V.A. Sarabhai Community Centre, Ahmedabad.
[vi] Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal, Chartered Accountant, Ahmedabad.
[vii] Shri Safibhai A. Maniar, Businessman, Ahmedabad.
This proposal was made with their consent and in furtherance to Resolution
No.2/1990-91 passed on 01.12.1990 by the Ankur Society. This change report was
also accepted by the Charity Commissioner. It is required to be noted that
they had given consent only for Governing Body and not as Trustees.
[4] Change Report No.373/04 - One Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting
in the capacity of Managing Trustee of the Society filed Change Report
No.373/2004 for substituting names of (1) Kamlesh Ramanlal Gandhi, (2) Sanghvi
Dipak Chhotalal, (3) Shivkumar R. Chauhan, (4) Rajeshbhai Shantilal Shah and
(5) Bhanwarlal G. Sharma on the Public Trust registered in place of (1) Smt.
Freiny Chinubhai Desai (since died), (2) Shri Yashwantbhai Shukla (since
died), (3) Jayshriben C. Mehta (since resigned), (4) Shri C.M.Mehta (since
resigned), (5) Shafibhai Maniar (since resigned) and (6) Shri Ved Prakash
Agarwal (since resigned). This change report was approved by Deputy Charity
Commissioner vide orders dated 29th May 2004.
[4.1] Thereafter Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal and others have preferred Appeal
No.19 of 2004 against the order dated 29th May 2004 passed by the Deputy
Charity Commissioner. The said Appeal was allowed by order dated 24th
September 2004 by Charity Commissioner and the order of Deputy Charity
Commissioner sanctioning Change Report No.373 of 2004 was cancelled vide order
dated 29th May 2004.
[5] Change Report No.438/2004 - Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting
in the capacity of Managing Trustee of the Society filed the said report for
making entry on PTR of new Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations
of the Society in place of existing Memorandum of Association and Rules and
Regulations of the society. The said Change Report was filed on the basis of
resolution passed in the meeting of the society held on 10.04.2004. The Deputy
Charity Commissioner by order dated 13th January 2006 approved the said Change
Report.
[5.1] Being aggrieved by the said order, Shri Nikunj H. Mehta and another
preferred appeal No.9 of 2006. The said appeal came to be allowed by order
dated 30th September 2006 by Charity Commissioner and the matter was remanded
for deciding the same by taking into consideration the observations made by
the Charity Commissioner. Thereafter the Deputy Charity Commissioner
considered additional evidence produced on record and again passed order on
10.09.2007 and approved the said Change Report No.438/2004.
[5.2] Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order Shri Nikunj Mehta preferred
Appeal No.14/2007 before the Charity Commissioner under section 70 of the
Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950. The Charity Commissioner vide order dated 24th
November 2008 allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the Deputy Charity
Commissioner dated 10th September 2007 approving the Change Report
No.438/2004. As a result of the said order the original memorandum of
association and rules and regulations of the Society, which were taken with
PTR in the year 1963 continued to be in force till date. The relevant part of
the said rules and regulations are already quoted hereinabove.
[6] Change Report No.1140/2004. - Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting
in the capacity of Managing Trustee of the Society filed Change Report
No.1140/2004 to add into P.T.R. the names of Trustees viz. (1) Bhanverlal G.
Sharma, (2) Hinaben Bhanwarlal Sharma, (3) Jitendra Bhanwarlal Sharma, (4)
Harish Keshavlal Patel and (5) Shivkumar R. Chauhan. The said Change Report
was objected to by Shri Nikunj Mehta and another. The Deputy Charity
Commissioner, considering the said objections rejected the said Change Report
vide order dated 27th January 2009.
[7] Change Report No.1141/2004 - Mr. Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting
in the capacity of Managing Trustee of the Society, filed Change Report
No.1141/2004 to delete names of Yashwantbhai P. Shukla and Freniben Desai due
to death of both the persons. No order was passed on this change report.
4.0 The Deputy Charity Commissioner forwarded a confidential report dated 14th
March 2005 along with an inquiry report received from the Inspector to Charity
Commissioner. The Inspector recorded various irregularities in the financial
and executive administration of the Trust and recommended framing of Scheme
under section 50A of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950\. A report was also
called for from the Director of Accounts, office of the Charity Commissioner,
Gujarat State, who opined several irregularities in the matter of finance of
the Society. The Joint Charity Commissioner recorded his satisfaction to frame
suo motu scheme on the basis of the aforementioned report. Subsequently the
Joint Charity Commissioner made an order dated 23rd November 2005 to prepare a
Suo Motu Scheme for the Society under section 50A of the Act. The said
proceedings came to be registered as Suo Motu Scheme Proceeding No.14/2005.
4.1 The Charity Commissioner served a notice of hearing dated 25th November
2005 along with copy of the order dated 23rd November 2005 passed in Suo Motu
Scheme proceeding No.14 of 2005 to Shri Dineshbhai Muljibhai Patel requiring
him to attend hearing on 20th January 2006 before the Charity Commissioner,
Gujarat State, Ahmedabad. The Joint Charity Commissioner also published a
public notice dated 7th August 2006 in local daily "Sandesh" on 13th August
2006 notifying commencement of proceedings of suo motu scheme proceedings
No.14 of 2005 and invited all persons interested to submit their written
submissions on or before 5th September 2006. It is important to note that only
the name of Dinesh Muljibhai Patel was on record as Trustee and it is only
because of this precise reason that the advertisement has been issued in order
to avoid any complication.
4.2 On service of notice of hearing, Shri Dineshbhai Muljibhai Patel filed
appearance through his Advocate Shri Atul Mangaldas Joshi and also filed his
explanation. During the pendency of the proceedings Shri Dineshbhai Patel
passed away i.e. on 28 th September 2008. His Advocate, however, submitted
list of 7 persons along with their consent for being nominated as Trustees of
the Trust as per the Suo Motu Scheme proceedings. These names were: (1) Iraben
Vinubhai Desai, (2) Ghanshyamsinh Modbhai, (3) Viraj Iraben Desai, (4) Pathan
Shahidkhan Murtuzakhan, (5)Aparnaben Pravinbhai Pancholi, (6) Gargiben Viraj
Desai and (7) Satish J. Pandya. Thereafter Shri Atul M. Joshi, learned
Advocate filed pursis at Exh.33 declaring that his client Shri Dineshbhai M.
Patel has expired pending proceedings in September 2008\.
4.3 On or about 16th May 2009 Shri Prakash G. Sharma submitted a list of 7
persons for being nominated in the Trust Board which was to be constituted as
per the settlement to be recorded in Suo Motu Scheme Proceedings by the
Charity Commissioner. These names were (1) Prakash Ghisalal Sharma, (2) Sunil
Hasmukhbhai Shah, (3) Mukesh Narpatlal Shah, (4) Suryakant Hiralal Parikh, (5)
Pravinkumar Hiralal Vora, (6) Javed Mehmood Desai and (7) Naresh Ghanshyambhai
Bheda. Earlier it was also proposed to include the name of Shri Bhaverlal
Sharma. However, he withdrew his nomination and proposed names of 7 persons as
above referred for being appointed as Trustees.
5.0 The Charity Commissioner, after considering all relevant aspects, passed
order dated 10th June 2009 in Suo Motu Scheme Proceedings No.14 of 2005
sanctioning the scheme in terms of Annexure-A to the said order. The order
directed newly appointed trustees to take over management of the Society
within 10 days of the order and to deposit Rs.25,000/- in the P.T.A fund in
the office of the Charity Commissioner within three months from the date of
the order towards the costs of the proceedings and to enter names of trustees,
who are appointed on the Executive Committee of the Trust in Schedule-I of PTR
on 1st July 2009. The scheme included the appellants and five others viz. (1)
Prakash Ghisalal Sharma, (2) Suryakant Hiralal Parikh, (3) Pravinkumar Hiralal
Vora, (4) Javed Mehmood Desai and (5) Naresh Ghanshyambhai Bheda.
6.0 Feeling aggrieved by the order dated 10th June 2009 passed by the Charity
Commissioner, Iraben Vinubhai Desai, the respondent no.1 filed Civil Misc.
Application No.614/2009 before the City Civil Court, Ahmedabad, which came to
be registered as Civil Misc. Application No.614/2009. The respondent no.1 has
also filed an applications at Exh. 6 and 7 to stay the operation of the order
dated 10th June 2009 passed by the Charity Commissioner and to restrain the
Trustees appointed under the scheme dated 10th June 2009 from functioning as
such.
6.1 The Court No.22, City Civil Court, vide order dated 21st July 2009, passed
below Applications Exh.6 and 7 in Civil Misc. Application No.614/2009 stayed
the order dated 10th June 2009 passed by the Charity Commissioner and also
restrained he appellants and other trustees from managing and acting as the
Trustees of the Trust during the pendency of the main proceedings.
6.2 Feeling aggrieved by the aforesaid order dated 21st July 2009 the Society
and Trustees filed Special Civil Application No.7687/2009 before this Court.
This Court by order dated 5th April 2010 directed the parties to maintain
status quo as on the date of the order and further directed the court below to
decide the main application as expeditiously as possible, preferably within
six months from the date of receipt of the writ of the order of this Court.
6.3 Feeling aggrieved by the order passed by this Court in Special Civil
Application No.7687/2009 the Society and others filed SLP (Civil)
No.14586/2010 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court disposed of the said appeal on 18.06.2010 with certain directions.
Thereafter the Court No.20, City Civil Court, Ahmedabad heard the Civil Misc.
Application No.614/2009 and vide order dated 17.8.2010 allowed the same in
terms of prayer 7(A) and set aside the order dated 10th June 2009 passed by
the Charity Commissioner in Suo Motu Scheme Proceedings No.14/2005. The
application was moved by only one person viz. Ms Iraben Desai. No cross-
objection or application was moved by any of the member of Governing Council.
7.0 It is against the aforesaid order dated 17th August 2010 passed by the
City Civil Court, Ahmedabad in Civil Misc. Application No.614/2009 that the
present appeals have been filed.
7.1 Initially this Court, while admitting the matter interim relief was
granted against which an appeal was filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court while disposing of the said appeal directed the High
Court to dispose of the appeal as early as possible and preferably within a
period of six months.
8.0 Mr.
Mihir Thakore, Mr. S.N. Soparkar and Mr. N.D. Nanavati, learned Senior
Counsels appearing for the respondents initially raised the following
preliminary objection in respect of the maintainability of the First Appeal.
8.1 The preliminary objection is that the appeal under section 72(4) of the
Act should be registered as a Second Appeal and not as First Appeal and its
scope would be limited as a Second Appeal under section 100 of Civil Procedure
Code, 1908.
8.2 Learned Senior Counsels appearing for the respondents in these appeals
raised a preliminary contention with regard to the maintainability of the
appeal on the following grounds:
8.3 The impugned order of the City Civil Court under Section 72(1) is an order
of the City Civil Court in exercise of Appellate jurisdiction as held in
various decisions interpreting section 72 of the Bombay Public Trusts Act and
not the provisions of Clause 15 of the Letters Patent. Consequently, Civil
Misc. Application filed before the City Civil Court is a First Appeal against
the order of the Charity Commissioner.
8.4 In this regard the counsels relied upon a decision in the case of Hiragar
V. Ratanlal, reported in AIR 1973 Gujarat 15, wherein it is held that an
application under Section 72 of Bombay Public Trusts Act (29 of 1950), to the
District Court is essentially an appeal against the order of Charity
Commissioner and therefore an order of a Single Judge of the High Court in
appeal against the order of the District Court can be reconsidered under
Letters Patent only after that judge's certificate of worthiness.
8.5 They have also relied upon a decision in the case of Ramchandra G. Pandit
Vs. Charity Commissioner of State of Gujarat, reported in 1987(2) GLH 169
wherein it is held that the proceedings before the District Court under
section 72(1) are in the nature of an appeal and that District Court exercises
appellate jurisdiction while disposing of a matter under section 72(1) of the
Act and that the single Judge of the High Court while deciding the appeal from
the order of the District Court under section 72(1) of Bombay Public Trusts
Act deals with a matter wherein the order was made by the District Judge in
the exercise of an appellate jurisdiction by a court subject to the
superintendence of the High Court and hence Clause 15 of the Letters Patent is
directly attracted.
8.6 They have also relied upon a decision in the case of Naranbhai Dayabhai
Patel V. Suleman Isubji Dadabhai, reported in AIR 1996 SC 1184 wherein it is
held that in case of appeal before single Judge of High Court by virtue of
statutory conferment of supervisory jurisdiction, Letters Patent Appeal before
the Division Bench of High Court would not lie unless certificate of single
Judge has been granted for leave to appeal.
8.7 Learned Counsels submitted that application under Section 72(1)
challenging the order of the Charity Commissioner is a First Appeal, when the
order of the City Civil Court is being challenged under section 72(4) before
the High Court, the Appeal to the High Court under Section 72(4) is an appeal
from a judgement passed in Appeal by a Court subordinate to the High Court and
the judgement of the High Court under section 72(4) would be passed in
exercise of Appellate jurisdiction in respect of a decree or order made in
exercise of Appellate jurisdiction by a Court subject to superintendence of
the said High Court.
8.8 They also submitted that in the case of Parvez Rustamji Bharda V. Navrojji
Sorabji Tamboly, reported in 2001(2) GLR 949 a Division Bench of this Court
has observed that the power exercised by the High Court is in the nature of a
second appellate court.
8.9 According to them, the High Court exercises jurisdiction under section
72(4) as a second Appellate Court and when the CPC applies to proceedings
before the Charity Commissioner when exercising jurisdiction under section 50A
of the Bombay Public Trusts Act as well as to proceedings before the City
Civil Court under section 72(1) in view of the Section 76 of the Bombay Public
Trusts Act and the provisions of Bombay Public Trusts Act do not categorically
and specifically expand the jurisdiction of the High Court as a second
Appellate Court, the limitations of Section 100 would apply to the appeal
before the High Court under section 72(4).
8.10 In this regard they have placed reliance upon a decision in the case of
Chunilal Vithaldas V. Mohanlal Motilal Patel, reported in AIR 1967 SC 226,
wherein it is held that in a second appeal the appellate court is bound by
same restrictions as are laid down in section 100 of Civil Procedure Code.
8.11 In the case of Shivprasad Shankarlal Pradeshi Vs. Leelabhai Badrinarayan
Kalwar reported in AIR 1998 Bombay 131 it is held that appeal under section
72(4) is subject to restrictions and limitations imposed under section 100 of
Civil procedure Code while entertaining second appeal.
8.12 In the case of James Joseph V. State of Kerala, reported in (2010) 9 SCC
642, while considering the Scheme of Saurashtra Act, it is held that there was
no special jurisdiction conferred upon the Courts and consequently the
limitations of Section 100 would apply to the appeal from appeal although it
was appeal under Special Act. The Apex Court observed that the essential
character of the Second Appeal under the Code was not altered and the
procedure in trial of suit applications and proceedings under the Act was the
procedure prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure and therefore it was held
that the Legislature intended to confer a right of Second Appeal subject to
the restrictions imposed by Section 100 of the Code. It is submitted that even
under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, in proceedings before the Charity
Commissioner under section 50A, the Charity Commissioner is required to follow
the Code of Civil Procedure and even the City Civil Court is required to
follow the Code of Civil Procedure while exercising jurisdiction under Section
72(1) in view of section 76 of the Bombay Public Trusts Act.
8.13 Learned Counsels lastly submitted that the preliminary issue is a
jurisdictional issue as the nature of exercise by the Single Judge of this
Court in a First Appeal and in a Second Appeal are completely distinct
inasmuch as in First Appeal the High Court has jurisdiction to reconsider
facts, while in Second Appeal if limitations of Section 100 have to be read
into the Second Appeal the High Court can determine only on a substantial
question of law arising in the matter and for the said purpose, it shall have
to formulate the question of law before proceeding to hear the appeal. He
therefore submitted that unless this preliminary issue is determined at the
outset, the Court cannot proceed to hear the matter.
9.0 As against the above, Mr. S.B. Vakil, Mr. K.S. Nanavati, and Mr. Mihir
Joshi, learned Senior Counsels appearing for appellants submitted that section
72(1) provides that any person aggrieved by the decision of the Charity
Commissioner under section 50A inter alia shall apply to the court to set
aside the said decision. The heading of the section also calls it
"application". There is no invariable rule that a decision of an authority in
the first instance can be set side only in an appeal or that a proceeding to
set aside the decision of the forum in the first instance in law is
necessarily an appeal. Section 72(1) expressly mentions it as application.
Therefore, whether it is in the nature of an appeal or not may be a question,
but the proceeding is not an appeal proper, but is statutorily an application.
Section 72(4) clearly shows that the legislature knew the distinction between
an application and an appeal and has consciously described the proceedings
under section 72(1) as an "application" and not an appeal.
9.1 According to the learned counsels, an appeal is a statutory remedy and the
scope of the appeal is co-extensive with the scope of the proceedings from
which the appeal arises, unless the statute providing for the appeal imposes
limitation on the jurisdiction of the appellate court.
9.2 In support of the contentions the learned counsels have relied upon the
following decisions:
[1] In the case of P.K. Mitra V. State of West Bengal, reported in AIR 1959 SC
144 it is held that the right of appeal is a statutory right which has got to
be recognized by the courts and when one exists the same cannot be denied in
exercise of the discretionary powers of the court.
[2] In the case of S.K.Jadhav V. State of Maharashtra, reported in 1969 (2)
SCC 793: AIR 1971 SC 840, it is held that an appeal is a creature of statute
and the powers and jurisdiction of appellate court must be circumscribed and
at the same time a court of appeal is a court of error and its normal function
is to correct the decision appealed from and its jurisdiction should be co-
extensive with that of the trial court.
[3] In the case of Mohamed V. Collector of Surat, reported in 1977[18] GLR 488
it is held that appeal under section 72(4) of the Act can lie on questions of
facts against the decision of the District Court and limitations provided
under section 100 on jurisdiction of court cannot be read in section 72[4].
[4] In the case of D.N. Taneja V. Bhajan Lal, reported in [1988]3 SCC 26 it is
held that the right of appeal is a creature of statute and the question
whether there is a right of appeal or not will have to be considered on an
interpretation of the provision of statute.
[5] In the case of Jute Corpn. Of India Ltd. V.
CIT reported in [1991] Suppl.[2] SCC 744: AIR 1991 SC 241, wherein it is held
that in absence of statutory provision to the contrary, power of the appellate
authority is co-terminus with all plenary power of the subordinate authority.
[6] In the case of James Joseph V. State of Kerala, reported in [2010] 9 SCC
642, it is held that in a second appeal under section 12A of Kerala Forest
Act, 1961 limitations of section 100 of CPC were held not to be applicable.
Unlike section 100 of CPC section 12-A(1) provides that an appeal against the
order of the appellate authority under section 11 of the Act would lie,
without specifying any limitation or restriction. The width, extent and
limitation of appellate jurisdiction depends on legislative intent and
statutory language employed by the statute concerned. Limitations of section
100 of CPC cannot be read to an appeal provision, if it is not expressly or
impliedly provided for in a statute concerned.
[7] In the case of Ramchandra G. Pandit V. Charity Commissioner, reported in
[1987]3 SCC 273: 1987[2] GLH 169 it is held that the proceedings under section
72(1) are in the nature of an appeal in the District Court in the exercise of
appellate jurisdiction is subject to superintendence of the High Court.
Therefore in filing a Letters Patent Appeal against the order of the Single
Judge certificate was required. The judgement considers several decisions of
the Gujarat as well as the Bombay High Court under section 72 of the Act. This
judgement is per incurium being in ignorance of several decisions of the
Supreme Court including judgements by Three Judges of Supreme Court laying the
principle that the appeal being the statutory right is subject to the
limitations provided in the statute creating the right of appeal. The only
consideration in this decision of the Supreme Court is one decision of this
Court reported 13 GLR 181: AIR 1973 (Guj) 15 and two decisions of the Bombay
High Court reported in 1958 (BLR) 894 and 75 (BLR 523: AIR 1974 Bom.40.).
[8] Learned counsels for the appellants submitted that it is not the claim of
the contesting respondents that no appeal lies. Their objection is only to the
scope and width of the appeal. Even if the appeal under section 72(4) is
limited to questions raisable in an appeal under section 100 of CPC, the
grounds submitted in the appeal fall within the scope of section 100.
[9] It is submitted that as the appeal is competent the appeal is required to
be registered under Rule 217 of the Gujarat High Court Rules as First Appeal.
Under Rule 2(2) appeals under special or local acts where the value of the
subject matter before the trial court or Tribunal or other authority does not
exceed Rs.1 lakh or is capable of valuation a Single Judge can dispose of the
same. The claim in this appeal is stated as not capable of monetary
evaluation.
9.3 In view of the above submissions learned counsels for the appellants
submitted that the first appeal would lie to the High Court against the decree
passed by the District Court.
10.0 Before proceeding further, this Court may examine the provisions of
section 96 of Civil Procedure Code which reads as under:
"96. Appeal from original decree - (1) Save where otherwise expressly provided
in the body of this Code or by any other law for the time being in force, an
appeal shall lie from every decree passed by any Court exercising original
jurisdiction to the Court authorized to hear appeals from the decisions of
such Court.
(2) An appeal may lie from an original decree passed ex parte.
(3) No appeal shall lie from a decree passed by the Court with the consent of
parties."
(4) No appeal shall lie, except on a question of law, from a decree in any
suit of the nature cognizable by Courts of Small Causes, when the amount or
value of the subject matter of the original suit does not exceed ten thousand
rupees."
10.1 Thus, section 96 expressly confers a right of appeal from every decree
passed by any court exercising original jurisdiction to the court authorized
to hear appeals from the decision of such court.
10.2 It is well established that a first appeal can be filed under section 96
of the Code against a decree passed by a court exercising original
jurisdiction. Such appeal is maintainable on a question of fact or on a
question of law or on a mixed question of fact and law. It is also a fact that
the right to appeal is available against a decree passed by a court and not
against an order passed by an authority. Thus, under the provisions of CPC,
the requirement to file an appeal before the District Court is that there
should be a decree passed by a court exercising original jurisdiction. It does
not refer to an "order".
10.3 Now it is necessary to look into Section 100 of CPC which reads as under:
"100.
Second Appeal - (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in the body of this
Code or by any other law for the time being in force, an appeal shall lie to
the High Court from every decree passed in appeal by any Court subordinate to
the High Court, if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a
substantial question of law.
(2)
An appeal may lie under this section from an appellate decree passed ex parte.
(3)
In an appeal under this section, the memorandum of appeal shall precisely
state the substantial question of law involved in the appeal.
(4)
Where the High Court is satisfied that a substantial question of law is
involved in any case, it shall formulate that question.
(5)
The appeal shall be heard on the question so formulated and the respondent
shall, at the hearing of the appeal, be allowed to argue that the case does
not involve such question.
Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to take away or
abridge the power of the Court to hear, for reasons to be recorded, the appeal
on any other substantial question of law, not formulated by it, if it is
satisfied that the case involves such question."
10.4 The first appeal lies from a decree passed by a court exercising original
jurisdiction, and a second appeal lies from a decree passed by a court
exercising appellate jurisdiction. The grounds of first appeal and second
appeal are different. Whereas first appeal can be filed on a question of fact,
or of law, or of fact and law, second appeal can lie only on a substantial
question of law. In the first appeal, an appellate court has power to decide
issues of fact, but in second appeal, High Court can decide issues of fact
only in certain cases. Letters Patent appeal is maintainable against a
"judgement' of a Single Judge of a High Court to a Division Bench of the same
Court, but no such appeal is maintainable against a decision of the Single
Judge in Second Appeal.
10.5 It is well settled that where the subject matter of appeal is not a
decree, no second appeal will lie (Kanji Karsandas Thakkar V. Lala Ambu Patil,
AIR 1968 Bom 98: Budh Sen V. Sheel Chandra Agarwal, AIR 1978 All 88, Lal Khan
V. Kashmiri Lal AIR 1930 Lah 125).
10.6 Coming to section 72 of the Act, it reads as under:
"72.
Application from Charity Commissioner's decision under section 40, 41, 41C and
43(2)(a) and (c), 50A, 70 or 70A, etc. [1] Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Charity Commissioner under section 40, 41, 41C and 43(2)(a)
and (c), 50A, 70 or 70A or on the questions whether a trust exists and whether
such trust is a public trust or whether any property is the property of such
trust may, within sixty days from the date of the decision, apply to the Court
to set aside the said decision.
[1A] No party to such application shall be entitled to produce additional
evidence, whether oral or documentary, before the Court unless the Deputy or
Assistant Charity Commissioner or the Charity Commissioner has refused to
admit evidence which ought to have been admitted or the Court requires any
document to be produced or any witness to be examined to enable it to
pronounce judgment or for any other substantial cause the Court thinks it
necessary to allow such additional evidence.
Provided that, whenever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by the
Court, the Court shall record the reason for its admission.
[2] The Court after taking evidence if any, may confirm, revoke or modify the
decision or remit the amount of the surcharge and make such orders as to costs
as it thinks proper in the circumstances.
[3] Pending the disposal of an application under sub-section (2) all
proceedings for surcharge shall be stayed if the person aggrieved makes out a
prima facie case for a stay order.
[4] An appeal shall lie to the High Court against the decision of the Court
under sub-section (2) as if such decision was a decree from which an appeal
ordinarily lies.
Explanation:
In this section, the expression, "decision" shall include a scheme framed or
modified under section 50A."
10.7 Before proceeding further it is required to be noted that the word used
in this section is "decision". It stipulates that "Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Charity Commissioner under section.....". The legislature has
not used the word "decree" obviously because of the fact that the Charity
Commissioner is not subordinate to the District Court in the sense that the
District Court has no power of superintendence over the Charity Commissioner.
Further, this section also does not stipulate that it is an appeal.
10.8 On the contrary the section itself stipulates that "Application from
Charity Commissioner's decision under section 40, 41, 41C and 43(2)(a) and
(c), 50A, 70 or 70A, etc." If it was the intention that it should be an
appeal, the nomenclature would have been "Appeal" and not "Application". This
is further evident from the fact that application filed before the District
Court is called as "Civil Misc. Application" and not "Civil Misc. Appeal". In
the case of Civil Procedure Code, against a decree of the lower court, a
"Civil Misc. Appeal" would lie to the District Court and not "Civil Misc.
Application".
10.9 It is important to note that under the provisions of CPC, the requirement
to file an appeal before the District Court is that there should be a decree
passed by a court exercising original jurisdiction. It does not refer to an
"order". In the present case there is no "decree" of the Charity Commissioner,
Charity Commissioner is not subordinate to the District Court (AIR 1973
Guj.15) and the Section itself stipulates that only an "application" would lie
to the District Court and even the nomenclature is "Civil Misc. application".
In the entire section there is no word "appeal", but it is an "application".
Therefore there is a clear and distinct stipulation that only an "application"
would lie to the District court.
10.10 The above aspect is further strengthened by subsection (4) of section 72
which stipulates that "An appeal shall lie to the High Court against the
decision of the Court under sub-section (2) as if such decision was a decree
from which an appeal ordinarily lies". Here the Legislature has thought it fit
to use the word "decree" which would mean that the decree comes at the level
of District Court only and not at the level of Charity Commissioner. Therefore
once again section 96 is required to be seen. Section 96 expressly confers a
right of appeal from every decree passed by any court exercising original
jurisdiction to the court authorized to hear appeals from the decision of such
court.
10.11 It is also required to be noted that if the Legislative intent is to
treat the challenge to the "decision" of the Charity Commissioner as an
appeal, the wording should have been "appeal" and not "application". The clear
intention of the Legislature was to treat the decision of the District Court
as a decree in the first instance and therefore subsection (4) says that an
appeal shall lie to the High Court against the decision of the Court under
sub-section (2) as if such decision was a decree from which an appeal
ordinarily lies. "An appeal ordinarily lies" would mean a "First Appeal" and
it can never be treated to be a "Second Appeal". The very fact that the word
"decision" as mentioned in subsections (1), (2) and (4) indicates that the
decision of the Charity Commissioner is an "order". If the intent of the
Legislature to treat the application as an appeal, it would have stated as
"decree" in the very subsection also, in which case sub-section (4) cannot say
that it would be an "appeal".
10.12 Therefore even if provisions of CPC is applicable, the provisions of
subsection (4) of Section 72 clearly indicate that it is an appeal against a
decree in the first instance as the District Court entertains only a decision
in an application to the District Court.
10.13 In the case of Ramchandra Goverdhan V.
Charity Commissioner, (1987)3 SCC 273: AIR 1987 SC 1598, a similar question
arose before the Supreme Court. Under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950, an
order was passed by the Charity Commissioner. An application under section 72
of the Act was dismissed by the City Civil Court and first appeal against that
order was dismissed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court. A Letters
Patent Appeal was then filed by the appellant without seeking leave of the
learned Single Judge (Goverdhan V. Charity Commissioner (1987)3 SCC 273: AIR
1987 SC 1598. Thereafter the appellant approached the Supreme Court.
10.14 The question before the Supreme Court was whether an appeal before the
Single Judge of the High Court was in the nature of First Appeal or Second
Appeal which depended on the power exercised by the City Civil Court. The
Single Judge heard and disposed of the appeal in the exercise of appellate
jurisdiction by a court subject to the superintendence of the High Court. The
Supreme Court held that the Charity Commissioner exercised appellate power.
The absence of the word "appeal" in Section 72 was not decisive. Virtually,
therefore, it was a Second Appeal before a Single Judge of the High Court and
hence, no Letters Patent Appeal was maintainable without a certificate of
fitness by the Single Judge. This view is reiterated in the case of Naranbhai
Dayabhai V. Suleman Isubji, reported in AIR 1996 SC 1184, and in the case of
Pravez Rustomji V.
Navrojji Sorabji, reported in AIR 2001 Guj 160.
10.15 In view of the aforesaid decision even if it is to be considered that
the appeal before the High Court is a Second Appeal, even then if a
certificate is issued a Letters Patent Appeal would lie against the decision
of the Single Judge. It is therefore very clear that it is only for the
convenience and nomenclature that the appeal is called "Second Appeal" and if
such appeal is to be treated as Second Appeal similar to Second Appeal under
the provisions of CPC, then no Letters Patent Appeal would lie against the
decision of the Single Judge. Therefore even according to the aforesaid
decision, in fact and substance the appeal in High Court is a First Appeal,
and if a certificate is issued, a letters patent appeal would lie to consider
the substantial question of law which is similar to the provisions of Second
Appeal. It is required to be noted that if it is a Second Appeal, no Letters
Patent Appeal would lie even if certificate is issued.
10.16 At this stage it would be advantageous to refer to a Full Bench decision
of this Court in the case of Prabhashankar Shankarlal Joshi and others,
reported in 1984 GLH 662 wherein it is held that if a provision of one statute
is incorporated in another, any subsequent amendment in the former statute
would not affect the provision as incorporated in the latter statute. On the
facts of the case it was held that the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 mentioned
in the Rent Act and the Rules made thereunder, would be that Code as it stood
in 1953 when it came to be incorporated in the Rent Act and not as mentioned
in 1976. An appeal would, therefore, lie against the determination of any
question under Section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure in execution
proceedings under the Bombay Rent Act and the Rules made thereunder on the
principle of incorporation. Therefore even if the contention of preliminary
objection is upheld, Second Appeal as of 1950 only will lie.
10.17 At this stage it may also be relevant to refer to a decision in the case
of Miya Mohamed Abdulkarim Jariwala Vs. Collector of Surat, reported in
1976(0) GLHEL-HC-207766 wherein it is held that the government land cannot
become wakf property by long user, an appeal is provided to High Court against
the decision of the District Court, the appeal can lie on questions of fact
against decision of District Court, and limitations provided under section 100
on jurisdiction of court cannot be read in section 72(4) of the Act.
10.18 For the forgoing reasons I am of the opinion that though by nomenclature
it is a second appeal, in substance the appeal to the High Court should be
treated as a First Appeal for all purposes and not as a Second Appeal and
therefore I hold accordingly.
CONTENTIONS ON MERITS 11.0 Mr.
S.B. Vakil, Mr. K.S. Nanavati and Mr. Mihir Joshi, learned Senior Counsels
appearing for the appellant raised the following contentions:
11.1 The lower court has held that the Charity Commissioner did not give
notice under section 50A(1) of the Act, which requires that the Charity
Commissioner may frame a scheme "after giving the trustees of such trust due
opportunity to be heard". The requirement of the Act is not to issue any
notice under section 50(A) and therefore the point required to be considered
was not whether the Charity Commissioner has issued any notice, but was
whether the trustees, if any, were required to be given due opportunity to be
heard. It is submitted that for giving due opportunity of being heard no
notice as such may be necessary.
11.2 The Court below in paragraph 24 of the judgement accepted the contention
that in 1994 Law Suit (Bom) No.291) (AIR 1994 Bom. 422) decided on 22.07.1994
the Bombay High Court held that notice must be given before initiating the
inquiry and that in the instant case no notice was given to the trust and
trustees. However, the trial court has not recorded any finding in terms of
section 50A(1) that due opportunity to be heard was not given to the trustees
of such trust.
11.3 The decision of the Bombay High Court was a case of amalgamation of
trusts by framing a common scheme for two or more public trusts governed by
section 50(A)(2) of the Act, Clause (a) whereof requires publication of a
notice in the Official Gazette and therefore the said decision is not
applicable to framing a scheme under section 50(A)(1) of the Act.
11.4 When the Charity Commissioner initiated inquiry there was only one
trustee viz. Dinesh M. Patel, who was served with a notice and he appeared and
filed objections dated 11.08.2008. The members of the Governing Body were not
trustees. The rules and regulations of the society framed on 20.4.1963 show
that the management vested in trustees and governing body. Clause 9(1) deals
with trustees and clause 9(2) deals with the Governing Body. The Director of
Schools is not a trustee. The attempt made to amend the rules and regulations
were not successful. Iraben who is Assistant Director of the school has given
consent on 8.3.2009 to act as trustee in her capacity as a Director of the
school has no meaning.
11.5 After referring to definitions of "Manager" and "Trustee" it is contended
that in the definition of "Trustee" the words "includes the manager" go with a
person in whom the trust property is vested. Therefore a manager in whom the
trust property is not vested is not a trustee within the meaning of section
2(18) of the Act. Clause (9)(1) of the Rules and Regulations provides that
trustee shall have the charge of permanent funds and property of the society
and property shall stand on the names of the trustees. Clause 11 of the Rules
and Regulations provides for the powers and duties of the Governing Body. It
is submitted that there is no provision in the Rules and Regulations providing
for vesting the trust property in the Governing Body.
11.6 The contesting respondents have relied upon entry in the Public Trust
Register of the names of the members of the Governing Body. It is submitted
that the same shows that the concerned persons are trustees. Under section
18(5)(a)(i) the application for registration of a public trust is required to
mention the names and addresses of the trustees and the manager. Under section
19 of the Act in an inquiry for registration of the trust, the names and
addresses of the trustees and manager of such trust are required to be
ascertained. Therefore, the names of the manager/s would also be entered in
the P.T. Register.
11.7 The Court below has erred in relying upon the proposed amendment to the
Rules and Regulations (Memorandum of Association) of the Society, Rule 3(b)
whereof provides that the director of the school shall be one of the trustees.
This amendment does not make all members of the Governing Body also the
Trustees. Further, the Charity Commissioner by his order dated 24.11.2008 set
aside the Deputy Charity Commissioner's order approving the Change Report.
11.8 The trial court has erred in holding that notice ought to have been
issued even prior to initiating proceedings for framing the Scheme under
section 50A of the Act and that in the absence of such notice the initiation
of proceedings was vitiated by breach of principles of natural justice. This
finding is contrary to the finding of the Court in view of the documentary
evidence on record, irregularities were found in the accounts and there was
mismanagement of the Trust and therefore the Charity Commissioner had
requisite reason to believe that it was in the interest and proper management
of the trust to settle the Scheme. It is required to be noted that before
issuing notice Inquiry Officer has recorded statement of Shri Dinesh Patel
where all irregularities were admitted and thereafter the report was
submitted.
11.9 In any case the proceedings for framing the Scheme can be initiated by
the Charity Commissioner upon "reason to believe" that it would be in the
interest of and the proper management or administration of the trust which
therefore depends upon his opinion to be founded on relevant facts and held in
good faith, and does not contemplate any inquiry and hearing of the concerned
parties at that stage. In this connection reliance was placed in the case of
Asst. Collector of Customs Vs. Charan Das Malhotra, reported in 1971(1) SCC
697, and in the case of S. Narayanappa and others V. The Commissioner of
Income-tax, reported in 1967 SC 523.
11.10 The Court below has erred in holding that the order of the Charity
Commissioner regarding framing a Scheme in respect of the Trust was vitiated
on account of breach of principles of natural justice since no notice was
issued to the other Trustees whose names appeared in the PTR. The PTR did not
contain the names of any Trustees of the Society right from inception i.e.
1.8.1963 and the persons whose names were shown in column 3 of the PTR were
members of the Governing Body and not Trustees and the two could not have been
equated.
11.11 The Change Report 1458/1990 on the basis of which the Court has held
that the names of Trustees were added in the PTR, did not relate to Trustees
at all but to members of the Governing Body which is evident from the Change
Report and the consent letters of the concerned persons itself.
11.12 Iraben Desai and others had notice of the pending proceedings and could
have availed the opportunity of being heard on account of (1) public notice
being issued in the newspaper regarding the proceedings on 7.8.2006, (2)
reference to pendency of Scheme proceedings under suo motu Application
No.14/2005 was made in the order of the Charity Commissioner in Appeal
No.14/2007 dated 24.11.2008 wherein Iraben Desai was a party, (3) application
dated 9.3.2009 and lists of documents dated 18.3.2009 submitted by advocate
Atul Joshi claiming to represent Iraben Desai and others in the proceedings as
is clear from the title of the said documents and accepted by Iraben Desai
herself in her rejoinder in CMA 614/2009 and (4) application dated 18.6.2009
filed by Atul Joshi on behalf of Iraben for staying the operation of the order
of the Charity Commissioner dated 10.6.2009. Having notice of the proceedings
and having chosen not to appear or participate in the proceedings, Iraben
Desai and others are now estopped from raising any objection regarding want of
notice and must be deemed to have waived their rights in respect of issuance
of notice and opportunity of being heard.
11.13 When the PTR did not reflect the correct state of affairs and there was
obvious ambiguity about the status of the name contained in column 3 of the
PTR and when the Charity Commissioner had reason to believe that change in the
Governing Body and Memorandum/Rules were not being reported, the issuance of a
public notice regarding the proceedings for framing a Scheme in respect of the
Trust, would amount to substantial compliance with the provisions of law.
11.14 The Court has fundamentally erred in considering the issue of breach of
principles of natural justice on the premise that Iraben Desai and others were
Trustees of the Trust and that they were sought to be removed by the Charity
Commissioner by framing the Scheme. Iraben Desai and others were at no point
of time Trustees of the trust and no Change Report seeks to add their names as
Trustees and Iraben cannot claim to be a Trustee as Director of the
institution since the provisions regarding the Director automatically becoming
a Trustee was in the amended Memorandum/Rules which change has not been
approved by the authorities. Additionally she was only the Assistant Director
and there is no evidence to establish her due appointment as Director.
11.15 The trial court has committed an error in overlooking the fact that
Iraben Desai and others having submitted their consent letters in the
proceedings of Suo Motu Scheme Application No.14/2005 for being appointed as
Trustees of the Ankur Society Trust, they have acquiesced in the validity of
the proceedings, requirement/necessity of framing a Scheme for the Trust and
the necessity of appointing Trustees and are therefore, estopped from
questioning the legality of the proceedings only after their names were not
accepted for appointment as Trustees by the Charity Commissioner. Reliance was
placed upon a decision in the case of Dhananjay Malik and Ors Vs. State of
Uttaranchal, reported in 2008(4) SCC 171.
12.0 Mr.
Mihir Thakore, Mr. S.N. Soparkar and Mr. N.D. Nanavati, learned Senior
Counsels appearing for the respondents raised the following contentions:
12.1 No notice of framing of the scheme was never served upon respondents no.1
and 10 to 13. Before proceeding to frame the Scheme all the trustees whose
names appear in the PTR of the Trust are required to be served with the notice
of framing of the scheme under section 50A of the Bombay Public Trust Act. All
the Trustees would not get the due opportunity of hearing if they are not
served with the notice. In the instant case admittedly no notice has been
served upon respondents no.1 and 10 to 13. In this connection reliance is
placed on decisions in the case of Canara Bank and others Vs. Debasis Das and
others, reported in 2003(4) SCC 557, Commissioner of Central Excise, Bangalore
V. Brindavan Beverages (P) Ltd, reported in 2007(5) SCC 388 and Food
Corporation of India V. State of Punjab and others, reported in 2001(1) SCC
291.
12.2 The first and foremost requirement of the provisions under section 50A of
the Act is recording of a subjective satisfaction by the Charity Commissioner
that he has reason to believe that in the interest of proper management or
administration of a public trust, the Scheme should be settled. The words
"reason to believe" in the context of Scheme 50A would imply only a tentative
belief by the Charity Commissioner that the Scheme should be settled. After
giving hearing to the trustees on the facts on the basis of which he has
reason to believe, he will have to come to a final conclusion that the Scheme
is required to be settled and that he has to proceed to frame the Scheme. The
language of Section 50A of the Act itself provides that the Charity
Commissioner should proceed to frame a Scheme under section 50A of the Act
after giving an opportunity to be heard to the trustees of the Trust
concerned.
12.3 The show cause notice which has been issued in the public advertisement
dated 13.8.2006 in the newspaper merely recites the statutory language of
section 50A of the Bombay Public Trust Act and it is well settled law that
mere reproduction of words of section in the show cause notice for
commencement of suo-motu inquiry can never amount to sufficient compliance of
law and at least some factual data and material sought to be relied upon must
find place in the show cause notice issued to the trustees. Therefore there is
violation of principles of natural justice.
12.4 The Charity Commissioner before initiating the scheme under section 50-A
requires to issue summons and requires to follow all the procedures as
envisaged under the Code of Civil Procedure. The Charity Commissioner has to
follow the procedure applicable to a Civil Court in trial of suits. Gujarat
High Court, in the case of Jaymal Thakore Vs. Charity Commissioner of Gujarat,
reported in 2001 (3) GLR 2124 has clearly held that proceedings before the
Charity Commissioner have all the trappings of a regular court and provisions
of the Code of Civil Procedure are applicable in the proceedings before the
Charity Commissioner.
12.5 In framing the scheme,modifying it and in taking decision in that regard,
the Charity Commissioner has to hear the parties, record the evidence and take
a formal decision which is subject to scrutiny by a Civil Court under section
72(1) of the Act.
12.6 In course of framing of a scheme, there is likelihood of dispute being
raised as to the nature of the trust and trust properties and the Charity
Commissioner has to record formal decision on the basis of evidence and the
material led before him. However, in the instant case the Charity Commissioner
has not followed the procedure as envisaged under Order V of the Code of Civil
Procedure and without issuing any summons/notice, the Scheme has been framed
without giving any opportunity of hearing to respondents no.1, 10 to 13.
Therefore the City Civil Court has rightly set aside the scheme framed by the
Charity Commissioner and therefore the said order of the City Civil Court is
not required to be interfered with and the appeal is required to be dismissed.
12.7 That the learned Charity Commissioner had served notice of Change Reports
No. 1140 of 2004 and 438 of 2004 to the present respondents No. 1 and 10 to 13
on 09.11.2006 as trustees. i.e. much after initiating the suo-motu proceedings
under Section 50-A of the Act. However, considering the fact that notice of
the Change Report is required to be served upon all the trustees, at the stage
of initiation of the scheme under Section 50-A of the Act, no notice has been
served by the Joint Charity Commissioner and this would clearly show that
there is total non-application of mind on the part of the Charity Commissioner
and the Charity Commissioner has acted with oblique motive, in initiating the
scheme, as he himself has issued notice much after the other change reports to
the present respondent No.5 after initiating the scheme.
12.8 The Charity Commissioner has acted not only illegally but also malafide,
as two unknown persons one Mr. Prakash Gheesalal Sharma who is petitioner NO.
2 herein one Mr. Vijay Mehta as well as his lawyer Mr. Vijay Desai, had been
issued notice by the Charity Commissioner on 18.05.2009 indicating to them
that the next date for hearing to frame a scheme is kept on 21.05.2009, even
though the above persons are absolute strangers to the Ankur Trust. However,
malafide, they have been issued notice by the Charity Commissioner and though
the respondents No. 1 and 10 to 13 herein are trustees and whose names appear
in the PTR, have not been issued notice.
12.9 The Charity Commissioner before appointing the trustees has not checked
the credentials of the persons who sought to be appointed in place of the
existing trustees. The Bombay High Court in the decision reported in 2006(2)
BCR 294 has held that it is needless to state that while appointing the
Members of the First Managing Committee, the paramount consideration that
should weigh with the learned Assistant Charity Commissioner is safeguarding
the interest of the Trust and for that it was necessary to appoint fit persons
with honesty and integrity and for that it was necessary for the Charity
Commissioner to have first obtained bio-data and consents and after examining
the credentials of such persons to have appointed the Members of the First
Managing Committee. However, in the instant case the Charity Commissioner has
appointed the new Managing Committee/Trustees without examining the credential
of the persons who are to be so appointed in place of existing trustees.
Therefore, the City Civil Court has rightly set aside the order framing the
scheme by the Charity Commissioner and therefore the said order of the City
Civil Court is not required to be interfered with and the appeals are required
to be dismissed.
12.10 It is submitted that the Charity Commissioner has without applying his
mind and only on the basis of affidavit of one Bhavarlal Sharma (i.e. who is
having history of criminal antecedents), who had claimed himself to be the
Chairman of the Ankur Trust, appointed seven persons without examining their
credentials, as suggested by Bhavarlal Sharma in his affidavit, for the reason
that Bhavarlal Sharma is managing the affairs of the trust as a Chairman since
2004. Therefore, the Charity Commissioner without arriving at his own
subjective satisfaction, has appointed seven persons as trustees, as suggested
by Bhavarlal Sharma, which cannot be said to be the correct application of
mind on the part of the Charity Commissioner and there is no subjective
satisfaction on the part of the Charity Commissioner in appointing the seven
persons as suggested by Bhanvarlal Sharma in place of existing trustees.
Therefore, the City Civil Court has rightly set aside the scheme framed by the
Charity Commissioner and therefore the said order of the learned City Civil
Court is not required to be interfered with and the apeal is required to be
dismissed.
12.11 Bhavarlal Sharma has claimed himself to be the Chairman of the Ankur
Trust. However, the Change Report which has been submitted by late Dineshbhai
Patel being Change Report No.373 of 2004 through which Bhavarlal Sharma and
four other trustees have been appointed as Trustees in the Ankur Trust has
actually been tampered with.
12.12 It is submitted that late Dinesh Patel had filed Change Report No.373 of
2004 before the Dy.Charity Commissioner praying for deletion of the trustees
and in their place, inclusion of 5 trustees of the trust. Not only that but
late Shri Dinesh Patel in connivance with other accused Vijay Mehta and
advocate Atul Joshi, also produced forged resignation letters bearing
signature of four trustees i.e. Respondents no 10 to 13 herein. It is
submitted that all these documents had been forged by five persons whose names
are sought to be included in the PTR of the said trust. 5 Trustees who are
going to be benefited by way of present Change reports are Kamleshkumar
Ramanlal Gandhi, Sanghvi Dipakbhai Chhotalal, Shivkumar R.Chauhan, Rajesh
Kantilal Shah and Bhanvarlal G.Sharma.
12.13 It is submitted that names of all those 5 Trustees are sought to be
included in the PTR in spite of knowing fully well that none of the four
existing trustees had ever given their resignation as trustees from the Trust,
by creating their forged signature, their resignation letters have been
submitted before the Dy. Charity Commissioner so as to see that 5 names which
have been given above can be included in the PTR of the said trust. By forging
the order of the Dy. Charity Commissioner Bhavarlal Sharma and five other
persons had become trustees of the trust and even the said change report has
been tampered with by Bhavarlal Sharma and five other persons and since forged
resignation letter of the present respondent No.1 has been created, the
respondent herein had preferred an appeal before the Charity Commissioner
being Appeal No.19 of 2004 and the said appeal came to be allowed by the
Charity Commissioner and the Charity Commissioner had quashed the Change
Report No.373 of 2004 and therefore, even otherwise Bhavarlal Sharma was not a
Chairman of the Ankur Trust and though knowing this fully well the Charity
Commissioner had not only accepted the affidavit of Bhavarlal Sharma in toto
but relying only on the said affidavit, the scheme has been framed and seven
persons have been appointed as trustees in place of existing trustees and
therefore, the order framing the scheme has been rightly set aside by the
learned City Civil Court and therefore, the impugned order is not required to
be interfered with.
12.14 For aforesaid tampering i.e. of the order of the Dy. Charity
Commissioner and for forging the of resignation letters of four trustees of
the Ankur Trust, a Criminal Complaint being I-CR No.149 of 2005 was lodged
with the Ellisbridge Police Station on 8/3/2005. Therefore, the Charity
Commissioner without examining the record of he case, malafide framed the
scheme and that too within a period of 24 days after the production of the
affidavit of Bhavarlal Sharma dtd.16/5/2009. Therefore, the City Civil Court
has rightly set aside the scheme framed by the Charity Commissioner and
therefore the said order of the learned City Civil Court is not required to be
interfered with and the appeal is required to be dismissed.
12.15 Even if the allegations against the trustees about mismanagement of the
trust are to be considered, then, trustees against whom allegations have been
made with regard to mismanagement of the fund, enquiries are required to be
made and those trustees are required to be made after making proper enquiries
and the Charity Commissioner is empowered to do so of removing the said
trustees against whom there are allegations of mismanagement of fund. However,
for that new scheme cannot be framed nor suo-motu inquiry can be initiated to
frame a scheme u/s 50A of the Act. Therefore, the Charity Commissioner has
miserably failed to understand the difference between the same of removing the
trustees and framing of the scheme. Therefore, the City Civil Court has
rightly set aside order framing the scheme by the Charity Commissioner and
therefore the said order of the learned City Civil Court is not required to be
interfered with.
12.16 It is the contention that one Atul Joshi had appeared on behalf of
Iraben Desai and other persons. It could be seen from the record that when the
affidavit of Bhavarlal Sharma was produced by one Mr.Prakash Sharma,
endorsement was made by Mr.Atul Joshi with regard to objection of producing
the said document on 16/5/2009. However, from the record it can be seen that
the very same advocate Atul Joshi had filed Purshis on 21/5/2009 withdrawing
his objection which he had raised on the earlier occasion. This would clearly
show that the said Atul Joshi, Advocate had been won over by the present
Appellants. Even otherwise, the said Atul Joshi was never advocate of
respondents No. 1 and 10 to 13 herein who had represented before the Charity
Commissioner and the said advocate had only represented late Dineshbhai M.
Patel before the Charity Commissioner. Therefore, by no stretch of imagination
it can be said that the present respondents No. 1 and 10 to 13 were aware
about the proceedings which had been initiated by the Charity Commissioner.
Therefore, the City Civil Court has rightly set aside the order framing the
scheme by the Charity Commissioner and therefore the said order of the learned
City Civil Court is not required to be interfered with.
12.17 Recourse to section 50A is misconceived. The section 50A applied where
the charity commissioner has reason to believe that in the interest of proper
management or the administration of public trust a scheme should be settled
for it. Where in place of a trust there is no deficiency or lacuna in the
trust deed but the problem remained with its management by the trustees, the
Charity Commissioner cannot invoke section 50 A and replace the scheme when
what he has to do is to replace the trustees unless there is a finding that
the existing trust deed is not conducive to benefit the charity, the charity
commissioner can not change the trust deed which is the document by which the
settler has created the trust. In the present case though there is no finding
much less any decision to that effect by the charity commissioner in the
order. The allegations and disputes leveled or made in the order of the
charity commissioner are therefore outside the purview of section 50A. The
said order passed by the Charity Commissioner is therefore without any
jurisdiction.
12.18 It would be evident from the definition of 'Manager' that the manager
must be such who for the time being either along with or in association with
some other person or persons administers the trust property. Therefore, unless
the Governing Body administers the trust property it cannot be treated as a
manager. A mere perusal of the definition of 'trustee' would clearly establish
that every manager as defined under section 2(8) would be a Trustee. Therefore
one who administers the trust property is manager and such manager is a
trustee. The manager whose name appears in the PTR is the manager as defined
under section 2(8) and consequently a "trustee". As the names of the Governing
Body appear in the PTR from day one and there is no separate list of trustee
from day one the Governing Body members are Trustees and the entries in the
PTR are final and conclusive.
12.19 If the Governing Body was not Manager and Trustee as defined under
section 2(8) and 2(18) there would have been no scope for their name to appear
in the PTR.
12.20 Recourse to section 50A is misconceived. The section 50A applied where
the Charity Commissioner has reason to believe that in the interest of proper
management or the administration of public trust a scheme should be settled
for it. Where in place of a trust there is no deficiency or lacuna in the
trust deed but the problem lay with its management by the trustees, the
Charity Commissioner cannot invoke section 50A and replace the scheme when
what he has to do is to replace the trustees unless there is a finding that
the existing trust deed is not conductive to benefit the charity, the Charity
Commissioner cannot change the trust deed which is the document by which the
settler has created the trust. In the present case there is no finding much
less any decision to that effect by the Charity Commissioner in the order. The
allegations and disputes levelled or made in the order of the Charity
Commissioner are, therefore, outside the purview of section 50A. The said
order passed by the Charity Commissioner, therefore, is without any
jurisdiction.
12.21 Brief analysis of section 50A (1) shows that it is in two parts and both
lay down conditions which are condition precedent before action to frame the
scheme can be taken. The first condition precedent is that the charity
commissioner should form a reason to believe that in the interest of proper
management and administration of public trust, a scheme should be settled for
it and, therefore, on that basis and information the charity commissioner may
receive such reasons to believe must be formed. The second condition precedent
is that before taking any further action he must give notice of proposed
action to the trustees of such trust and give them opportunity to be heard.
The fact that notice must be given before commencing action and not during the
course of such action becomes clear when the words "after giving the trustees
of such trust due opportunities to be heard" appears before the words "it is
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do...." Satisfaction must
follow the notice and not vice versa. If the legislature intends otherwise the
words " after giving the trustees of such trust due opportunities to be heard"
would have appeared in the latter part of the section after the words
necessary or expedient so to do" and before the words frame a scheme". In the
present case no notice is given much less notice of proposed action.
12.22 No notice of framing of the scheme was ever served upon Respondents no.
1 and 10 to 13. Before proceeding to frame the Scheme all the trustees whose
names appear in the PTR of the Trust are required to be served with the notice
of framing of the scheme U/s 50A of the Act.
12.23 No subjective satisfaction was recorded by the Charity Commissioner that
he has reason to believe that in the interest of proper management or
administration of a public trust Scheme should be settled.
12.24 It is contended that the show cause notice which has been issued in the
public advertisement datd.13/8/2006 in the news paper named "Sandesh" merely
recites the statutory language of sec. 50A of the Bombay Public Trust Act
("The Act" for short). He submitted that this Court in its decision reported
in AIR 2004 (Gujarat) 147, relying upon the earlier decision of the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court in the case of Tahir Ali M. Punewala Vs. Kwaizer Sheikh
Nomanbhai and others, reported in AIR 1995 Bombay 422, has clearly held that
mere reproduction of words of section in the show cause notice for
commencement of suo-motu inquiry can never amount to sufficient compliance of
law and at least some factual data and material sought to be relied on must
find place in the show cause notice issued to the trustees. He has also relied
upon the following decisions.
1\. AIR 2004 Gujarat 147 (Shree Dwarka Lohana Mahajan Sada-Vrut Fund V. Joint
Charity Commissioner.
2\. AIR 1974 Gujarat 129 (Shri Bipinchandra Purshottamdas Patel and others V.
Jashwant Lalbhai Naik and another.
3\. AIR 1995 Bombay 422 (Taher Alimohohamad Poonawala V. Zuizar Shaikh
Nomanbhoy and others
4\. 2007(2) GLR 1716 (Chhotubhai L. Patel V. State of Gujarat) 13.0 In
response to the contentions raised by the learned Senior Advocates for the
respondents, learned Senior Advocates appearing for appellant submitted as
under:
13.1 As regards the contention that there were no Trustees of Ankur Society
Trust from the beginning is concerned, there was a Governing Body of the
Society and under section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, the property
vested in such Governing Body and they were therefore Trustees of the Trust
under section 2(18) of the Act and entitled to be heard in the Scheme
proceedings. According to the counsel, the application for registration of the
Trust, consents submitted to the Charity Commissioner for appointment as
Trustees and the mode of succession recorded in the PTR indicates that the 8
persons named in the PTR at the time of registration claimed to be Trustees of
the Trust. Their names were not entered in the PTR as members of the Governing
Body at all as claimed by the respondents.
13.2 In so far as the respondents are concerned, their names have been entered
in the PTR specifically as members of the Governing Body which is evident from
Change Report No.1458/1990 and the consent letters of the persons agreeing to
be members of the Governing Body. There is no resolution passed by the Trust,
nor any change report filed or any consent given by the Respondents regarding
their appointment as Trustees and even the procedure prescribed in the
Memorandum for appointment of Trustees has not been adopted. Therefore,
irrespective of the status of the first 8 persons in the PTR, it is beyond
dispute that the respondents were and are not Trustees of the Trust and do not
have any right per se to be heard in the Scheme proceedings.
13.3 The law recognizes a concept that a Trustee in the legal and technical
sense who alone is entitled to claim a right of an opportunity of hearing in
the Scheme proceedings. The law also recognizes the concept of a Trustee de-
son-tort i.e. a Trustee on account of his own wrong of intermeddling with the
Trust property. However, such a Trustee does not have a right in respect of
the property of the Trust but an obligation to account for his conduct and he
cannot thereby claim a right akin to a legally appointed Trustee of being
heard in the Scheme proceedings. In this connection reliance is placed on the
decision in the case of Sheikh Abdul Kanum and Others V. Mulla Alibhai and
others, reported in AIR 1963 SC 309 and in the case of Sanis, Goregaonkar V.
B.V. Nerurkar and others, reported in AIR 1937 Bombay 374.
13.4. The respondents were never and are not the Trustees of the Trust and
therefore cannot claim a right to be heard in the Scheme proceedings.
According to learned counsel, in light of the findings that the management and
administration of the Trust was not being done in a manner required under its
unamended Memorandum and Rules and Regulations, and the fact that the PTR did
not reflect true state of affairs and the Society was itself claiming contrary
to the PTR, issuance of a public notice regarding initiation of Scheme
proceedings is adequate compliance with principles of natural justice in the
facts of the case.
13.5 The nature of the proceedings as contemplated under the Act are explained
in the case of Bipinchandra Purshottamdas Patel V. Jashwant Lalbhai Naik,
reported in XV (1974) GLR 411. It is held that under Section 50A there is no
procedure prescribed nor any mandate to hold enquiry but only that an
opportunity of hearing has to be given to the Trustees. The section also
requires "satisfaction" of the Charity Commissioner that it is necessary or
expedient to frame a Scheme for the management and administration of the
Trust. Therefore the proceedings are neither equivalent to suit proceedings
nor do the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code apply.
13.6 As regards the contention that the proceedings before the Charity
Commissioner were vitiated, it is submitted that as is evident from the
Rojkam, the Scheme proceedings had not proceeded from 11.6.2008 when
Dineshbhai Patel had filed his affidavit. After almost one year the matter
appears to have been taken on board and various documents received have been
exhibited. In the absence of any dispute that Iraben and others had consented
for being appointed as Trustees under the Scheme being framed by the Charity
Commissioner and authorizing the Advocate to take up the matter on board and
submit consent letters it is obvious that they have acquiesced in the
proceedings. There is no interpolation of dates and the correct dates of all
applications are mentioned and the Rojkam also indicates as to when the same
were taken on board. The conduct of the Advocate as on 18th May 2009 has not
been complained of in any manner and he was obviously acting in the interest
of the respondents. He therefore submitted that there is no merit in the
contention that the proceedings before the Charity Commissioner were vitiated.
13.7 As regards the contention that the respondents can support the decree on
grounds which have been held against them in the judgement and do not need to
file cross-objections in the Appeal, such contention overlooks the fact that
the order of the Charity Commissioner was challenged only by Iraben and the
respondents herein were the respondents in the said CMA. They did not file
appeal against the order of the Charity Commissioner and the question of
cross-objection would not arise since Iraben herself was challenging the order
and the respondents did not have any averse interest to her. Since they have
not filed any appeal, they must be deemed to have acquiesced in the order of
the Charity Commissioner. He submitted that in an appeal against the order
passed in CMA, except Iraben, the other respondents do not have any right to
raise any contention supporting the order since they have acquiesced in and
accepted the order of the Charity Commissioner. He further submitted that if
the contention of the Appellants that Iraben had acquiesced in the Scheme
proceedings by submitting her consent to be appointed as Trustee and had also
waived her right to be heard is accepted, it would be unjust, inequitable and
illegal to permit other respondents who had not challenged the order of the
Charity Commissioner, to support the order of CMA setting aside the order of
the Charity Commissioner at this stage.
13.8 He submitted that the question in this appeal is whether an employee of
the Trust can be a Trustee or not. According to him the remuneration
contemplated under the Act is akin to honorarium for working as Trustee and
not for employment under the trust. The question whether an employee who has
intermeddled with the Trust property and taken benefit of the Trust funds can
claim a right to be appointed as Trustee would still have to be answered on
facts.
13.9 That what the section requires is that the Charity Commissioner should be
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient to frame a Scheme. The test is
whether such satisfaction has been duly arrived at on the basis of facts which
are available on record. Whether a reviewing Court would have arrived at the
same conclusion is not relevant. In this case, the satisfaction cannot be said
to be vitiated on any count. The Charity Commissioner has noted that there
were discrepancies in accounts, non-maintenance of statutory records, non-
compliance with reporting procedures and in fact the administration and
management of the Trust was being done de hors its Memorandum and Rules and
Regulations.
13.10 In case of argument that reason to believe, the same must be recorded
prior to issuance of the Notice. The authority must have a reason to believe
which must precede the issuance of notice. In the present case such reasons
have been recorded in the Notice itself and the facts establish that a
preliminary enquiry was also undertaken by the authority and therefore there
is no flaw in the issuance of the Notice.
13.11 As regards the argument that even at the stage prior to issuance of
Notice, the Trustees ought to have been heard as held in the case of Shri
Bipinchandra Purshottamdas Patel V. Jashwant Lalbhai Naik, reported in AIR
1974 Guj.129, this judgement does not support the proposition. He submitted
that a preliminary inquiry was conducted by the authority.
13.12 What the section mandates is that the Charity Commissioner should be
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient to frame a Scheme. The test is
whether such satisfaction has been duly arrived at on the basis of facts which
are available on record. Whether a reviewing Court would have arrived at the
same conclusion is not relevant. In this case, the satisfaction cannot be said
to be vitiated on any count. This is clearly admitted by the respondents on
their own contentions. He therefore submitted that the satisfaction is not
vitiated. He further submitted that in so far as the scheme and Trustees
appointed thereunder are concerned, the same by itself cannot be the subject
matter of review in the present appeal. He has further submitted that in fact
the mismanagement and mal-administration of the Trust being a matter of record
as also the fact that the same was being done dehors the Memorandum/Rules, the
necessity of framing a Scheme is writ large and even the claim of the breach
of natural justice must fail on the test of prejudice.
14.0 After hearing the parties the first question now to be decided is whether
there was sufficient reason to initiate suo motu proceedings by the Charity
Commissioner or not. Before proceeding further, it would be advantageous to
look into the duties and responsibilities of the Trustees of the Trust.
14.1 When a person agrees to take on a position as trustee, or member of
Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as Trustee) he or she must be aware
of the duties that are imposed on him by virtue of his office and also by
statute law. The trustee should comply with the terms of the trust and with
any laws that are attached to the administration of the trust. A trustee must
not breach any duty he has towards the trust. He shall not put at risk trust
property and in carrying out his duties as trustee he must put his own
interests aside. In relation to trust property a trustee has all the
responsibilities that an outright owner would have i.e. a duty to insure the
property, to ensure that the title to the property is in order as well as any
other documents which may affect the property in any way. Trustee has ongoing
duty to investigate the condition of the trust property. A trustee shall
recover or make an attempt to recover trust property or any debts or funds due
to the trust. A trustee also has a duty to defend any action brought against
him in his capacity as trustee. Trust property must be accurately accounted
for and a trustee should always be prepared to make available the accounts.
These are all some of the duties and responsibilities of a trust. In short a
trustee should act strictly in accordance with the byelaws. In case of
negligence, the loss to individual can be ignored, but in case of trust
property, the loss should be recovered from the individual who is negligent as
trustee.
14.2 In the present case certain aspects are not in dispute and not
controverted. Based on various reports on record it is found that from the
year 2005 there was no appointment of Governing Body. No change report was
filed with regard to appointment of Board of Trustees nor Governing Body or
properties of the Trust. Resolution Book was not maintained from the year 1993
to 2000 and from the year 2000 it was maintained in the form of loose separate
paper. The balance sheet produced on record shows that loan was extended to
one Avise Enterprise in the sum of Rs.66,73,274/- and to Shri P.R. Shah for
Rs.17,23,072/- and audit report shows that there is an outstanding of
Rs.83,75,650/- which is interest free amount. Trust money was utilized for
interest free loan to private firm and there is no recovery of the said amount
till date.
14.3 The Trust had engaged Avise Enterprise running in the name of Ankur
Computer Centre to impart computer education, training and to conduct courses
pertaining to different classes of the school. The premises, furniture and
computers have been provided by the Trust apart from free electricity, water,
etc. The fees collected from the students for computer training have been
fully paid to Avise Enterprise since the year 1995-96.
14.4 It is also found that the loan raised for outsiders is used for Avise
Enterprise. The letter dated 24 th March 2005 issued by Trustee Shri Dinesh
Patel to the Assistant Charity Commissioner mentioned the irregularities and
illegalities of the Trust on the basis of the documentary evidence like audit
report and other documents. The irregularities are gross and the Trust has not
explained these irregularities.
14.5 From the evidence on record it is crystal clear that there are various
irregularities and the Trust is not properly managed or administered. I have
gone through the evidence on record and found that the reasons assigned by the
Joint Charity Commissioner for holding that there are proper reasons to
believe to frame a suo motu scheme for the proper management of the Trust are
just and proper. In paragraph 15 of the order the court below has also
elaborately discussed the reasons for coming to the conclusion that there are
sufficient reasons to frame suo motu scheme under section 50A of the Act. I am
in complete agreement with the reasonings adopted and findings arrived at by
the court below in this regard. Therefore no interference is warranted in such
finding.
15.0 Before proceeding further, certain aspects of by-laws of the Society and
the relevant part of Trustees and Governing Body are required to be noted.
15.1 At the time of registration of the Society, original memorandum of
association and rules and regulations were registered which were taken with
PTR in the year 1963. In the year 2004 a Change Report came to be filed by
Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, acting in the capacity of Managing Trustee of the
Society, being Change Report No.438 of 2004 for making entry on PTR of new
Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations of the Society. The said
Change Report was filed on the basis of the resolution passed in the meeting
of the society held on 10th April 2004. The Deputy Charity Commissioner, by
order dated 13th January 2006 approved the said Change Report.
15.2 Against the said order Shri Nikunj H. Mehta and another preferred Appeal
No.9 of 2006, which came to be allowed by order dated 30th September 2006 of
the Charity Commissioner and the case was remanded for deciding the same by
taking into consideration the observations made by the Charity Commissioner.
15.3 Thereafter the Deputy Charity Commissioner considered additional evidence
produced on record and passed an order on 10th September 2007 approving the
Change Report No.438 of 2004.
15.4 Again Shri Nikunj Mehta and another filed Appeal No.14 of 2007 before the
Charity Commissioner under section 70 of the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950\.
The Charity Commissioner, after considering the materials on record, allowed
the appeal and set aside the order of Deputy Charity Commissioner by order
dated 24 th November 2008. Thus, the original Memorandum of Association and
Rules and Regulations of the Society, which were taken with PTR in the year
1963 continued to be in force till this date.
15.5 The relevant existing bye-laws have already been quoted in the foregoing
paragraphs.
15.6 As per byelaw no.2 existing as on the date of the notice, for the
management of all matters connected with the society there shall be two
bodies, namely, Trustees and Governing Body. Byelaw No.3 provides that there
shall be at least three Trustees of the society nominated by the Founder
Trustee and any vacancy due to the resignation or death shall be filled up by
the Board of Trustees. They shall have the charge of the permanent funds and
property of the society and all such funds and property shall stand in the
names of the Trustees. The Director of the School shall be one of the
Trustees.
15.7 Byelaw no.6 provides for the Governing Body. This byelaw stipulates that
the Governing Body of the society shall consist of the members nominated by
the Board of Trustees from among (1) two from prominent Educationists, (2) two
from parents of the Ankur School and (3) two from reputed establishments. It
is also provided that Principals of institutions conducted by the society and
heads of various departments including one member of the office staff, shall
be Ex-officio members of the Governing Body.
15.8 Byelaw no.7 pertains to Chairman. As per this byelaw there shall be a
chairman elected by the members of the Governing Body; the Chairman shall be
elected at the end of every two years and if the office of the Chairman falls
vacant in the course of biennium, a meeting of the members of the Governing
Body shall be summoned within a period of two months for the election of a new
Chairman.
15.9 The duties and responsibilities of Trustees and Governing Council are
also set out.
15.10 It is therefore crystal clear that there are only three Trustees and
there is a Governing Council having various members from different fields and
also a Chairman to look after the day today affairs of the Society.
16.0 Having considered the relevant byelaw, I may now advert to the
constitution of the Trust.
16.1 Initially the following persons were the subscribers to the memorandum of
Association and they had consented to be the members of the Governing Body of
the Society:
Dr.
T.S. Subramaniam - Director, ATIRA Shri Nandkishore Sakerlal Shodhan - Mill
Agent Dr.K.R.
Ramnathan - Director, PRL Shri Prabhudas Balubhai Patwari - Advocate Shri
Bernard Kohn - Architect Smt.
Ruth Kohn - Teacher Smt.
Freny Desai - Teacher Shri Rohit C. Mehta - Mill Agent 16.2 By Change Report
No.820 of 1983 the names of following persons were deleted:
Nandkishor Shakarlal Sodhan as he resigned from 19.4.1964.
Dr.
T.S. Subramaniam as he resigned from 2.12.1968.
Shri K.R. Ramanathan as he resigned from 2.12.1967.
Shri Bernard Kohan as he had permanently shifted out of country.
Smt.
Ruth Kohan as she had permanently shifted out of country.
Shri Rohitbhai C. Mehta as he resigned from 17.5.1971.
Shri Prabhudas B.Patwari as he resigned from 15.3.1976 16.3 By Change Report
No.1458 of 1990 the following persons were substituted with the approval of
Charity Commissioner on 1st December 1990:
Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, Administrative Officer Smt.
Iraben Vinubhai Desai, Assistant Director, Ankur School.
Shri Yashwantbhai Shukla, Educationist.
Shri C.M.Mehta, Educationist.
Smt.
Jayshirben A. Mehta, Scientist.
Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal, Businessman.
Shri Safibhai A. Maniar, Businessman.
16.4 Thereafter Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting in the capacity
of Managing Trustee of the Society, filed Change Report no.373 of 2004 for
substituting the names of (1) Shri Kamlesh Ramanlal Gandhi, (2) Sanghvi Dipak
Chhotalal, (3) Shivkumar R. Chauhan, (4) Rajeshbhai Shantilal Shah and (5)
Bhanvarlal G. Sharma, in place of (1) Smt. Freiny Chunibhai Desai (since
died), (2) Shri Yashwantbhai Shukla (since died), (3) Smt. Jayshirben C.Mehta
(since resigned), (4) Shri C.M.Mehta (since resigned), (5) Shri Shafibhai
Maniar (since resigned) and (6) Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal (since resigned).
This Change Report was approved by order dated 29th May 2004 passed by Deputy
Charity Commissioner. However, Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal and others have filed
Appeal No.19 of 2004 against the aforesaid order dated 29th May 2004 passed by
the Deputy Charity Commissioner. The said appeal came to be allowed by order
dated 24th September 2004 by Charity Commissioner and the order of the Deputy
Charity Commissioner sanctioning the Change Report No.373 of 2004 was
cancelled.
16.5 Thereafter Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, purportedly acting in the capacity
of Managing Trustee of the Society filed Change Report No.1140 of 2004 to add
names of five trustees which came to be rejected vide order dated 27th January
2009\. Subsequently Change Report No.1141 of 2004 came to be filed to delete
names of Yashwantbhai P. Shukla and Freniben Desai due to death of both the
said persons. No decision was taken on this Change Report.
16.6 Therefore, as per the record, the names of Shri Dineshbhai M. Patel, Shri
Iraben Vinubhai Desai, Shri Yashwantbhai Shukla, Shri C.M.Mehta, Smt.
Jayshirben A. Mehta, Shri Ved Prakash Agarwal and Shri Safibhai A. Maniar are
on record of the Society. It appears that out of these persons, Yashwantbhai
P. Shukla and Freniben Desai died for which Change Report No.1141 of 2004 was
filed along with the relevant death certificates.
16.7 However, the fact remains that there can be only three Trustees on the
Board of Trustees of the Society as per the byelaw of the Society. From the
record it appears that Shri Dinesh M.Patel was acting as Managing Trustee.
Though seven names were entered in the record, there is not an iota of
evidence to show that all of them are Trustees or members of the Governing
Body. The report of the Charity Commissioner reveals that Shri Dinesh M. Patel
alone is the trustee of the Trust since the year 1970 (actually it should be
1990). This finding is based on the materials on record before the Charity
Commissioner who is in possession of the entire record of the Society.
16.8 The Trustees and the Governing Body were not appointed since many years.
There is no resolution book for the period from1993 to 2000. There is nothing
on record to show as to who are Trustees and who are the members of Governing
Body.
16.9 There is a letter on record addressed to Bench Clerk of the office of
Charity Commissioner and letter issued by Charity Commissioner intimating that
there were eight trustees in the Society and at present only one Trustee
managing the Trust. Smt. V.R. Dave, Deputy Charity Commissioner has prepared
an investigation report under section 37 of the Act on 4th December 2003
wherein also it is found that Shri Dinesh M. Patel is the only trustee since
the year 1970 (actually 1990). Shri Dinesh M. Patel has filed his explanation
on 30th September 2003 wherein he admitted that he alone is the trustee since
the year 1990. He admitted that governing body was not appointed and he was
managing the affairs of the trust. This aspect has been accepted by the court
below while coming to the conclusion that there was sufficient reason to
believe to frame a suo motu scheme for the proper management of the Trust. It
is also required to be noted that during the inquiry detailed statement of
Shri Dinesh Patel was recorded and he could not deny the rampant
irregularities committed by the members.
16.10 It is also important to note that no cross-objections were filed by the
respondents.
16.11 The finding of the court below is that names of the appellant therein
and opponent nos.10 to 13 were enrolled in the PTR record. It was recorded
that names of Dinesh M.Patel, Smt.Iraben Desai, Yashwantbhai Shukla, C.M.
Mehta and Smt. Jayshreeben A. Mehta were enrolled as trustees in the PTR
record vide Change Report No.1458 of 1990 and they continue till today.
Therefore the court below observed that before deleting the names from PTR
record, an opportunity of hearing should have been given to them.
16.12 In common legal systems, a trust is a relationship between three parties
whereby property (real or personal, tangible or intangible) is transferred by
one party to be held by another party for the benefit of a third party. A
trust is created by a settler, who transfers some or all of his property to a
trustee, who holds that trust property (or trust corpus) for the benefit of
the beneficiaries. The trustee has legal title to the trust property, but the
beneficiaries have equitable title to the trust property. Thus, a Settler is
an individual or institution who creates or settles the trust and entrusts the
trust and the trust property to a trustee or trustees.
16.13 In the present case initially there were 7 settlers. It appears that the
Trust continued to appoint 7 persons as per the initial settlement. In fact
the settlers ought to have appointed trustees and governing body. This was not
done in the present case. In short, the trust was not at all functioning as
per the byelaws.
16.14 However, what the court below failed to consider is that though names of
seven persons were on record, out of whom two have died, it cannot be said
that they were the trustees of the Society. They, except Shri Dinesh M. Patel,
at the most, can be considered to be the persons managing the day today
affairs of the Society and cannot be considered to be Trustees of the Society.
There is no Governing Body as per the byelaws.
16.15 As per the rules and regulations of the Society in force, there should
be three trustees of the society and there is nothing on record to show that
other persons were appointed as new trustees as per the byelaw. The Society
never functioned as per the rules and regulations and therefore there is no
Governing Body or Trustees as per the provisions of the Byelaw. However,
various records, including that of the office of Charity Commissioner indicate
that Shri Dinesh M. Patel is the Managing Trustee.
16.16 In absence of definite record showing that others are Trustees, they
cannot be considered to be Trustees inasmuch as there are only three posts of
Trustees. Managing Trustee represents the trustees. As regards the Trust is
concerned, Managing Committee has the authority to act on behalf of other
trustees and to take decision on behalf of the trust. The Managing Trustee has
authority to correspond on behalf of the Trust and also to represent the Trust
in any proceedings. The court below has clearly committed an error in
considering and proceeding on the basis that there are more than three
Trustees on the Board of Trustees.
16.17 The court below ought to have considered the matter as per the byelaws
of the Society wherein there is provision for only three trustees. In the
present case there is nothing on record to show as to who are the other two
trustees along with Shri Dinesh M. Patel. The order of the Charity
Commissioner was disturbed only on the basis that "no opportunity of being
heard is given to the petitioner Iraben Desai and other trustees - respondent
no.10 to 13 before cancelling their names as trustees and before entering new
names of trustees."
16.18 The Court below obviously proceeded on the basis that there are more
than three trustees on the board of trustees which reasoning cannot be
accepted on the ground that the byelaw itself does not provide for more than
three trustees. There is no specific evidence on record as to who are the
other two trustees apart from Shri Dinesh M. Patel. In any case, even the
court below cannot bypass the byelaws of the Society while considering the
order of the Charity Commissioner. Therefore there is no question of giving
opportunity of hearing to other so-called trustees.
16.19 This Court is, therefore, of the view that service of notice on Managing
Trustee for the Trust is sufficient notice for framing a suo motu scheme,
especially when there are no other specific trustees nor Governing Body. The
Managing Trustee has represented the Trust and he has also filed reply before
the Charity Commissioner. In fact the scheme was initiated due to
mismanagement or non-appointment of trustees and governing body and also for
various other irregularities. Under these circumstances no other person can be
treated to be Trustees of the Trust and therefore no notice is required to be
issued to any other person except the Managing Trustee. It is important to
note that since the required trustees were not there, the public advertisement
was issued.
16.20 Furthermore, even if other two more persons are considered to be the
trustees, in view of the fact that an opportunity of being heard is given to
Managing Trustee, no notice is required to be given to the other trustees. In
the present case opportunity, including to lead evidence, has been afforded to
the Managing Trustee and he has even filed reply before the Charity
Commissioner. I am therefore of the view that the court below has clearly
committed an error in holding that notice is required to be given to all the
trustees on the basis of PTR. For the very reason that there are no specific
trustees or members of governing body, the ratio laid down in the authorities
cited by the learned Advocate for the respondents are not applicable to the
facts of the present case. Since they are not trustees they are not required
to be issued notice.
16.21 It is further required to be noted that once a notice is given to the
Managing Trustee and he has submitted his reply and when the scheme has
started, even if the Managing Trustee has expired no further notice is
required to be given. The procedural requirement contemplated under section
50A of the Act is of giving opportunity of hearing to the trustees of such
trust before framing a scheme for management or administration of such trust
and therefore there is no requirement of giving personal notice to the members
of the governing body in the event of death of Managing Trustee. Therefore
there is no question of giving personal notice to the members of the governing
body in the event of death of Shri Dineshbhai M.Patel. Apart from that in the
present case, as per the record there is no governing body as per the byelaws
and mere enrollment of certain persons on record cannot be treated to be
Governing Body. The Governing Body should consists of the persons as described
in byelaw no.6.
17.0 Now the question remains to be considered is whether a show cause notice
is required to be issued before starting suo motu inquiry under section 50-A
or not. In this connection section 50-A is required to be noted which reads as
under:
"(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 50, where the Charity
commissioner has reason to believe that, in the interest of the proper
management of administration of a public trust, a scheme should be settled of
it, or where two or more persons having interest in a public trust make an
application to him in writing in the prescribed manner that, in the interest
of the proper management or administration of a public trust, a scheme should
be settled for it, the Charity Commissioner may, if, after giving the trustees
of such trust due opportunity to be heard, he is satisfied that it is
necessary or expedient so to do, frame a scheme for the management or
administration of such public trust.
17.1 Section 50A infuses the Charity Commissioner with power in addition to
Section 50 to frame, amalgamate or modify any scheme in the interest of proper
management of a Public Trust. This is exercised either suo motu when he has
reason to believe that it is necessary to do so or when two or more persons
having interest in a public trust make an application to him in writing in the
prescribed manner. This merely enables the Charity Commissioner to initiate
proceedings for settling a scheme for the proper management or administration
of a public trust of public trust eroding the very object of the Act.
17.2 What the Act stipulates is that "... a scheme should be settled for its,
the Charity Commissioner may, if, after giving the trustees of such trust due
opportunity to be heard, he is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so
to do, frame a scheme for the management or administration of such public
trust". Therefore, the requirement is hearing the trustees before framing a
scheme. Section 50A of the Act requires the Charity Commissioner to give due
opportunity of hearing to the trustees before framing a scheme for management
and administration of such trust. There is no provision or obligation on the
Charity Commissioner to give notice to the trust and the trustees before
initiating inquiry under the said section.
17.3 In the present case the Charity Commissioner before passing the order
dated 23rd November 2005, in view of the report of Director of Accounts,
Office of the Charity Commissioner through the Deputy Charity Commissioner,
called for clarification from the Society with regard to the financial
irregularities in administration and management of the trust property through
Shri Dineshbhai Patel, purportedly acting as Managing Trustee of the Trust. He
has given explanation by his communication to the Charity Commissioner. There
is no provision for issuing a notice or giving hearing before initiating the
inquiry under section 50A of the Act.
17.4 It appears that the court below has attempted to read the requirement in
the statutory provision de-hors the legislative intent which is not
permissible in law. If the legislative intent is to give a notice before
initiating the inquiry, the provision would have specifically stated so.
Therefore the court below has clearly committed an error in interpreting
section 50A and holding that personal notice was required to be issued to
respondent no.1 before framing of suo motu scheme under section 50A of the
Act.
17.5 From the record it is evident that Iraben Desai had given consent for
appointment under the scheme. This would mean that she is aware about the
scheme and she has participated in the proceedings. Therefore it cannot be
said that she had no notice at all. In so far as others are concerned, they
are parties in the appeal before the Charity Commissioner and therefore they
are also aware about the scheme in question. While reversing the order of the
Assistant Charity Commissioner the Charity Commissioner in his order dated
24.11.2008 specifically made a reference to the scheme and appeal was allowed
only on that ground. All the concerned persons were party to the said
proceedings and therefore all were aware about the scheme.
17.6 The persons who were in charge of management were the so-called members
of Governing Council and they were never trustees. Even if the definition of
governing council is being interpreted as members of Board of Trustees, they
are given power only to act as trustees and a vacuum is created in the trust
as they are not in fact Trustees as envisaged under the Act. In such
circumstances if notice is given to them, it would amount to giving management
to persons who are not legally authorised. I am therefore of the opinion that
there was no necessity of issuing notice to the so-called members of Governing
Council.Even then they had knowledge of the proceedings.
17.7 Apart from the above, there is nothing on record to show that Iraben-
respondent no.1 and others were trustees of the Society. As stated
hereinabove, as per the provisions there can be only three trustees. The PTR
produced on record does not in any manner suggest that the respondent no.1 was
never appointed as the trustee of the Society. There is no material or
evidence on record which shows that the respondent no.1 had ever been elected
as trustee of the society. At the most she can be treated as a member of the
Governing Body. Therefore no notice is required to be issued to respondent
no.1 or any other person claiming to be the trustee of the society. Apart from
that respondent no.1 in fact participated in the proceedings by submitting her
consent letter for being appointed as Trustee as per the scheme to be settled
pursuant to the suo motu proceedings. Having participated in such proceedings
it is not open to the respondent no.1 to say that she was not issued any
notice whatsoever. In this connection it would be relevant to refer to two
decisions of the Apex Court. In the case of H.P. Transport Corporation V. K.C.
Rahi, reported in (2008) 11 SCC 502 it is held as under:
"8. In the instant case we have been taken through various documents and also
from the representation dated 19.10.1993 filed by the respondent himself it
would clearly show that he knew that a departmental enquiry was initiated
against him yet he chosen not to participate in the enquiry proceedings at his
own risk. In such event plea of principle of natural justice is deemed to have
been waived and he is estopped from raising the question of non-compliance
with principles of natural justice. In the representation submitted by him on
19.19.1993 the subject itself reads "DEPARTMENTAL ENQUIRIS". It is stated at
the Bar that the respondent is a law graduate, therefore, he cannot take a
plea of ignorance of law. Ignorance of law is no excuse much less by a person
who is a law graduate himself."
17.8 In the case of K.A. Nagamani V. Indian Airlines, reported in AIR 2009 SC
3240 it is held as under:
"26. Yet another aspect of the matter; That the appellant admittedly had
participated in the similar selection process for erstwhile grade 15 and 16,
Manager (Maintenance/Systems) respectively. The Corporation had given adequate
opportunity to the appellant to compete with all other eligible candidates at
the selection for consideration of the case of all eligible candidates to the
post in question. The Corporation did not violate the right to equality
guaranteed under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. The appellant having
participated in the selection process along with the contesting respondents
without any demur or protest cannot be allowed to turn round and question the
very same process having failed to qualify for the promotion. In Madan Lal &
Ors. Vs. State of J & K & Ors [(1995) 3SCC 486], this Court observed: "It is
now well settled that if a candidate takes a calculated chance and appears at
the interview, then, only because the result of the interview is not palatable
to him, he cannot turn round and subsequently contend that the process of
interview was unfair: Therefore, the result of the interview test on merits
cannot be successfully challenged by a candidate who takes a chance to get
selected at the said interview and who ultimately finds himself to be
unsuccessful." Reference may also be made to the decision of this Court in
Chandra Prakash Tiwari Vs. Shakuntala Shukla ](2002)6 SCC 127].
17.9 Further, in the case of Chunilal Jashraj Lodha and others V. Munishi
Mahamadhusain Shaikh and others, reported in 1976 GLR 227 it is held that the
definition of the expression "manager" given in sub-section (8) of section 2
of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 makes it clear beyond any doubt that a
manager is different from a trustee though both of them may have in the matter
of administering a trust similar duties to discharge. It is wrong, therefore,
to say that under the scheme of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, a manager is a
trustee and a trustee is a manager.
17.10 Thus, once the proceedings initiated by the Charity Commissioner are
found to be in order and as per the provisions of the Act, the Court below
ought not to have entertained any challenge against the outcome of the
proceedings solely on the ground that notice to respondent no.1 was not given
especially when she herself had participated in the scheme by submitting her
consent for being nominated as a Trustee under the Scheme.
17.11 An observation was made by the court below that Iraben is a Director and
as per clause 3(b) she is a Trustee. However, the record does not show that
she was ever appointed or acting as a Trustee of the Society. Further, no
requisite form for trusteeship was filed before the Charity Commissioner.
18.0 Another contention raised is that the notice issued is not sufficient and
no reasons are stated in the notice. In this connection it is required to be
noted that the provision does not stipulate any type of reason or any
prescribed format for issuance of notice. In the present case sufficient
notice was given to which reply was also filed by the trustee. Further, the
respondent no.1 has participated in the proceedings as if she is fully aware
about the matter.
18.1 Thus, as discussed hereinabove, Iraben and others had consented for being
appointed as Trustees under the Scheme being framed by the Charity
Commissioner and authorized the Advocate to take up the matter on board and
therefore they have acquiesced in the proceedings. They have not even filed
appeal against the order of the Charity Commissioner. The Charity Commissioner
has noted that there were discrepancies in accounts, non-maintenance of
statutory records, non-compliance with reporting procedures and the
administration and management of the Trust was being done de hors its
memorandum and rules and regulations. The letter dated 24th March 2005 issued
by Shri Dinesh Patel to the Assistant Charity Commissioner mentioned the
irregularities and illegalities of the Trust on the basis of the documentary
evidence like audit report and other documents. As per the provisions, there
can be only three Trustees on the Board of Trustees of the Society, but seven
names were entered in the record and there is nothing to show that all of them
are Trustees or members of the Governing Body. Mr. Dinesh Patel had also
admitted that governing body was not appointed and he was managing the affairs
of the trust. Therefore there was sufficient reason to believe to frame a suo
motu scheme for the proper management of the Trust. As per the rules and
regulations of the society in force, there should be three trustees of the
society. However, the record does not show that apart from Shri Dinesh Patel,
no other person was appointed as trustee. The Court below proceeded on the
basis that there are more than three trustees on the Board of Trustees, which
cannot be accepted. Therefore the service of notice on Managing Trustee for
the Trust is sufficient notice for framing a suo motu scheme, especially when
there are no other specific trustees nor Governing Body. Since the required
trustees were not there, the public advertisement was issued. Further an
opportunity of being heard is given to Managing Trustee on behalf of the
Trust. He has submitted his reply also. Therefore there was no force in the
submission that no notice was issued to the trustees. As stated above, Iraben
Desai had given consent for appointment under the scheme which would mean that
she is aware about the scheme and she had participated in the proceedings.
Therefore it cannot be said that she had no notice at all.
19.0 In view of the foregoing reasons I am of the view that the Charity
Commissioner has not committed any illegality in initiating suo motu scheme
and there are no procedural lapses in such initiation.
20.0 However, I am of the view that the Charity Commissioner has committed an
error in appointing seven persons as trustees as suggested by one Bhanvarlal
Sharma. As per the provisions there can be only three Trustees. The order of
the Charity Commissioner reveals that such appointment was made only on the
basis of affidavit of Bhanvarlal Sharma who had claimed himself to be the
Chairman of the Ankur Trust. It is also evident that the Charity Commissioner
has not examined the credentials of the said seven persons and appointment was
made only by relying on the affidavit of Bhanvarlal Sharma. There is nothing
in the order to show that the Charity Commissioner has arrived at his own
subjective satisfaction for such appointment.
21.0 The family group managed the affairs of the Society and there is serious
mismanagement. The Society is running an institution where many students are
prosecuting their studies. When there is mismanagement it affects the
institution and the future of the students are at stake. Therefore unless
there is a very good management, it may even result in liquidation of the
society putting many into serious difficulties. Therefore efficient and
sincere persons are required to be appointed as trustees and Governing Body of
the trust. Their credentials are required to be verified. It is also required
to be noted that in the earlier rules and regulations there are provisions for
nomination of members of Governing Body from prominent educationists, parents
of the school, reputed establishments, directors of the school etc. In the
present case, it appears that the Charity Commissioner has appointed the
persons without applying his mind merely on the affidavit filed by Mr.
Bhanvarlal Sharma. Therefore such appointment cannot be permitted to be
continued in the interest of the society. The Charity Commissioner was not
right in his decision to the aforesaid extent.
22.0 In the premises aforesaid, the order of Court below is quashed and set
aside. The order of the Charity Commissioner initiating suo motu scheme under
section 50A and settling the same except appointment of Executive Committee is
confirmed. However, the appointment of Governing Council shall be continued on
adhoc basis till 31st December 2012 i.e. till new Trustees and Governing
Council are appointed by way of election or as per the procedure prescribed.
It will be open to the Charity Commissioner to elect Trustees and Members of
Governing Council as per the Scheme i.e. appointment of three trustees and
seven members of Governing Council and other members. Such appointment shall
be made on or before 31st December 2012. The election shall be held by the
Charity Commissioner from different categories of persons referred to in the
bye-laws. It is clarified that if no members are available then new members
can be enrolled from persons connected with School such as students, staff,
parents or doners or any person rendering honorary services. Till the
appointment of Trustees and Governing Council as per the Scheme, the Executive
Committee shall continue to function for managing the day today affairs of the
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
failing which the stay granted by this Court shall stand vacated
automatically.
(K.S.
JHAVERI, J.) Divya// Top
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3966 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3967 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    =========================================================
    1
    Whether
    			Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3966 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3967 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    =========================================================
    1
    Whether
    			Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3966 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3967 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    =========================================================
    1
    Whether
    			Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
    2
    To be
    			referred to the Reporter or not ?
    3
    Whether
    			their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the judgment ?
    4
    Whether
    			this case involves a substantial question of law as to the
    			interpretation of the constitution of India, 1950 or any order
    			made thereunder ?
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2933 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3966 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2935 of 2010
    With
    CIVIL
    APPLICATION No. 3967 of 2011
    In
    FIRST APPEAL No. 2932 of 2010
    For
    Approval and Signature:  
    HONOURABLE
    MR.JUSTICE KS JHAVERI
    =========================================================
    1
    Whether
    			Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment ?
    2
    To be
    			referred to the Reporter or not ?
    3
    Whether
    			their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the judgment ?
    4
    Whether
    			this case involves a substantial question of law as to the
    			interpretation of the constitution of India, 1950 or any order
    			made thereunder ?
Society purely on adhoc basis upto 31st December 2012. Appeals are allowed to
the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.
23.0 In view of the orders passed in the main matters, Civil Applications
shall not survive and are accordingly disposed of.
[K.S.
JHAVERI, J.] FURTHER ORDER:
After the aforesaid order was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondents requests for staying the present
judgement.
Mr.
Mihir Joshi, learned Counsel for the appellants has objected to the same.
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the stay granted by this
Court is extended for a period of six weeks from today on condition that all
the Office Bearers shall file an undertaking before this Court, within a
period of one week from today to the effect that they shall not indulge in any
other activity other than managing the day-to-day affairs of the Trust,
