Competition Commission of India
Hpcl-Mittal Pipelines Limited ... vs Gujarat Energy Transmission ... on 31
January, 2018
                                 COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA
                                         Case No. 39 of 2017
                In Re:
                HPCL-Mittal Pipelines Limited ('HMPL')                       Informant
                And
                Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited   Opposite Party No. 1
                State Load Dispatch Centre, GETCO, Gujarat        Opposite Party No. 2
                Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Limited ('PGVCL')     Opposite Party No. 3
                CORAM
                Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
                Chairperson
                Mr. S.L. Bunker
                Member
                Mr. Sudhir Mital
                Member
                Mr. Augustine Peter
                Member
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
                Member
                Mr. U.C. Nahta
                Member
                Appearance:
                For Informant:                 Shri Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate
                                               Shri Kartik Nayar, Advocate
                                               Ms. Kanika Chaudhary Nayar, Advocate
                                               Shri Rishab Kumar, Advocate
                                               Shri Sarthak Malhotra, Advocate
                                               Shri Rudresh Pratap Singh, Advocate
                                               Ms. Modhulika Bose, Advocate
    Case No. 39 of 2017                                                   Page 1 of 33
                                                       Shri Tushar Bhardwaj, Advocate
                                                      Shri Rajiv Khanna, AGM Legal, HMPL
                                                      Shri Ramesh Kumar Rojasara, Manager
                                                      (Tech), HMPL
                For OP-1                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                For OP-2                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                                                      Shri N.N. Sheikh, Executive Engineer,
                                                      SLDC
                For OP-3                              Ms. Swapna Seshadri, Advocate
                            Order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act, 2002
                1.
HPCL-Mittal Pipelines Limited ('HMPL') (hereinafter, the 'Informant'/'IP')
filed the present information, under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act,
2002 (hereinafter, the 'Act') against Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation
Limited (hereinafter, the 'GETCO'/ 'OP-1'), State Load Dispatch Centre, GETCO
Gujarat (hereinafter, the 'GETCO-SLDC'/ 'OP- 2'), and Paschim Gujarat Vij
Company Limited (hereinafter, the 'PGVCL' / 'OP-3') alleging, inter alia,
contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
2\. The Informant is stated to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Hindustan
Mittal Energy Limited (hereinafter as 'HMEL'). HMEL is a joint venture between
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and Mittal Energy Limited. HMPL
operates the business related to crude oil receipt, its storage and cross-
country transportation and is primarily responsible for the Mundra Bathinda
Pipeline that transports crude oil from Mundra, Gujarat to HMEL's Guru Gobind
Singh Refinery at Bathinda, Punjab. It is submitted that HMPL is an industrial
consumer of electricity with a contract demand of 6.7 MW and is currently
being supplied with the same by OP-3, i.e. PGVCL.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 2 of 33
3\. OP-1 is an electrical power transmission company in the State of Gujarat,
India, setup in May, 1999 and incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956. As
per the Gujarat Electricity Grid Code, 2013, OP-1 is recognized as the State
Transmission Utility (STU). OP-2, GETCO-SLDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of
OP-1, is a statutory body constituted under Section 31(1) read with Section
31(2) of Electricity Act, 2003 and is involved in generation scheduling,
monitoring real-time power system network, managing line and unit outages and
assets of OP-1.
4\. OP-3, incorporated on 15.09.2003, is one of the 4 electricity
'Distribution Licensees' as defined under Section 2(17), Electricity Act, 2003
in the State of Gujarat, which came into existence subsequent to the
unbundling of electricity segment into three segments, viz. generation,
transmission and distribution, which were earlier performed by the erstwhile
Gujarat Electricity Board ('GEB'). OP-3 is involved in electricity
distribution and retail supply in the western part of the State of Gujarat.
5\. The Informant states that electricity is a subject that falls under the
Concurrent List of the Indian Constitution, which enables the Central as well
as the State Government to enjoy co-extensive regulatory domain over it. The
Informant has highlighted various historic developments in the electricity
sector, including the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 (hereinafter
'EA03') to contend that EA03 was designed to infuse competition in the sector.
Various attempts have been made in the past at the central as well as the
state level to bring competition in various segments of the electricity value
chain-- comprising of Generation, Transmission, Distribution and Retail
Supply.
6\. Under the new electricity regime of EA03, the sub-segments of electricity
value chain were unbundled. Thermal power generation was kept license free to
promote competition and private sector participation. Power trading was
introduced as a licensed activity leading to the creation of power bourses
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 3 of 33 namely Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) and Power
Exchange India Limited (PXIL). Further, open access was introduced in the
transmission and distribution segment with the aim of creating an environment
in which generators could sell the power generated to the highest bidder and
consumers could buy power from the most economical source. The STUs were
obliged to consider the open access requests of such generators and consumers
to allow this framework to evolve.
7\. The Informant has relied upon Section 2(47) of EA03, which defines Open
Access as 'non-discriminatory provision for the use of transmission lines or
distribution system or associated facilities with such lines or system by any
licensee or consumer or a person engaged in generation in accordance with the
regulations specified by the Appropriate Commission', to contend that the
consumers should be able to choose among a large number of competing power
companies (Generator/Distributor) instead of being forced to buy electricity
from their existing distribution licensee. In particular, large consumers such
as industrial units, who can avail regular supply should be given an option of
choosing their electricity supplier at competitive rates. Thus, open access
was designed to operationalise in phases in consideration that the
distribution licensee in a particular area also needed assurance of adequate
consumer demand. As per EA03, large users of power having connected demand
load of 1 megawatt (MW) and above are eligible to apply for open access so
that they are able to purchase cheaper power from a source other than the
distribution licensee licensed to supply power to a particular geographic
region, i.e. from the open market. The EA03 also empowers the CERC and State
Electricity Regulatory Commissions to formulate their own open access
regulations to regulate inter-state and intra-state open access, respectively.
The Informant has cited Section 39(2) and Section 40 of the EA03, namely, to
emphasize that the EA03 specifically identifies provisioning of open access as
one of the functions as well as duty of the STU/transmission licensee.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 4 of 33
8\. It is submitted that in case of sourcing electricity through open access
route, in addition to power purchase cost which is to be paid to the
generator/ supplying entity, there are several other charges to be paid by
open access consumers which include connectivity charges, Point of Connection
(PoC) charges, Transmission Charges, Transmission Losses, Wheeling Charges and
Losses, Cross Subsidy Surcharge, SLDC Charges, RLDC Charges etc. In case, the
open access is sought by a large consumer from a source located within a
particular state (intra-state), it is only possible after obtaining a
permission/approval from the SLDC or an STU. In the State of Gujarat, intra-
state open access is governed by the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission
(Terms and Conditions of Intra-state Open Access) Regulations, 2011
(hereinafter, 'GERC Regulations'), under which the open access is categorised
in the following three categories:
a. Short Term Open Access ('STOA')- Open Access for a period upto one month at
a time, but not exceeding a period of six months in a calendar year b. Medium
Term Open Access ('MTOA')- Open Access allowed for a period of 3 months to 3
years c. Long Term Open Access ('LTOA')- Open Access allowed for a period of
12 years to 25 years.
9\. Para 4 sub-para (1) of the GERC Regulations states that only consumers
with a load demand of 4 MW and above may apply for open access. The Informant
is an industrial consumer of electricity with a contract demand of 6.7 MW, and
thus an eligible open access consumer, which is currently supplied by OP- 3,
the distribution licensee in the area where the Informant is located. The
Informant, being desirous of taking electricity through an alternative
supplier (open access), sought permission of OP-2, on 12 different occasions
between September, 2014 to September, 2016, but the same was incessantly
denied the Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 5 of 33 same on the ground of 'upstream
network/system constraint' on 10 occasions and for 'non-submission of
undertaking' on 2 occasions.
10\. The Informant has highlighted all the applications made to OP-2 and the
response received from OP-2 on each occasion, which have been annexed with the
information. Prior to applying for the open access permission, the Informant
also sought approval for installation of necessary equipment for facilitating
the same from OP-1, vide letter dated 26.03.2014, since the scheme of EA03 is
such that the sub-station and route through which open access is to be allowed
is identified by the STU. Thereafter, the decision to supply the power
requirement as per HMPL's open access application through 220 KV Nanikhakar
sub-station was taken by OP-1. In response to the Informant's request for
installing necessary equipment at 220kv Nanikhakar sub-station, OP-1, vide
letter dated 29.05.2014, conveyed that the Informant's request will not amount
to seeking permission for open access, and for availing the same separate
application would have to be made. Accordingly, the Informant submitted a
fresh application (dated 17.06.2014) accompanied with requisite documents
seeking NOC for availing open access (STOA). Vide letter dated 23.06.2014,
OP-2 informed the Informant of the technical requirements and documentary
formalities for establishing Radio link between Informant's plant premises and
OP-1's nearest Remote Terminal Unit (RTU). This, as per the Informant was
completed and OP-2 was informed of the same vide letter dated 03.07.2014. The
Informant claims to have spent Rs. 11,76,152.40 in fulfilling the technical
requirements. However, despite repeated applications for availing open access
(STOA), the Informant had not received a favourable response.
11\. It is submitted that since the initial application of the Informant
seeking open access, OP-1 has been citing 'upstream network constraints' in
the transmission line routed through the 220 KV Nanikhakar sub-station. It has
been stated that similar denials for open access were also allegedly faced by
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 6 of 33 other industrial consumers, namely Adani
Wilmar and HPCL. The Informant has alleged that the rejection of application
on the ground of 'upstream network constraints' is misplaced when the
Informant is currently using the same transmission lines to procure the
contractually committed demand of 6.03 MW of power that has been approved from
OP-3. That the application for NOC for STOA is being made for only 5 MW in the
recent months which is lower than approved contractual demand of 6.7 MW with
OP-3. The Informant submits that grant of STOA shall not in any manner put any
pressure/ constraint on the said lines as the present accounted demand for the
Informant is 6.7 MW. Thus, routing the same through open access will only
change the source of power from OP-3 to IEX while the same transmission lines/
network would be used for distribution of power. The Informant further submits
that in case of open access power there would not be any change in loading of
lines since the power supplied by OP-3 flows through the same transmission
lines. Thus, such summary rejections by OP-2 could only be termed as unfair
and suggest non-application of mind. It is further submitted that the said
discrimination by OP-2 between regular power being procured from OP-3 and
power that is sought to be availed through STOA, is contrary to the concept of
open access introduced for promotion and maintenance of healthy competition in
the market.
12\. Further, the Informant claims that because of the anti-competitive
conduct of the OPs, it has suffered a loss of INR 31.91 crore (for 101350.92
MW of electricity consumed during the reference period) incurred towards
purchasing of expensive power from OP-3 at an average cost of INR 8427.63/MW
as opposed to the cost of purchasing open access electricity in Gujarat at INR
5278.77/MW; apart from incurring installation cost for facilitating open
access.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 7 of 33
13\. In the light of the aforesaid facts, the Informant has alleged
contravention of the various provisions of Section 4 of the Act. It is alleged
that arbitrary and consistent denial of open access by OP-2 has led to the
contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) as the same amounts to imposition of
unfair/arbitrary condition in the provision of services. It is further alleged
that by denying open access permission to Informant and other similarly placed
consumers/power generators, OP-2 (also OP-1) has limited and restricted
production of electricity and the provision of supply of Open Access
Electricity, in contravention of Section 4(2)(b)(i). The Informant has also
alleged contravention of Section 4(2)(c) stating that consistent denials by
OP- 2 has led to denial of market access to the Informant as well as other
power generators who can supply to the Informant through open access. Lastly,
it has been alleged that OP-1 has manipulated the downstream distribution
market in favor of its sister-concern distribution facility (i.e. OP-3) by
virtue of being a parent entity for OP-2 and thereby contravened the
provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act.
14\. Based on these facts and allegations, the Informant has, inter alia,
prayed for initiation of an investigation against the OPs under Section 26 (1)
of the Act, appropriate directions such that STOA applications filed by the
Informant are not rejected arbitrarily by OP-1 and OP-2 and imposition of
penalty under the provisions of the Act.
15\. The Commission considered the information in its ordinary meeting held on
14.09.2017 and decided to call the parties for a preliminary conference on
07.11.2017. On 31.10.2017, OP-2 filed its response to the information filed by
the Informant. On 06.11.2017, the Informant filed an application seeking a
short adjournment of the preliminary conference scheduled on 07.11.2017, which
was allowed by the Commission and the preliminary conference was accordingly
postponed to 22.11.2017. On the said date, the Informant as well Case No. 39
of 2017 Page 8 of 33 as the Opposite Parties presented their oral submissions
before the Commission, through their respective learned counsel.
16\. During the preliminary conference, the learned senior counsel
representing the Informant, Shri Ramji Srinivasan, reiterated the facts and
allegations elucidated in the information. After providing the brief
background facts of the case, Shri Srinivasan highlighted the conduct of the
OPs that has led to anti-competitive effects in the market. It was stated that
open access is an economic activity which allows competition to prosper in the
electricity markets. As a consumer of electricity, eligible to apply for open
access as per the law and regulations, the Informant should not be deprived of
procuring electricity from an available cheaper source. However, the
procedural roadblocks created by OP-2 has led to denial of open access.
Responding to the claim made by OP-2, that open access has been allowed to
many consumers, Shri Srinivasan contended that in such a case the
investigation is even more required to ensure that the Informant has not been
discriminated against others when its open access applications were denied by
OP-2. Shri Srinivasan also argued that the open access requests of the
Informant have been incessantly denied, despite there being available capacity
during certain period e.g. February 2015, as per the submissions made by OP-2.
17\. Further, it was submitted that OP-3 has already taken an undertaking from
the Informant that if open access source does not work out during the period
for which open access has been allowed, the Informant cannot approach OP-3 for
electricity. Thus, the claims regarding universal obligation are without any
basis. With regard to jurisdiction, it was submitted that the Commission has
jurisdiction over all such matters/issues which have competition issues
involved. It was argued that OP-2 has admitted, in its submissions, that it is
a monopoly. Thus, considering the conflicting commercial interest and
commonality of interest within OP-1, OP-2 and OP-3, the jurisdiction of the
Commission is triggered. Shri Srinivasan also argued that the Informant does
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 9 of 33 not have a remedy under the EA03 as Section
60 of the same is limited to issuance of directions by the Appropriate
Commission to a licensee or a generating company if such licensee or
generating company enters into any agreement or abuses its dominant position
or enters into a combination which is likely to cause or causes an adverse
effect on competition in the electricity industry. Since OP-2 is neither a
licensee nor a generating company, Section 60 will not be applicable. Shri
Srinivasan also relied upon Commission's previous orders in the electricity
sector to reiterate Commission's jurisdiction in the matter.
Reply/ Objections filed by OP-1 and OP-2
18\. The learned counsel appearing for OP-1 and OP-2, Ms. Ranjitha
Ramachandran, on the other hand, denied the allegations regarding anti-
competitive conduct against OP-1 and OP-2. At the outset, it was submitted
that OP-1 was notified as an STU vide notification dated 29.05.2004 and
accordingly entrusted with the functions of an SLDC. Such exercise of
functions by Government companies is consistent with the EA03 and there is no
per se conflict in the discharge of functions of STU and SLDC by the same
entity. The mere fact that OP-2 is a Government Company and can be called as a
group company of OP-3, does not mean that OP-2 has acted in the commercial
interests of OP-3, i.e. contrary to its statutory functions. OP-2 submits that
the STOA application is processed by OP-2 and the role of OP-1 and OP-3 is
limited in such process. The alleged monopoly by OP-1 in the transmission
business of electricity in the State of Gujarat does not affect the decision
on the grant of open access.
19\. It was stated that the grant of open access is dependent upon the
available transmission capacity which is determined in accordance with the
GERC Regulations. Further, OP-1 has a virtual monopoly in the discharge of
SLDC functions due to the scheme of EA03, but such dominant position of OP-1
in Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 10 of 33 the transmission business cannot ipso
facto be treated as an abuse of such position as the transmission charges and
transmission losses are determined by the State Regulatory Commission.
20\. Ms. Ramachandran raised a preliminary objection with respect to the
jurisdiction of the Commission citing various provisions of the EA03. It was
submitted that Section 33(5) of EA03 provides that any issue with regard to
the grant and denial of open access, particularly with regard to constraints
in the transmission system lays within the domain of the sector regulator,
namely, the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) in the present
case. In this regard, reliance was also placed upon the Judgment dated
16.02.2017 passed by the Hon'ble Competition Appellate Tribunal in Appeal No.
33 of 2016 of Anand Prakash Agarwal v. Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam
Limited, wherein it was held that the Commission does not have jurisdiction on
the matters pertaining to electricity tariff. It was further argued that
although the said case pertained to electricity tariff, the issue of open
access also falls within the jurisdiction of the Appropriate Commission, as
stated under Section 60 of the EA03.
21\. With regard to the allegation pertaining to denial of open access, it was
submitted that open access is granted or denied on the basis of available
transmission capacity which is calculated in terms of the GERC Regulations
framed by the State Regulator. Regulation 43(1) of the said Regulations
requires the STU to make the calculations with respect to the available
transmission capacity on a quarterly basis and publish it on their website.
OP- 1, in its role as an STU, has been regularly and consistently calculating
the available capacity and publishing the same on its website. Further, OP-2
has been determining the load flow on the system based on system study as per
the Orders of the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) and the
report is being uploaded on the website of OP-2 from March 2015 onwards.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 11 of 33
22\. Attention of the Commission was drawn to the table provided in the
written submissions filed by OP-2 containing month-wise details of STOA
granted to various consumers for the period September, 2014 to September,
2017. Relying on the said table, it was argued that OP-2 has been allowing
open access applications in a non-discriminatory manner in all cases where the
conditions/requirements under the GERC Regulations allow for the same. It was
submitted that rejection of Informant's open access application by OP-2 was
based on transmission constraints in the upstream network. It was contended
that the Informant's challenge to the said rejection is based only on the
principle that there cannot be any transmission constraint since Informant is
seeking to substitute consumption of power from the distribution licensee,
i.e. OP-3, with the open access source. Countering the said contention, OP-2
submitted that substitution of contract demand with STOA, as claimed by
Informant, is not possible as the two possess distinct and separate
characteristics and implications.
23\. The supply by the distribution licensee under a contract demand is under
the universal supply obligation and duty casted under Section 42 and 43 of the
EA03. The distribution licensee has a 'priority status' over the power system,
including transmission/distribution lines, to discharge such obligations and
is placed at the highest pedestal by the State Commission as per the Statutory
Regulations detailed therein. The distribution licensee contributes to the
cost of establishment, upgradation etc. of the transmission and distribution
system as against the short term or medium term open access customers who do
not contribute to the capital cost of the transmission and distribution
system. The distribution licensee has the facility to meet the contract demand
of a consumer from any source and through any line, whereas the conveyance of
the open access power is through a contract/designated path for which the
access is granted. Moreover, OP-2 is bound by the GERC Regulations to compute
availability of transmission capacity for allowing/disallowing open Case No.
39 of 2017 Page 12 of 33 access applications and as such, the said Regulations
do not permit for substitution or non-consideration of Contract Demand in the
formula.
24\. It was submitted that there is no reason to deny STOA to applicants if
there is available capacity. At the same time, when there is a transmission
constraint, OP-1 and OP-2 are not obligated to allow STOA. It is always open
to the consumers to apply for LTOA and require OP-1 to upgrade the system as
per the provision of Regulation 10 of the GERC Regulations. However, as the
Informant has chosen not to apply for LTOA and, therefore, its request for
open access is to be considered as per the existing capacity. While the
distribution licensee and LTOA users contribute to the capital cost of the
transmission line as well as for its upgradation, the short term open access
users do not contribute towards its capital cost. Thus, owing to these
peculiarities, the short term users will be given open access only for the
margin available after meeting the requirements of distribution licensee and
thereafter the long term users and subject to the priority of even the medium
term users.
25\. Out of the various rejections referred to by the Informant, some
applications were rejected due to absence of consent from OP-3. Regulation 16
of the GERC Regulations clearly provides that if an applicant seeking open
access is connected with a distribution licensee, then the consent of that
Distribution Licensee is required. As the Informant is connected to OP-3, the
consent from OP-3 is required. The Informant has not challenged the non-grant
of consent in those cases. The open access applications of Informant were
rejected due to the transmission constraints and not due to any collusion with
distribution companies such as OP-3 or any other entity.
26\. The decision of OP-2 is taken in accordance with Regulation 43 dealing
with the computation of capacity availability for open access. The constraints
in the line are notified on website of OP-1. Further, the data pertaining to
maximum Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 13 of 33 loading for the previous month, the
month for which NOC was applied for has been furnished by OP-2 in its
response.
27\. It was highlighted that as per the allotment of priority under Regulation
19 of the GERC Regulations, in case a person surrenders the contract demand or
reduces the quantum of contract demand, the capacity so surrendered or reduced
becomes surplus and is used for the requirements of other consumers of the
Distribution Licensee. Under the GERC Regulations, the distribution licensee
for retail supply of power has the highest priority. Even if it is assumed
that there are no other consumers of the distribution licensee, the priority
over the transmission capacity would be given to the LTOA first, then to MTOA
consumers and lastly to STOA applicants.
28\. Relying on these submissions, it was submitted that there has been no
abuse of dominant position by OP-2 in denying the open access applications of
the Informant, as the denial was purely based on transmission constraint. It
was further submitted that even if the Commission reaches a conclusion that
the transmission constraint cited by OP-2, while denying open access to the
Informant, is found to be incorrect, the same cannot be held as abuse of
dominant position but only an erroneous interpretation by it with regard to
the available capacity.
29\. Lastly, it was argued that the alleged harm claimed by the Informant is
incorrect, as OP-2 had specifically informed the Informant that application
seeking permission for installation of relevant equipment does not amount to
seeking permission for open access. The Informant chose to install the
necessary equipment before grant of open access. Further, the claim of average
cost of electricity made by the Informant is also incorrect.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 14 of 33
Reply/ Objections filed by OP-3
30\. The learned counsel appearing for OP-3, Ms. Swapna Seshadri, refuted all
the allegations against OP-3 and vehemently argued that any electricity
consumer on its network can opt for open access if the said consumer is
eligible for open access as per the GERC Regulations. It was clarified that
there is no system constraint in the distribution lines and OP-3 has never
blocked/refused open- access to any applicant. The constraint, cited by OP-2,
is with regard to the upstream network which is not within the realm or
control of OP-3.
31\. The Commission has examined the information available on record,
including the submissions filed by the parties, and heard the oral submissions
made by their respective learned counsels on 22.11.2017. The Informant is
primarily aggrieved with the denial of open access and, consequently, the
right to choose its electricity supplier which, according to the Informant, is
guaranteed under EA03. This denial has been alleged to be an abusive exercise
of the dominant position held by OP-2 in the relevant market, wherein open
access applications made by the Informant have been persistently denied by
OP-2. Contravention of various provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act have been
cited by the Informant which will be dealt with in the ensuing paragraphs.
32\. Before analysing the said allegations within the realm of the Act, it is
pertinent to deal with the preliminary objection raised by OP-1 regarding
maintainability of the present case on account of lack of Commission's
jurisdiction to entertain the present matter, which, as per OP-1/OP-2, falls
under the sole domain of the electricity regulator.
33\. OP-2 has relied upon the judgment dated 16.02.2017 passed by the hon'ble
erstwhile COMPAT in Appeal No. 33 of 2016 (Anand Prakash Agarwal v Dakshin
Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited) to argue that the EA03 has its own system
of addressing the issues of abuse of dominance and other Case No. 39 of 2017
Page 15 of 33 consumer grievances. It is submitted that Section 60 of EA03
authorises the Appropriate Commission to issue such directions as it considers
appropriate to a licensee or a generating company, if it abuses its dominant
position or enters into a combination which is likely to cause or causes an
adverse effect on competition in the electricity industry. Further, vide the
same order, the erstwhile COMPAT held that Sections 173 and 174 of EA03
provide that the provisions of the EA03 'have an overriding effect except that
such provisions or any rule or regulation made thereunder shall not have any
effect insofar as these are inconsistent with the provisions of the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 or Atomic Energy Act, 1962 or the Railways Act, 1989. The
legislature has not put the Competition Act amongst the Acts whose provisions
were to prevail over the provision of the Electricity Act. Thus, in the case
of a conflict between the provisions of the Electricity Act and the
Competition Act, the former will override because Section 174 of the
Electricity Act would get attracted and Section 175 of the Electricity Act
will have to yield'. It is further argued that based on these observations the
erstwhile COMPAT has concluded that there is an implied immunity from the
Competition law in matters of electricity tariff approved by the Appropriate
Commission in terms of EA03.
34\. Relying on this judgment of the Hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT, OP-1/OP-2 has
claimed that the Commission does not have jurisdiction to deal with the
present matter and though the above decision was related to electricity
tariff, the issue of open access also falls within the purview of the
Appropriate Commission.
35\. The Commission has perused the decision of the Hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT
and heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for OP-1 and OP-2. To
appreciate the objection raised by OP-1/OP-2, it is necessary to understand
the background facts that led to the Hon'ble COMPAT's order in Anand Prakash
Agarwal v Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited case. Shri Case No. 39 of
2017 Page 16 of 33 Anand Prakash Agarwal, the Informant in the said case, a
consumer of electricity was taking electricity from Dakshin Haryana Bijli
Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), who was one of the licensed supplier of electricity in
the State of Haryana supplying power to the area in which Anand Prakash
Agarwal was residing. It was alleged that DHBVN, being the sole supplier of
electricity to the area where his residence was located, it was imposing
unfair and discriminatory price upon consumers by charging Fuel and Power
Purchase Cost Surcharge Adjustment ("FSA"), which was in the nature of
uncontrollable cost incurred in the supply chain on account of variations in
the input cost prices of fuel, as one of the components added to the price of
electricity supplied. Further, it was alleged that DHBVN was charging higher
FSA from the consumers whose consumption of electricity was higher and thereby
allegedly directly imposing an unfair and discriminatory price upon consumers
and cross subsidizing the FSA cost. Though the Commission agreed with the
Informant with regard to the dominance of DHBVN in the relevant market, the
Commission did not agree that differential pricing in that case constituted
abuse of dominance in terms of Section 4 of the Act. The Commission prima
facie found the classification to have economic justification based on market
segmentation and the same was not held to be discriminatory. Further, the
Commission categorically stated that the said case was one related to the
functions discharged by the Electricity Distribution Company and the State
Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) in respect of fixation of FSA and no
competition issue was discernible from the facts presented. The relevant
excerpts of the Commission's order in this regard are reproduced below:
> "15. The issue highlighted by the Informant in the present case essentially
> relates to the functions discharged by the Electricity Distribution Company
> and the State Electricity Regulatory Commission in respect of fixation of
> FSA; and no competition issue is discernible from the facts presented in the
> information.[......]."
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 17 of 33
36\. Thus, vide order dated 10.02.2016, the Commission closed the case under
Section 26(2) of the Act. Shri Anand Prakash Agarwal, the Informant, preferred
an appeal to the hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT against the order of the Commission.
One of the issue framed by the erstwhile COMPAT for consideration was whether
the Commission had the jurisdiction in the matter of alleged abuse of
dominance arising from computation and levy of FSA which was approved by the
HERC. While dealing with the said issue, the COMPAT held that the Commission
did not have jurisdiction in the matter of alleged abuse of dominance arising
from computation and levy of FSA which was approved by the HERC.
37\. This has been relied upon by OP-1 and OP-2 in the present case to argue
that the Commission does not have jurisdiction in the matter concerning
electricity sector. The Commission is of the view that the interpretation
suggested by the learned counsel of OP-1/OP-2 is not only flawed but also
opposed to the basic tenets of statutory interpretation.
38\. By relying on the non-obstante provisions in Section 174 and 175 of the
EA03, the OPs have suggested that the operation of competition law is
overridden by the said provisions.
39\. At the outset, the Commission notes that the ruling of COMPAT, which has
been relied upon by OP-1/OP-2, is not inconsistent with what was held by the
Commission in its order dated 10.02.2016. The Commission did not assume its
jurisdiction to decide the case pertaining to 'determination of tariffs' and
'other essential functions discharged by the State Electricity Regulatory
Commission' in respect of fixation of FSA. Rather, the Commission
categorically acknowledged the domain of State Electricity Regulatory
Commission to deal with such technical matters. The relevant excerpt
reproduced below is relevant in this respect:
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 18 of 33
> "15. [.......] Further, as noted earlier, OP-1 computes and levies FSA as
> per the Regulations framed by OP-2. Any issue regarding non-compliance of
> the Regulations would be thus, dealt with by OP-2. Any person aggrieved by
> the decision of a State Electricity Regulatory Commission could also appeal
> such decision before the Appellate Authority under the Electricity Act,
> 2003."
40\. Thus, there does not seem to be real or ostensible discrepancy in the
view taken by the Commission and opinion expressed by the hon'ble erstwhile
COMPAT in Anand Prakash Agarwal v Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited
case. Rather, the Commission unequivocally expressed its hesitation, in the
said order dated 10.02.2016, in adjudicating on an issue that falls within the
sole domain of the electricity regulator. The hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT
reiterated the stand taken by the Commission while giving its conclusion on
the issue of jurisdiction as is clear from the ratio of the said order,
reproduced below:
> 18.11 We are of the view that, there is an implied immunity from the
> Competition law in matters of electricity tariff approved by the Appropriate
> Commission in terms of the Electricity Act, 2003 and therefore, the
> Appellant cannot seek any relief under the Competition Act.
41\. The aforesaid ratio of the hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT clearly indicates
that the said judgment was only with respect to matters pertaining to
electricity tariff approved by the Appropriate Commission under the EA03.
42\. Certainly, EA03 is a special legislation governing, inter-alia, matters
pertaining to generation, transmission and supply of electricity. However, to
argue that in all matters in the electricity industry EA03 would prevail over
the provisions of the Act, because of the presence of a sectoral regulator,
would go against the spirit of the said statute as well as against the purpose
for which the Act was enforced. The Commission notes that various provisions
of Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 19 of 33 EA03 and the policies made thereunder
unequivocally expresses the intention of the legislature to promote
competition. It is unconceivable that by inserting Section 174 and 175, the
legislature had intended to oust the jurisdiction of the Commission. The OPs
have specifically highlighted the provisions of Section 173 of EA03 which
states that '[n]othing contained in this Act or any rule or regulation made
thereunder or any instrument having effect by virtue of this Act, rule or
regulation shall have effect in so far as it is inconsistent with any other
provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 or the Atomic Energy Act, 1962
or the Railways Act, 1989'. It has been argued that the fact that the
legislature has not included the Act, i.e. Competition Act, 2002, along with
Consumer Protection Act, 1986 or the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 or the Railways
Act, 1989, shows that the intention was to give supremacy to EA03 over the
provisions of the Act. To further substantiate this argument, OP- 1/OP-2 has
argued that both EA03 and Competition Act, 2002 are special statutes and since
EA03 was enforced on a later date, it will have an overriding effect.
43\. The Commission finds these arguments opposed to the basic rules of
statutory interpretation. The latin maxim of generalia specialibus non
derogant suggests that where a general statute and a special statute relating
to the same subject matter cannot be reconciled, the special statute
ordinarily will prevail. And in case where a subject matter is covered by two
statutes, both of which are special, the one enforced on a later date
ordinarily prevails. However, these rules of statutory construction are not
absolute in nature but merely indicate the statutory meaning that can be
overcome by textual indications that point in the other direction. The first
attempt, while resolving such conflicting provisions, should be aimed at
giving effect to both the provisions so as to not render any of those
redundant. This position has been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
plethora of cases.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 20 of 33
44\. Where there is a conflict between any two special statutes, the
constitutional bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its judgment in Ashoka
Marketing Limited v. Punjab National Bank [(1990) 4 SCC 406] has provided
guidance. Relevant portions are extracted here:
> "In other words, both the enactments, namely, the Rent Control Act and the
> Public Premises Act, are special statutes in relation to the matters dealt
> with therein. Since, the Public premises Act is a special statute and not a
> general enactment the exception contained in the principle that a subsequent
> general law cannot derogate from an earlier special law cannot be invoked
> and in accordance with the principle that the later laws abrogate earlier
> contrary laws, the Public Premises Act must prevail over the Rent Control
> Act. We arrive at the same conclusion by applying the principle which is
> followed for resolving a conflict between the provisions of two special
> enactments made by the same legislature. We may in this context refer to
> some of the cases which have come before this Court where the provisions of
> two enactments made by the same legislature were found to be inconsistent
> and each enactment was claimed to be a special enactment and had a non
> obstante clause giving overriding effect to its provisions."
45\. Relying on various other judgements, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as
under:
> "The principle which emerges from these decisions is that in the case of
> inconsistency between the provisions of two enactments, both of which can be
> regarded as Special in nature, the conflict has to be resolved by reference
> to the purpose and policy underlying the two enactments and the clear
> intendment conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions therein. We
> propose to consider this matter in the light of this principle."
46\. Both, the EA03 and the Act, are special statutes. However, both have
their designated spheres of operation. The former aims at regulating
activities in the electricity industry and the latter aims at promoting
competition in every sphere and sector of the economy. The jurisdiction of the
Act extends to all Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 21 of 33 sectors of the economy
and sectors regulated by sector specific laws such as telecommunication,
electricity, petroleum, insurance etc. are also included within the ambit of
the Act for the competition related matters/issues. To this extent there is no
conflict as both these statutes have their respective and mutually exclusive
regulatory regimes. This observation is in sync with the Commission's holding
in many previous cases in the electricity sector and other regulated sectors.
As observed by the Commission in Case No. 91 of 2014 (Open Access Users
Association vs. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited & Ors.), the mandate of
the Commission is to eliminate practices having adverse effect on competition,
promote and sustain competition, protect the interests of consumers and ensure
freedom of trade carried on by other participants, in markets in India.
Sectoral regulators have necessary technical expertise to determine access,
maintain standard, ensure safety and determine tariff. The issues relating to
entry conditions, technical details, tariff, safety standards have direct
control on prices, quantity and quality primarily seems to be within the
exclusive ambit of sectoral regulators. Thus, sectoral regulators focus on the
dynamics of specific sectors, whereas the Commission focuses on functioning of
the markets by way of increasing efficiency through competition. In fact, the
role played by the Commission and the sectoral regulators are complementary
and supplementary to each other as they share the common objective of
obtaining maximum benefit for the consumers.
47\. Thus, the Commission is of the view that there is no issue of conflict in
the present case between the provisions of EA03 and the provisions of the Act
which cannot be reconciled adopting the harmonious construction. Though EA03
is a special statute for the purposes of dealing with electricity matters, the
Competition Act, 2002 is a special statute for regulating competition in the
market. Just because there is a provision in EA03 suggesting that the
Appropriate Commission may issue directions to a licensee or a generating
company if such licensee or generating company enters into any agreement or
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 22 of 33 abuses its dominant position, does not mean
that this provision in EA03 is a special provision. For any competition
related matter, the Act is a special statute, being the market regulator
mandated to promote and regulate competition in the market.
48\. Further, it will not be out of context to highlight a recent case where
the issue of jurisdiction of Competition Act vis-à-vis a sectoral regulator
has recently been dealt with. In the matter of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson
(Publ) vs. CCI [WP (C) NO. 464/ 2014 AND WP (C) NO. 1006/2014], the question
of jurisdiction of CCI in matter related to abuse by an IPR holder was
considered. The hon'ble Delhi High Court held that there is no irreconcilable
repugnancy or conflict between the Competition Act and the Patents Act. In the
absence of any irreconcilable conflict between the two legislations, the
jurisdiction of CCI to entertain complaints for abuse of dominance in respect
of Patent rights cannot be ousted.
49\. Based on the aforesaid discussion, the Commission is of the considered
view that, keeping in view the object and purpose underlying both the
enactments viz., the EA03 and the Act (i.e. Competition Act, 2002), it does
not appear that the provisions of the Act are in any way superseded by the
EA03, in the context of the facts and allegations under consideration. The
mandate of the Act is vast and its jurisdiction cannot be perceived to be
ousted by EA03. The COMPAT's judgment relied upon by OP-1/OP-2 is only with
respect to electricity tariff, which the Commission had also held that issues
pertaining to electricity tariff fall within the ambit of the State
Electricity Regulatory Commissions. Thus, the Commission holds that it has
jurisdiction to proceed with the present matter.
50\. Moving further with the main issues, the Commission observes that the
assessment of Informant's allegations requires determination of the following:
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 23 of 33
Issue 1: Whether OP-1/OP-2 hold a dominant position in the relevant market?
Issue 2: Whether the Informant has been denied Open Access and whether such
denial amounts to a contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act?
51\. For holistic determination of the aforementioned issues, the Commission
finds that it is imperative to understand the background and context which led
to the enforcement of EA03. Historically, the electricity sector in India
featured vertically integrated monopolies that was operated and managed by
State Electricity Boards ("SEBs"), which were subject to strict regulation.
The SEBs were autonomous bodies responsible for the development and operation
of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity within each State.
The performance of such SEBs, however, was plagued with various issues that
led to inefficiencies and low productivity. The EA03 was envisaged to bring
structural changes in the electricity regulatory regime by unbundling the
functions performed by SEBs into three so as to induce competition in every
sub-segment. License-free generation, non-discriminatory open access in the
transmission system and gradual implementation of open access in the
distribution system were some of the salient features which were designed to
pave way for creation of power market in India. Competition in distribution
was mainly envisaged by ensuring non-discriminatory open-access in
transmission and distribution so as to allow an efficient match-making between
the consumers and alternative source of power suppliers. Further, competition
in retail supply was envisaged through electricity exchanges where power
generators and consumers could interact to sell and purchase electricity.
52\. However, it has been argued by the Informant that despite express
legislative intent, competition in the electricity sector has been compromised
by the incumbent state utilities which have ensured that unbundling remains
only on Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 24 of 33 papers. Ownership structure of the
different sub-segments in the electricity value chain has been illustrated to
argue that mere functional autonomy has been introduced by various State
Governments, as opposed to the ownership separation prescribed, while
transitioning to EA03 regime.
53\. Against the aforesaid backdrop, the Commission has analysed the
issues/allegations raised in the information. It is the Informant's case that
dominance as well as anti-competitive intent is attributable to the inter-
linkages between OP-1, OP-2 and OP-3. The following figure explains the
transition from erstwhile Gujarat Electricity Board into the newly formed
entities in the unbundled regime under the Gujarat Electricity Industry Re-
organization & Comprehensive Transfer Scheme, 2003:
> GEB (Gujarat Electricity Board) Post EA03 GUVNL (Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam
> Ltd.) GSECL GETCO/OP-1 MGVCL (Madhya UGVCL PGVCL/OP-3 DGVCL (Gujarat State
> (Gujarat Energy Gujarat Vij (Gujarat Vij (Paschim (Dakshin Electricity Corp
> Transmission Company Ltd.) Company Ltd.) Gujarat Vij Gujarat Vij Ltd.)
> Corporation Ltd.) Company Ltd.) Company Ltd.) Wholly Owned Subsidiary GETCO-
> SLDC/OP-2
54\. For the purpose of assessing dominance, delineation of relevant market,
with reference to the relevant product market as well as relevant geographic
market, as per Section 2(r) of the Act is required. The relevant product
market  Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 25 of 33 as defined under Section 2 (t) of
the Act means "a market comprising of all those products or services which are
regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of
characteristics of the products or services, their prices and intended use."
55\. The determining factor for defining relevant product market is demand
side interchangeability/ substitutability of the product, from the point of
view of factors such as basic characteristics, intended end-use, price etc. In
the present case, the Informant is aggrieved by the alleged abusive conduct of
OP-2 in disallowing open access permission to it for use of transmission
infrastructure of OP-1 for sourcing electricity from a source other than the
distribution licensee i.e. OP-3. The Informant is, accordingly, a consumer of
services relating to usage of transmission services/facilities for availing
open access transmission of electricity. Thus, the Commission is of the view
that the relevant product market appears to be "market for services relating
to use of transmission facility for availing open access electricity".
56\. The relevant geographic market as defined under Section 2(s) of the Act
means the "market comprising the area in which the conditions of competition
for supply of goods or provision of services or demand of goods or services
are distinctly homogenous and can be distinguished from the conditions
prevailing in the neighbouring areas." As highlighted supra, electricity is a
subject that falls under the concurrent list of the Indian Constitution. With
regard to regulations governing open access framework, the intra-state open
access is regulated by each individual state. The instant case pertains to
State of Gujarat where the services and infrastructure for drawing open access
power is governed by the GERC Regulations. Each State is governed by separate
intra-State open access regulations and as the present dispute pertains to
intra-State open access is Gujarat, the conditions for open access electricity
would be consistent/ homogeneous in the State of Gujarat; and would be
distinct from those prevailing in neighbouring States. Considering these Case
No. 39 of 2017 Page 26 of 33 aspects, the Commission opines that the relevant
geographic market would be the state of 'Gujarat'. On the basis of above, the
relevant market would be the "market for services relating to use of
transmission facility for availing open access electricity in the State of
Gujarat."
57\. Having delineated the relevant market, the next issue is to determine
whether OP-2 holds a position of dominance, as alleged, in the said relevant
market. The Act defines 'dominant position' under explanation (a) to Section 4
as, "a position of strength enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market,
in India, which enables it to (a) operate independently of competitive forces
prevailing in the relevant market; or (b) affect its competitors or consumers
or the relevant market in its favor".
58\. Besides statutory position held by OP-2, the Informant has also relied
upon factors enshrined under Section 19(4) of the Act such as highest market
share, comparative size and resources, economic power of OPs being an
undertaking of the Government, vertical integration amongst OP-1, OP-2 & OP-3,
dependence of consumers on OP-2 to seek open access permission, and OP- 1/OP-2
enjoying statutory monopoly position etc.
59\. The Commission notes that the underlying principle for assessing
dominance of an enterprise is linked to the market power enjoyed by the
enterprise. An enterprise is regarded as dominant if it enjoys/possesses a
position of strength in the relevant market, which enables it to operate
independently of competitive forces prevailing in the relevant market; or
affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in its favour.
60\. In the present case, the Informant, a subscriber of power from OP-3, has
been an applicant of STOA in the state of Gujarat. While inter-state open
access is governed by CERC (Open Access in inter-state Transmission)
Regulations, 2008 ('Central Regulations'), the intra-state open access is
governed by the State level regulations. In Gujarat, the same is governed by
GERC Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 27 of 33 Regulations. It is submitted by the
Informant that OP-2 is a statutory body constituted under Section 31(1) read
with Section 31(2) of EA03, which specifically lays down 'regulation of
transmission facilities to avail open access electricity' as a primary
function of SLDC, i.e. OP-2.
61\. As per Regulation 8 of the GERC Regulations, the nodal agency for
permitting short term open access within the State of Gujarat shall be the
SLDC i.e. OP-2. Every consumer desirous of availing open access for supply of
electricity in Gujarat has to obtain the approval of OP-2, which is the
condition precedent. Being the nodal agency, it has the sole prerogative to
allow or disallow open access permission, though subject to the GERC
Regulations. Thus, considering this statutory compulsion of approaching OP-2
for every open access request, it is apparent that OP-2 holds a dominant
position in the relevant market. The other factors i.e. OP-2 holding 100%
market share, dependence of consumers on OP-2 for availing open access are
direct fall-outs of this statutory arrangement. Thus, although the Informant
has relied upon the comparative size and resources of OP-1 (since OP-1 is the
parent company of OP-2) with similar entities in other States, the same will
not have much bearing on the assessment of dominance. Irrespective of the
comparative strength held by any of the transmission utility/SLDC, if the
statute bestows an entity with the absolute power to decide on the open access
applications, the said entity will have a strong position vis-à-vis the
applicants.
62\. For the aforesaid reasons, OP-2 seems to hold a dominant position in the
relevant market owing to the statutory provisions and powers accorded to it
under the EA03 read with GERC Regulations.
63\. The Informant has alleged that though OP-2 ought to decide requests for
open access permission with regard to facility owned and operated by OP-1
independently, the inter-linkages between OP-1, OP-2 and OP-3 affects its
independence. It has been argued that the anti-competitive intent can be read
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 28 of 33 into the denials by OP-2, when read in the
light of inter-linkages between OP- 1, OP-2 and OP-3, since denial to the
Informant would safeguard the contracted demand of electricity for OP-3.
64\. The Informant has alleged that by denying open access permission to the
Informant, OP-2 has contravened the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the
Act as there has been an imposition of unfair terms and conditions. The
Commission is of the view that contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) can be made
out only when there is a sale of goods/services and certain terms and/or
conditions are imposed which are unfair or discriminatory. Since in the
present case the main allegation is that of outright denial of permission, and
not of imposition of unfair/discriminatory terms/conditions in the sale of
goods or services, prima facie a contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the
Act is not established.
65\. The Informant has further alleged that denial of open access permission
to Informant and other similarly placed consumers/power generators, OP-2 (also
OP-1) has limited and restricted production of electricity and the provision
of supply of open access electricity. The Commission observes that the
provisions of the EA03 are very indicative of the intention of the legislature
to facilitate competition and trading of electricity in a smooth and non-
discriminatory manner. Open Access is considered as one of the most
progressive provision for meeting that objective. The National Electricity
Policy, 2005, under Clause 5.3.3, states that 'Open Access in transmission has
been introduced to promote competition amongst the generating companies who
can now sell to different distribution licensees across the country. This
should lead to availability of cheaper power. The Act mandates non-
discriminatory open access in transmission from the very beginning. When open
access to distribution networks is introduced by the respective State
Commissions for enabling bulk consumers to buy directly from competing
generators, competition in the market would increase the availability of Case
No. 39 of 2017 Page 29 of 33 cheaper and reliable power supply. However,
despite such enabling provisions, open access seems to have not been adopted
with the right spirit. The present case highlights the instances of continuous
denials by OP-2 to the Informant, which ultimately limits/restricts the
production of goods (i.e. electricity) by the power generators) as markets
will not evolve unless the demand of products/services is boosted. By denying
open access permission, to the Informant and possibly to other consumers, OP-2
appears to have curtailed or discouraged the demand for open access
electricity. Thus, it seems that prima facie OP-2 has limited and restricted
production of electricity and the provision of supply of open access
electricity in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(i) of the
Act.
66\. The next allegations are with regard to the contravention of Section
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. It has been alleged that consistent
denials of Informant's STOA applications by OP-2 has led to denial of market
access to the Informant as well as other power generators, in terms of section
4(2)(c) of the Act, who can supply to the Informant through open access.
Further, OP-1 has allegedly manipulated the downstream distribution market in
favour of its sister-concern distribution facility (i.e. OP-3) by virtue of
being a parent entity for OP-2 and has therefore, contravened provisions of
Section 4(2)(e) of the Act.
67\. The Commission notes that the Informant, in the present case, has applied
for STOA to OP-2 on 12 different occasions. However, most of those requests
were denied by OP-2 citing upstream network constraints. The Informant argues
that denials were arbitrary and discriminatory, though OP-2 alleges that they
were based on the GERC Regulations. During the preliminary conference, the
Informant stated that OP-2 has admitted that the designed capacity for the
transmission lines is 35MW and in its written submissions, OP-2 has submitted
data regarding the maximum loading for previous months Case No. 39 of 2017
Page 30 of 33 as against this designed capacity for all those months when the
Informant applied for STOA. The said data is reproduced below:
                    Month       applied Previous month Design Capacity           Maximum Load
                    for                 to be considered
                    Sept 2014           Aug 2014             35                  40.8
                    Oct 2014            Sept 2014            35                  39.5
                    Nov 2014            Oct 2014             35                  43.3
                    Jan 2015            Dec 2014             35                  39.8
                    Feb 2015            Jan 2015             35                  33.3
                    July 2015           June 2015            35                  51.5
                    Aug 2015            July 2015            35                  54.2
                    Nov 2015            Oct 2015             35                  44.3
                    April 2016          March 2016           35                  36.5
                    Sept 2016           Aug 2016             35                  42.4
                                                                               (emphasis supplied)
68\. Relying on the aforesaid data, the Informant submitted that there is no
basis to justify as to how OP-2 allowed maximum load for the transmission line
to be 51.5 MW for one period and not allow its STOA application when the
maximum load for a previous month was as less as 33.3 MW. It was alleged that
even if OP-2's submissions are accepted that contract demand cannot be
substituted for open access demand, the Informant's application for the period
February 2015 was wrongly denied as the maximum load during that period was
lesser than the design capacity.
69\. The main issue that needs to be ascertained is whether the denial by
OP-2, citing systems constraint, was valid ground for denial or a mere charade
to discourage consumers from opting out of the distribution network of OP-3.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 31 of 33
70\. The Commission observes that as per the Hon'ble COMPAT's view in M/s
Kansan News Private Ltd. Case, denial of market access is a competition law
issue only when such denial is occasioned to a competitor. In this regard, it
is relevant to note that although Informant is only a consumer in the present
case and as such not competing with OP-1 or OP-2, the denial of market access
is exclusionary to the 'source/electricity supplier' through which the
Informant was planning to access its power requirement. Further, such
'source/electricity supplier', was competing with OP-2's group entity, OP-3,
which was a group entity of OP-1 (the holding company of OP-2) and was the
licensee distributor for the Informant during the relevant time when open
access permission was denied. Prima facie, it appears that the denial of open
access permission to the Informant has resulted in a violation of Section
4(2)(c) of the Act.
71\. Further, this denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c) also seems to
be a consequent violation of Section 4(2)(e), in the present case. It appears
that OP-2 has leveraged its dominant position in the relevant market to
adversely affect the competition in the downstream market, where it is present
through its group entity OP-3. The structural linkages between the OPs as
depicted in the diagram illustrated earlier also points toward the conflict of
interest that exists in the present case. Thus, given the conflict of interest
situation that exists in the present case, anti-competitive motive behind such
denial by OP-2 cannot be ruled out and may need to be tested in detailed
investigation.
72\. Based on the foregoing analysis, the Commission is of the considered view
that prima facie, the contravention with regard to Section 4(2)(b)(i), Section
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member New Delhi Dated: 31/01/2018 Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 33 of
33
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
                Member
                Mr. U.C. Nahta
                Member
                Appearance:
                For Informant:                 Shri Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate
                                               Shri Kartik Nayar, Advocate
                                               Ms. Kanika Chaudhary Nayar, Advocate
                                               Shri Rishab Kumar, Advocate
                                               Shri Sarthak Malhotra, Advocate
                                               Shri Rudresh Pratap Singh, Advocate
                                               Ms. Modhulika Bose, Advocate
    Case No. 39 of 2017                                                   Page 1 of 33
                                                       Shri Tushar Bhardwaj, Advocate
                                                      Shri Rajiv Khanna, AGM Legal, HMPL
                                                      Shri Ramesh Kumar Rojasara, Manager
                                                      (Tech), HMPL
                For OP-1                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                For OP-2                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                                                      Shri N.N. Sheikh, Executive Engineer,
                                                      SLDC
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
                Member
                Mr. U.C. Nahta
                Member
                Appearance:
                For Informant:                 Shri Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate
                                               Shri Kartik Nayar, Advocate
                                               Ms. Kanika Chaudhary Nayar, Advocate
                                               Shri Rishab Kumar, Advocate
                                               Shri Sarthak Malhotra, Advocate
                                               Shri Rudresh Pratap Singh, Advocate
                                               Ms. Modhulika Bose, Advocate
    Case No. 39 of 2017                                                   Page 1 of 33
                                                       Shri Tushar Bhardwaj, Advocate
                                                      Shri Rajiv Khanna, AGM Legal, HMPL
                                                      Shri Ramesh Kumar Rojasara, Manager
                                                      (Tech), HMPL
                For OP-1                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                For OP-2                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                                                      Shri N.N. Sheikh, Executive Engineer,
                                                      SLDC
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
                Member
                Mr. U.C. Nahta
                Member
                Appearance:
                For Informant:                 Shri Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate
                                               Shri Kartik Nayar, Advocate
                                               Ms. Kanika Chaudhary Nayar, Advocate
                                               Shri Rishab Kumar, Advocate
                                               Shri Sarthak Malhotra, Advocate
                                               Shri Rudresh Pratap Singh, Advocate
                                               Ms. Modhulika Bose, Advocate
    Case No. 39 of 2017                                                   Page 1 of 33
                                                       Shri Tushar Bhardwaj, Advocate
                                                      Shri Rajiv Khanna, AGM Legal, HMPL
                                                      Shri Ramesh Kumar Rojasara, Manager
                                                      (Tech), HMPL
                For OP-1                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                For OP-2                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                                                      Shri N.N. Sheikh, Executive Engineer,
                                                      SLDC
                For OP-3                              Ms. Swapna Seshadri, Advocate
                            Order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act, 2002
                1.
HPCL-Mittal Pipelines Limited ('HMPL') (hereinafter, the 'Informant'/'IP')
filed the present information, under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act,
2002 (hereinafter, the 'Act') against Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation
Limited (hereinafter, the 'GETCO'/ 'OP-1'), State Load Dispatch Centre, GETCO
Gujarat (hereinafter, the 'GETCO-SLDC'/ 'OP- 2'), and Paschim Gujarat Vij
Company Limited (hereinafter, the 'PGVCL' / 'OP-3') alleging, inter alia,
contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
2\. The Informant is stated to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Hindustan
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
                Member
                Mr. U.C. Nahta
                Member
                Appearance:
                For Informant:                 Shri Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate
                                               Shri Kartik Nayar, Advocate
                                               Ms. Kanika Chaudhary Nayar, Advocate
                                               Shri Rishab Kumar, Advocate
                                               Shri Sarthak Malhotra, Advocate
                                               Shri Rudresh Pratap Singh, Advocate
                                               Ms. Modhulika Bose, Advocate
    Case No. 39 of 2017                                                   Page 1 of 33
                                                       Shri Tushar Bhardwaj, Advocate
                                                      Shri Rajiv Khanna, AGM Legal, HMPL
                                                      Shri Ramesh Kumar Rojasara, Manager
                                                      (Tech), HMPL
                For OP-1                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                For OP-2                              Ms. Ranjitha Ramachandran, Advocate
                                                      Shri N.N. Sheikh, Executive Engineer,
                                                      SLDC
                For OP-3                              Ms. Swapna Seshadri, Advocate
                            Order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act, 2002
                1.
HPCL-Mittal Pipelines Limited ('HMPL') (hereinafter, the 'Informant'/'IP')
filed the present information, under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act,
2002 (hereinafter, the 'Act') against Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation
Limited (hereinafter, the 'GETCO'/ 'OP-1'), State Load Dispatch Centre, GETCO
Gujarat (hereinafter, the 'GETCO-SLDC'/ 'OP- 2'), and Paschim Gujarat Vij
Company Limited (hereinafter, the 'PGVCL' / 'OP-3') alleging, inter alia,
contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
2\. The Informant is stated to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Hindustan
4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act is made out against OP-2, which
warrants detailed investigation into the matter. The DG is, thus, directed to
carry out a detailed investigation into the matter, in terms of Section 26(1)
of the Act, and submit a report to the Commission, within 60 days.
Case No. 39 of 2017 Page 32 of 33
73\. During the course of investigation, if involvement of any other
party/entity is found, the DG shall investigate the conduct of such other
party/entity(s) who may have indulged in the said contravention. It is,
however, made clear that nothing stated herein shall tantamount to an
expression of final opinion on the merits of the case and the DG shall conduct
the investigation without being influenced by any observations made herein.
74\. The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order, along with the
information and the documents filed therewith, to the DG.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S.L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
