Delhi High Court
Suzuki Motor vs Suzuki (India) Limited on 17 July, 2019
    $~
    * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                                       Date of Decision: 17th July, 2019
    +     CS(COMM) 235/2018 & I.A.8507/2019
          SUZUKI MOTOR                                       ... Plaintiff
                              Through:     Mr. C.D. Mulherkar and Ms. Anushka
                                           Arora, Advocates.
                              versus
          SUZUKI (INDIA) LIMITED                            ..... Defendant
                         Through:          Ms. Anjana Ahluwalia, Advocate.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                     JUDGMENT
1\. The plaintiff has instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from infringing their trade mark Suzuki, passing
off and rendition of accounts.
2\. Vide interim order dated 12th December, 2005, this Court restrained the
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
name.
3\. Defendant No.3 was deleted from the array of the parties on 07th March,
2007. Defendant No.2 ceased to be the Director of defendant No.1 on 03rd May,
1984 and is, therefore, not a necessary party. Defendant No.2 is also deleted
from the array of the parties. The sole defendant No.1 is hereinafter referred
to as "the defendant" in this judgment.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 1 of 30
4\. The plaintiff is seeking a decree under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure against the defendant 1 on the ground that the defendant has
not raised any defence in the written statement except the challenge to the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the defendant has no
office in Delhi. However, on 03rd December, 2018, the Managing Director of the
defendant admitted on oath before this Court that the defendant has its office
in Delhi. In that view of the matter, the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court is also admitted.
Submissions of the plaintiff
5\. The plaintiff started its business in Japan in the year 1909 as Suzuki
Loom Works and was incorporated as a company in the year 1920 with the name
Suzuki as the principal feature of its corporate name and trading style. The
name of the plaintiff was changed to Suzuki Motor Co. Limited in the year 1954
and its current name, namely, Suzuki Motor Corporation, was adopted in 1990.
6\. The plaintiff has business relations in about 190 countries around the
world including countries in Asia, North America, South America and Europe.
The plaintiff‟s main production facilities are located in 23 countries and
about 150 subsidiaries exist around the world. The plaintiff is a diversified
company with a global business, tremendous goodwill, reputation and brand
recall.
7\. The plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the trade mark Suzuki in
about 169 countries worldwide (with multiple registrations in most of the
countries), including India. In addition, the plaintiff owns about 5000 other
Trade Marks worldwide (400 of which contain the word Suzuki) and some of the
Trade Marks are also registered in India, e.g. Suzuki CCI, Suzuki CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 2 of 30 Swift, Alto, Suzuki Carry, Vitara, Samurai, Baleno,
outlined S-mark, Ignis, etc.
8\. The plaintiff has been using the trade mark Suzuki as a part of its
corporate name since its inception/incorporation. By reason of continuous and
extensive advertising, the trade mark Suzuki has become distinctive of the
plaintiff all over the world, including India.
9\. The plaintiff got its trade mark Suzuki registered in India in the year
1972\. The particulars of the registration of Trade Marks of the plaintiffs
are as under:-
          Trade    Registration     Date       Class                 Goods
          Mark         No.
         SUZUKI     279047B       22.03.1972    12     Vehicles: apparatus for locomotion
                                                       by land, air or water
         SUZUKI      409162       11.08.1983    7      Generators     and      internal
                                                       combustion engines included in
                                                       class 7
         SUZUKI      285669B      29.01.1973    12     Motor cycles, and parts and fittings
           CCI                                         therefore included in class 12
         SUZUKI      436474       15.04.1985    12     Parts and fittings included in class
          SWIFT                                        12 for use in motor land vehicles
         SUZUKI      436473       15.04.1985    12     Parts and fittings included in class
         CARRY                                         12 for use in motor land vehicles
         SUZUKI      679102       06.09.1995    12     Motor land vehicles, parts and
         CARRY                                         accessories thereof included in
                                                       class 12
10\. In 1982, the plaintiff entered into a joint venture with the Government
of India and also licensed its technology to the joint venture company,
namely, Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL), formerly known as Maruti Udyog
Limited. The plaintiff also permitted MSIL to use the Suzuki name / CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 3 of 30 trade mark on products manufactured by MSIL, subject to
quality control and other conditions. Pursuant to the technology licensed by
the plaintiff, MSIL launched a small car, Maruti 800 in 1983-84, which
revolutionized the Indian automobile industry with its high fuel efficiency,
contemporary design and competitive pricing.
11\. Extensive publicity was made about the fact of that the plaintiff was
entering into collaboration with the Government of India for manufacture of
cars in India. Copies of newspapers and other print media advertisements and
articles referring to the plaintiff and using the word Suzuki have been placed
on record.
12\. Around the same time i.e. 1982, the defendant with clearly dishonest and
malafide intention adopted the name Suzuki India Limited. The adoption was
with a view to encashing upon the widespread goodwill, name and reputation
attached to the plaintiff‟s name and mark Suzuki and to pass off and mislead
the public that the business of the defendant had some connection with the
plaintiff.
13\. The defendant is deemed to have notice of plaintiff‟s statutory and
exclusive right to use the trade mark Suzuki. There is no justification on
part of the defendant to use trade mark Suzuki as part of the corporate name
inasmuch as Suzuki is a Japanese surname and it is not associated with any
Indian name, place, object or term.
14\. The word Suzuki is the family name of the founder of the plaintiff and is
not in any way connected with the defendant. Reliance is placed on
Aktiebolaget Volvo v. Volvo Steels Limited, 1998 PTC (18) (Bom).
15\. No valid reason/satisfactory explanation has been provided by the
defendant for using the trade mark/name Suzuki and the same has no CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 4 of 30 connection whatsoever to the defendant. Reliance is
placed on Bata India Limited vs. M/s Pyare Lal Co., AIR 1985 Allahabad 242.
16\. In Alfred Dunhill Limited v. Kartar Singh Makkar & Ors., 1999 II AD
(Delhi) 789, this Court observed that the defendant therein adopted the well
known trade mark DUNHILL to trade upon and encash on the name, fame,
reputation, image and goodwill of the plaintiff. This Court held as under:-
> "In the suit of instant nature, the real test is whether defendants have any
> right to represent their business as the business of plaintiff. It
> ultimately leads to the question as to why defendants were using the trade
> name DUNHILL to their products. The defendants have not offered any
> explanation whatsoever as to why the mark „DUNHILL‟ was being used by them.
> The name „DUNHILL‟ is neither parental name of defendants nor in any way
> connected with them. As noticed earlier, the mark „DUNHILL‟ is attributable
> to the surname of Alfred „DUNHILL‟. All of the goods marketed by plaintiff
> company are sold under the trade mark and trade name „DUNHILL‟. The trade
> mark and trade name DUNHILL has become distinctive of the plaintiff‟s goods
> as a result of substantially exclusive and continuous use in commerce since
> 1893. Thus, in my opinion, the user of the trade name „DUNHILL‟ by
> defendants is indicative of their intent. It follows that defendants desire
> to market their goods under the name or mark „DUNHILL‟ with a view to trade
> upon and encash on the name, fame, reputation, image and goodwill acquired
> by the plaintiff company."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 17\. The explanation of the Managing Director of the defendant that his
> father knew someone by the name Suzuki does not strengthen its case but
> detracts from the truthfulness of the explanation and is clearly only an
> afterthought and is not bonafide. Reliance is placed on Aktiebolaget SKF v.
Rajesh Engineering Corporation, 1996 (16) PTC 160 (Del.).
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 5 of 30
18\. Trade Mark law is not intended to protect a person who deliberately sets
out to take the benefit of somebody else‟s reputation with reference to goods,
especially so when the reputation extends worldwide. If anyone continues to
carry the illegitimate use of a significant worldwide renowned name/mark as is
being done in this case, there cannot be any reason for not stopping the use
of a world reputed name. No one should be continued to be allowed to use a
world famed name to goods which have no connection with the type of goods
which have generated the worldwide reputation. Reliance is placed on Daimler
Benz Aktiegesellschaft v. Eagle Flask Industries Ltd., 1993 (27) DRJ 615.
19\. A trade mark which has acquired a wide reputation transcending
international barriers even though in respect of a specified class or category
of goods cannot be allowed to be violated by another person in respect of a
different category of goods because that other person will be deliberately
using the trade mark of the former with an intent to get some undue advantage
because of its reputation and goodwill. Reliance is placed on Sony Kabushiki
Kaisha v. Mahaluxmi Textile Mills, 2009 (41) PTC 184 (Cal) (FB).
20\. An injunction is necessary if it prima facie appears that the adoption of
the trade mark was itself dishonest and even delay in bringing action is not
sufficient to defeat grant of injunction. Reliance is placed on Midas Hygiene
Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Sudhir Bhatia, (2004) 3 SCC 90.
21\. Where the adoption of the mark is ex-facie fraudulent and malafide from
the very inception, injunction should follow. Reliance is placed on the Timken
Company v. Timken Services Pvt. Ltd., 2013 (55) PTC 568).
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 6 of 30
22\. Mere concurrent user is not sufficient in law and such user must be
honest. Reliance is placed on Lupin Laboratories v. Jain Products, 1998 100
(2) Bom LR 604.
23\. A fair and honest trader will not give a misleading name to his product
to the continuing detriment of the plaintiff who has built up his goodwill in
the business after years of hard work. It is this intangible right to property
which the law seeks to protect. Reliance is placed on B.K. Engineering Co. v.
Ubhi Enterprises, ILR (1985) 1 Delhi 525.
24\. The foundation of the law of infringement of the trademark, copyright and
of passing off is honesty. No one shall be permitted to enrich himself on the
goodwill and reputation built up or earned by anyone else. Reliance is placed
on LT Foods Limited v. Sulson Overseas Pvt. Ltd., (192) 2012 DLT
373\.
25\. With the changed concept of passing off action, it is now not material
for a passing off action that the plaintiff and the defendant should trade in
the same field. Reliance is placed on Honda Motors Company Ltd. v. Charanjit
Singh, 2003 (26) PTC 1 (Del).
26\. An injunction has to be granted where there is possibility of confusion
even if the defendant adopted the name innocently. Reliance is placed on
Laxmikant v. Patel Chetanbhai Shah, (2002) 3 SCC 65.
27\. Section 20 of the Companies Act, 1956 treats a name of the company to be
undesirable if it is identical with or too nearly resembles the name by which
a company in existence has been previously registered. Since the legislature
itself considers name of a company which is identical with the name of the
other pre-existing company to be undesirable, the legislative intent must be
given effect to by giving injunctive relief to a plaintiff against CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 7 of 30 a defendant who has copied the corporate name of the
plaintiff. Reliance is placed on Montari Overseas Limited v. Montari
Industries Limited, ILR 1997 Delhi 64.
Submissions of the defendant
28\. Defendant has not made any admission in the written statement and
therefore, the decree is not warranted under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. Reliance is placed on Raj Kumar Chawla v. Lucas Indian
Services, 2006 (89) DRJ 560 (DB) and S.M. Asif v. Virender Kumar Bajaj, (2015)
9 SCC 287.
29\. The present suit has been filed without any cause of action against the
defendant, which is a company using trademark/name Suzuki as a part of its
trade name Suzuki India Limited since 1982. The defendant has earned
substantial goodwill by way of honest concurrent and uninterrupted use of the
trademark/name Suzuki as a part of his trade name Suzuki India Limited since
1982 in relation to its investment business and finance business decades prior
to when the plaintiff started using its mark in India.
30\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit after an uncondonable delay of
over 25 years; and this delay should be strictly construed against the
plaintiff, and points at its malafide intent behind filing the present suit.
The suit has been filed belatedly as the plaintiff has deliberately, and for
reasons best known to it, not objected to the defendant‟s honest, bonafide and
uninterrupted use of the trade mark/name Suzuki as a part of its trade name
Suzuki India Limited since 1982. The delay of over 25 years in exercising its
legal remedy should be construed as acquiescence on part of the plaintiff
under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 i.e. sitting on its rights; and as a principle
of natural justice the right to object to the defendant‟s honest concurrent
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 8 of 30 bonafide use of the trademark/name Suzuki
as a part of its trade name Suzuki India Limited stands waived. Reliance is
placed on Wockhardt Ltd. v. Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (2018) SCC OnLine SC
1778, Khoday Distilleries Ltd. v. Scotch Whisky, (2008) 10 SCC 723 and Power
Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd., (1994) 2 SCC 448.
31\. The plaintiff has indulged in „forum shopping‟ by having filed the
present suit before this Court, as no part of the cause of action has arisen
in the jurisdiction of this Court. Further, the defendant company is
incorporated in Kolkata, having its registered office in Kolkata, and carrying
on its business from there; and the defendant has no business in the
jurisdiction of this Court. Hence, the present suit is barred by way of
territorial jurisdiction before this Court; and should be dismissed on this
ground alone. The plaintiff has made a cause of action by claiming that it
gained knowledge of the defendant company only when it applied to the
Registrar of Companies for registering the company name Suzuki India Pvt. Ltd.
Reliance is placed on IPRS v. Sanjay Dalia, (2015) 10 SCC 161 and Ultra Home
Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Purshottam Chaubey, (2016) SCC OnLine Del 376. Even
if assumed though not admitted that the plaintiff has acquired association and
reputation in the trademark/name Suzuki but it is however, as per their own
plaint, only limited to a specific category of goods i.e. in the automobiles
category in the broad classes of goods 4, 7 and 12 for vehicles; apparatus for
locomotion by land; generators and internal combustion engines; motorcycles
and part fittings; and lubricating oils for internal combustion engines; etc.
Further, for the sake of argument, even if assumed though not admitted, the
plaintiff can claim reputation in the trademark/name Suzuki only for
automobiles; and this does not ipso facto CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 9 of 30
spill to or cover other classes of goods; more particularly services offered
by the defendant. The plaintiff cannot be allowed to claim monopoly over other
classes of goods. Reliance is placed on Sumeet Research and Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
v. Sipra Appliances, (2018) SCC OnLine Del 11341, Vishnudas Trading v. Vazir
Sultan, (1997) 4 SCC 201, P.M. Diesels Pvt. Ltd. v. Thukral Mechanical Works,
(1988) 15 DRJ 47 and Nandhini Deluxe v. Karnataka Co-operative, (2018) 9 SCC
183.
32\. The statement of Mr. R.K. Bagrodia, recorded on 03rd December, 2018 has
already apprised this Court that his father had adopted the words Suzuki as
part of its corporate name on the name of his friend. Further, the word Suzuki
is a common surname in Japan; and various companies in India are using the
said name as part of their corporate name. The plaintiff cannot claim monopoly
to use the name Suzuki with respect to all classes of goods under the Trade
Mark Rules. The defendant‟s use of the trade mark/name Suzuki would in no
manner confuse/deceive an average customer into believing that the defendant‟s
goods/services and business have any association with that of the plaintiff,
as the defendant has no relation with the automobile industry.
Relevant Provisions
33\. Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure empowers the Court to
pass a decree if the admissions of the defendant are sufficient to pass a
decree. Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure is reproduced
hereunder:
> "ORDER XII-ADMISSIONS CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 10 of 30 Rule 6. Judgment on
> admissions-
> (1) Where admissions of fact have been made either in the pleading or
> otherwise, whether orally or in writing, the Court may at any stage of the
> suit, either on the application of any party or of its own motion and
> without waiting for the determination of any other question between the
> parties, make such order or give such judgment as it may think fit, having
> regard to such admissions.
> (2) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under sub-rule (1), a decree shall be
> drawn up in accordance with the judgment and the decree shall bear the date
> on which the judgment was pronounced."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 34\. The law on the scope of Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure
> is well settled. If express/implied admissions are on record, there is no
> impediment for the Court to pass a decree. Object of Order XII Rule 6 CPC is
> that litigation should not continue unnecessarily, if there is any admission
> on behalf of the defendant or an admission which can be inferred from the
> facts and circumstances of the case.
35\. In Uttam Singh Duggal and Co. Ltd. v. Union Bank of India, AIR 2000 SC
2740, the Supreme Court held that the object of Order XII Rule 6 of Code of
Civil Procedure is to enable a party to obtain speedy judgment on admissions
and Order XII Rule 6 of Code of Civil Procedure should not be unduly narrowed
down. The Supreme Court held as under:-
> "12. As to the object of the Order 12 Rule 6, we need not say anything more
> than what the Legislature itself has said when the said provision came to be
> amended. In the objects and reasons set out while amending the said rule, it
> is stated that where a claim is admitted, the Court has jurisdiction to
> enter a judgment for the plaintiff and to pass a decree on admitted claim.
> The object of the rule is to enable the party to obtain a speedy judgment at
> least to the extent of the relief to which according to the admission of the
> defendant, the plaintiff is entitled. We should not unduly narrow down the
> meaning CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 11 of 30 of this rule as the object is to
> enable a party to obtain speedy judgment. Where other party has made a plain
> admission entitling the former to succeed, it should apply and also wherever
> there is a clear admission of facts in the face of which, it is impossible
> for the party making such admission to succeed."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 36\. Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure confers wide powers on
> the Court to pass a decree on admissions. However, a judgment on admissions
> under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not a matter of
> right but a matter of discretion of the Court to be exercised judiciously.
> In ITDC Ltd. v. M/s. Chander Pal Sood and Son, 84 (2000) DLT 337 DB, the
> Division Bench of this Court interpreted Order XII Rule 6 of Code of Civil
> Procedure as under:-
> "17. Order 12 Rule 6 of Code gives a very wide discretion to the Court.
> Under this rule the Court may at any stage of the suit either on the
> application of any party or of its own motion and without determination of
> any other question between the parties can make such order giving such
> judgment as it may think fit on the basis of admission of a fact made in the
> pleadings or otherwise whether orally or in writing...."
> 37\. Order VIII Rules 3, 4 and 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure provide that
> the defendant must deal specifically with each allegation of fact of which
> he does not admit the truth and when a defendant denies an allegation of
> fact in the plaint, he must not do so evasively but answer the point of
> substance. Order VIII Rule 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure specially
> provides that if an allegation of fact in the plaint is not denied
> specifically or by necessary implication or stated to be not admitted in the
> pleading of the defendant, then it shall be taken to be admitted by the
> defendant. Order VIII Rules 3, 4 and 5 are reproduced hereunder:-
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 12 of 30
> "ORDER VIII-WRITTEN STATEMENT, SET-OFF AND COUNTER-CLAIM Rule 3. Denial to
> be Specific-
> It shall not be sufficient for a defendant in his written statement to deny
> generally the grounds alleged by the plaintiff, but the defendant must deal
> specifically with each allegation of fact of which he does not admit the
> truth, except damages.
> Rule 4. Evasive Denial-
> Where a defendant denies an allegation of fact in the plaint, he must not do
> so evasively, but answer the point of substance. Thus, if it is alleged that
> he received a certain sum of money, it shall not be sufficient to deny that
> he received that particular amount, but he must deny that he received that
> sum or any part thereof, or else set out how much he received. And if an
> allegation is made with diverse circumstances, it shall not be sufficient to
> deny it along with those circumstances.
> Rule 5. Specific Denial-
> (1) Every allegation of fact in the plaint, if not denied specifically or by
> necessary implication, or stated to be not admitted in the pleading of the
> defendant, shall be taken to be admitted except as against a person under
> disability :
> Provided that the Court may in it discretion require any fact so admitted to
> be proved otherwise than by such admission."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 38\. Civil law does not confer a right on a litigant to remain silent and
> put the onus on the opposite party to prove. On the contrary, the Code of
> Civil Procedure expressly requires pleadings to be specific and also
> provides for deemed admission of what is not specifically not denied. An
> evasive denial of a fact alleged in the plaint would be deemed to be
> admitted under Order VIII Rule 3 and Rule 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 13 of 30
39\. In M/s Gian Chand Brothers v. Rattan Lal, MANU/SC/0015/2013, the Supreme
Court held that it shall not be sufficient for a defendant to deny generally
the averments by the plaintiff, but he must be specific with each allegation
of fact. It was further held that where there is evasive denial, the defendant
cannot be permitted to lead evidence, when nothing is stated in the pleadings.
Reference be also made to Badat & Co. v. East India Trading Co., AIR 1964 SC
538, Sushil Kumar v. Rakesh Kumar, AIR 2004 SC 230 and Jaspal Kaur Cheema v.
Industrial Trade Links, AIR 2017 SC 3995.
40\. In Vijaya Myne v. Satya Bhushan Kaura, 142 (2007) DLT 483, the Division
Bench of this Court held that admissions can even be constructive admissions,
which can be inferred from vague and evasive denial in the written statement
while answering specific pleas in the plaint and further that admissions can
even be inferred from the facts and circumstances of the case.
41\. In Allora Electric & Cable Co. v. M/S. Shiv Charan, 72 (1998) DLT 761,
this Court held that a party is expected to expressly deny the fact which is
within its knowledge and a general denial is not a specific denial by
"necessary implication". In other words, the denial should be definite and
unambiguous. The relevant portion of the judgement is reproduced hereunder:
> "11. The object of this provision is to narrow the issues to be tried in the
> case and to enable either party to know what the real point is to be
> discussed and decided. The word "specifically" qualifies not only the word
> "deny" but also the words "stated to be not admitted" and therefore a
> refusal to admit must also be specifically stated. A defendant can admit or
> deny the several allegations made in the plaint and if he decides to deny
> any such allegations, he must do so clearly and explicitly. A vague or
> evasive reply by the defendant cannot be CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 14 of 30
> considered to be a denial of fact alleged by the plaintiff. A party is
> expected to expressly deny the fact which is within its knowledge and a
> general denial is not a specific denial by "necessary implication". In other
> words, the denial should be definite and unambiguous. The scope of this
> provision has been considered in Badat & Co. v. East India Trading Co. ,
> where His Lordship Subba Rao, J. AIR 1964 SC 538 after referring to Rules 3,
> 4 and 5 of Order 8 of the Code has observed :-
> "These three rules form an integrated code dealing with the manner in which
> allegations of fact in the plaint should be traversed and the legal
> consequences flowing from its non- compliance. The written-statement must
> deal specifically with each allegation of fact in the plaint and when a
> defendant denies any such fact, he must not do so evasively, but answer the
> point of substance. If his denial of fact is not specific but evasive, the
> said fact shall be taken to be admitted. In such an event, the admission
> itself being proof, no other proof is necessary. The first paragraph of R. 5
> is a re-production of O. XIX, R. 13 of the English rules made under the
> Judicature Acts. But in mofussil Courts in India, where pleadings were not
> precisely drawn, it was found in practice that if they were strictly
> construed in terms of the said provisions, grave injustice would be done to
> parties with genuine claims. To do justice between those parties, for which
> Courts are intended, the rigor of R. 5 has been modified by the introduction
> of the proviso thereto. Under that proviso the Court may, in its discretion,
> require any fact so admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admission.
> In the matter of mofussil pleadings, Court, presumably relying upon the said
> proviso, tolerated more laxity in the pleadings in the interest of justice.
> But on the Original side of the Bombay High Court, we are told, the
> pleadings are drafted by trained lawyers bestowing serious thought and with
> precision. In construing such pleadings the proviso can be invoked only in
> exceptional circumstances to prevent obvious injustice to a party or to
> relieve him from the results of an accidental slip or omission, but not to
> help a party who designedly made vague denials and thereafter sought to rely
> upon them for non-suiting the plaintiff. The discretion under the CS (COMM)
> 235/2018 Page 15 of 30 proviso must be exercised by a Court having regard to
> the justice of a cause with particular reference to the nature of the
> parties, the standard of drafting obtaining in a locality, and the
> traditions and conventions of a Court wherein such pleadings are filed."
> (Emphasis supplied) Findings
42\. The defendant denied the contents of paras 1, 3 to 18 and 24 of the
plaint for want of knowledge. In para 26 of the plaint, the plaintiff
specifically pleaded that the defendant adopted the name Suzuki as part of its
corporate name and trading style which is dishonest, malafide and calculated
to deceive and confuse traders and consumers alike. Since the trade mark
Suzuki is a well recognized mark and registered in India since 1972, the trade
mark registrations being matters of public record, the defendant is deemed to
have constructive notice of the plaintiff‟s statutory and exclusive right to
use the trade mark Suzuki. The defendant has chosen not to specifically deny
para 26 of the plaint which is deemed to have been admitted.
43\. In para 27, the plaintiff specifically pleaded that the defendant was
fully aware of the use and goodwill of the mark Suzuki by the plaintiff
because of the extensive use and publicity given thereto by the plaintiff.
Further, defendant has no justification whatsoever for using Suzuki as part of
a corporate name context inasmuch as Suzuki is Japanese surname and it is not
associated with any Indian name, place, object or term. Since the defendant
has no connection with the plaintiff, the use of the trade mark Suzuki by the
defendant causes a misleading impression that the defendant is connected with
the plaintiff or that the defendant has been licensed by the plaintiff to use
the name Suzuki, which is false and untrue. Deception and CS (COMM) 235/2018
Page 16 of 30 confusion is therefore inevitable. The defendant has chosen not
to specifically deny para 27 of the plaint which is also deemed to have been
admitted.
44\. In para 28 of the plaint, the plaintiff specifically pleaded that the
defendant‟s illegal adoption of the Suzuki mark without authorization from the
plaintiff will also lead to undesirable and highly prejudicial consequences
which will whittle down the reputation and goodwill attached to the
plaintiff‟s trademark, which has been painstakingly developed at significant
cost over the years by the plaintiff. The use of the Suzuki name by the
defendant tarnishes the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff and also
dilutes the distinctiveness of plaintiff‟s mark and the exclusivity attached
to it. The action of the defendant has caused and is likely to continue to
cause grave and irreparable damage to the plaintiff. Para 28 of the plaint has
also not been specifically denied by the defendant which is also deemed to
have been admitted.
45\. Paras 26, 27 and 28 of the plaint are reproduced hereunder:
> "26. The Plaintiff submits that the Defendant No.1‟s adoption of the name
> "SUZUKI" as part of its corporate name and trading style is dishonest,
> malafide and calculated to deceive and confuse traders and consumers alike.
> Since the trademark "SUZUKI" is a well recognized mark and has been
> registered in India since 1972, the trademark registrations being matters of
> public record, Defendants Nos.1 - 3 are deemed to have constructive notice
> of the Plaintiff‟s statutory and exclusive right to use the trademark
> "SUZUKI".
> 27\. The Defendants are also deemed to be fully aware of the use and
> goodwill of the mark SUZUKI by the Plaintiff because of the extensive use
> and publicity given thereto by the Plaintiff. Further, Defendant Nos.1 - 3
> have no justification whatsoever for using SUZUKI as part of a corporate
> name context CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 17 of 30 inasmuch (sic) as "SUZUKI" is
> a Japanese surname and it is not associated with any Indian name, place,
> object or term. Since Defendant No.1 has no connection with the Plaintiff,
> the use of the trademark SUZUKI by Defendant No.1, causes a misleading
> impression that Defendant No.1 is connected with the Plaintiff or that the
> Defendant No.1 has been licensed by the Plaintiff to use the name SUZUKI,
> which is false and untrue. Deception and confusion is therefore inevitable.
> The confusion is greater since the Plaintiff also uses SUZUKI as part of its
> corporate name and trading style. The adoption of the SUZUKI name by
> Defendant No.1 is therefore clearly dishonest and malafide with a view to
> encashing upon the widespread and invaluable goodwill, name and reputation
> attached to the Plaintiff‟s name and mark SUZUKI and to pass off and mislead
> the public that its business has some connection with the Plaintiff. This is
> further substantiated by the fact that Defendant Nos.1-3 have continued to
> retain defendant No.1 on paper, solely with the object of preventing the
> Plaintiff from using the same or similar name as part of the corporate name
> of a company in India and/or with the intention of either entering into
> business at a later date or with a view to infringing the Plaintiff‟s
> trademark and corporate name so as to encash on it at a later date by
> selling or offering to sell it to the Plaintiff or any other willing
> purchaser at a premium, thereby generating illegal profits, to the detriment
> of the Plaintiff.
> 28\. Plaintiff submits that the Defendant Nos.1 - 3‟s illegal adoption of
> the SUZUKI mark without authorization from the Plaintiff will also lead to
> undesirable and highly prejudicial consequences which will whittle away the
> reputation and goodwill (sic) attached to the Plaintiff‟s trademark, which
> has been painstakingly developed at significant cost over the years by the
> Plaintiff. The SUZUKI mark/name is a symbol of superior quality goods with a
> high degree of selling power and is no longer confined to any particular
> classification or segment of goods. Whenever consumers come across the mark
> SUZUKI and/or an entity with the word SUZUKI as part of its trade name, they
> automatically take that entity to be associated CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 18
> of 30 with the Plaintiff. Thus, the use of the SUZUKI name by the Defendant
> tarnishes the reputation and goodwill of the Plaintiff and also dilutes the
> distinctiveness of plaintiff‟s mark and the exclusivity attached to it. The
> actions of Defendant Nos.1 - 3 have caused and are likely to continue to
> cause grave and irreparable damage and injury to the Plaintiff. The
> Plaintiff believes that there is a real and tangible risk of Defendant No.1
> commencing business and/or trying to sell its corporate to some other
> willing purchaser for a premium so that it can generate illegal profits."
46\. The defendant reply to paras 26 to 28 of the written statement are
reproduced hereunder:
> "J. That the averments made in para 26 to 29 are flippant, obnoxious and
> misconceived one and thus vehemently denied. It is further submitted by the
> answering defendant that the defendant No.1 company does not carry any
> business which falls within the class 12 of the 4th Schedule of Trade Marks
> rules, 2002 and therefore causing any damage or detrimental to the business
> of the plaintiff company."
47\. In the absence of specific denial, the averments made in the plaint are
deemed to have been admitted as provided under Order VIII Rule 5 of the Code
of Civil Procedure.
48\. This Court is of the view that the vague/evasive denial of the defendant
in his written statement more particularly the reply to paras 26 to 28 of the
plaint are sufficient to pass a decree against the defendant.
49\. The plaintiff is the proprietor of a well known trade mark Suzuki duly
registered with the Registrar of Trade Marks and the defendant dishonestly
adopted the name Suzuki as part of their company with the dishonest intention
to encash the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 19 of 30
50\. The defence set up by the defendant that the defendant was not even aware
about the plaintiff‟s name, trade mark and registration in 1982, when the
defendant adopted the plaintiff‟s trade mark Suzuki is unbelievable and is
rejected. Extensive publicity was made about the fact of the Plaintiff
entering into collaboration with the Government for manufacture of cars in
India. The plaintiff has placed on record copies of following newspapers and
other print media advertisements and articles referring to the Plaintiff and
using the word Suzuki:-
> (i) Article titled „Crazy Car race with Suzuki in Lead‟ published in
> Economist, Bangalore dated 15th June, 1982;
> (ii) Article titled „How Suzuki won‟ published in Business Standard, dated
> 6th June, 1982;
> (iii) Article titled „Subsidiary firm to make Suzuki Car‟ published in
> Business Standard, Calcutta, dated 5th June, 1982;
> (iv) Article published in Autocar, dated 5th June, 1982;
> (v) Article titled „Maruti weds Suzuki‟ published in Probe, India dated
> June, 1982;
> (vi) Article titled „Why Suzuki‟ published in Automotive Engineering and
> Trader, dated June, 1982;
> (vii) Article titled „The people‟s car from Japan‟ published in Financial
> Times, dated 26th May, 1982;
> (viii) Article titled „Buoyant domestic sales boost Suzuki Motor‟ published
> in Financial Times, dated 18th May, 1982;
> (ix) Article titled „Step Aside for Suzuki‟ published in India Today, dated
> 30th April, 1982;
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 20 of 30
> (x) Article titled „India puts Japan behind the wheel‟ published in The
> Economist, dated 24th April, 1982;
> (xi) Article titled „The Maruti-Suzuki Deal‟ published in The Hindu, New
> Delhi;
> (xii) Article titled „Sanjay‟s dream car‟ published in Financial Express,
> dated 16th April, 1982;
> (xiii) Article titled „Japanese firm to help Maruti make small cars‟
> published in The Statesman, dated 15h April, 1982;
> (xiv) Article titled „Maruti pact with Suzuki‟ published in Patriot, New
> Delhi, dated 15th April, 1982.
51\. The adoption of the plaintiff‟s trade mark Suzuki by the defendant in
1982 is not honest because the plaintiff‟s trade mark was well-known in 1982\.
The plaintiff has placed sufficient material on record to show that the
plaintiff was a well-known mark in India as back as in 1982 when the defendant
adopted the same.
52\. The defendant is deemed to have notice of plaintiff‟s statutory and
exclusive right to use the trade mark Suzuki. Since the trade mark Suzuki is a
well recognized mark and registered in India since 1972, the trade mark
registrations being matters of public record, the defendant is deemed to have
constructive notice of the plaintiff‟s statutory and exclusive right to use
the trade mark Suzuki.
53\. The defendant adopted the name Suzuki with the dishonest and malafide
intention of encashing upon the widespread goodwill, name and reputation
attached to the plaintiff‟s name and mark Suzuki and to pass off and mislead
the public that the business of the defendant had some connection with the
plaintiff. The Managing Director of the defendant CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 21
of 30 admitted on oath on 03rd December, 2018 that "If a consumer deals with
the defendant company, he may wrongly think that he is dealing with the
Japanese company".
54\. There is no justification on part of the defendant to use trade mark
Suzuki as part of the corporate name inasmuch as Suzuki is a Japanese surname
and it is not associated with any Indian name, place, object or term.
55\. The defendant‟s submission that they adopted the name Suzuki because they
had friend name Suzuki is not pleaded in the written statement. That apart,
there is no merit in this submission and is rejected. Reference be made to
Rajesh Engineering Corporation (supra) and the Timken Company (supra) in which
the Court rejected such pleas.
56\. The defendant‟s explanation for adopting the word Suzuki appears to be
farfetched and unacceptable on the face of it. It appears that the defendant
has chosen the word Suzuki only to trade on the plaintiff's reputation and
goodwill.
57\. The defendant‟s explanation for adopting the trade mark Suzuki appears to
be an after-thought. It is natural for the parties who have copied trade mark
to try and explain its conduct and to look out for means to explain derivation
of words so adopted. If the trade mark having element of prior continuance and
use, has been copied, no amount of explanation, even if it is plausible, is
capable of defending infringement of trade mark of such prior user.
58\. The use of the trade mark Suzuki by the defendant is not bona fide and is
a coulourable imitation of the plaintiff‟s trade mark. Since the adoption of
the mark Suzuki was dishonest, the alleged use of the same from 1982 onwards
will be of no consequence.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 22 of 30
59\. The plaintiff has been using the mark Suzuki in its companies/business
concerns for a long span of time extending over a century. The name has
acquired distinctiveness and a secondary meaning in the business or trade
circles. Any attempt by another person to use the name in business and trade
circles is likely to create an impression of a connection with the plaintiff.
60\. Since the defendant has no connection with the plaintiff, the use of the
trade mark Suzuki by the defendant, would cause a misleading impression that
the defendant is connected with the plaintiff or that the defendant has been
licensed by the plaintiff to use the name Suzuki, which is false and untrue.
Deception and confusion is, therefore, inevitable.
61\. The defendant‟s illegal adoption of the mark Suzuki without authorization
from the plaintiff will also lead to undesirable and highly prejudicial
consequences which will whittle down the reputation and goodwill attached to
the plaintiff‟s trademark. The use of the Suzuki name by the defendant would
tarnish the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff and would also dilute the
distinctiveness of plaintiff‟s mark and the exclusivity attached to it.
62\. A fair and honest trader will not give a misleading name to its product
to the continuing detriment of the plaintiff who has built up their goodwill
in the business after years of hard work. It is this intangible right to
property which the law seeks to protect.
63\. The defendant, a fraudulent infringer who has knowingly and deliberately
violated the rights of the plaintiff, cannot complain and hide behind the
defence of delay, laches or acquiescence as the infringement at the very
initial stage itself was fraudulent. The delay and laches by itself would not
bestow fraud with character of legality. Reference be made to the CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 23 of 30 Timken Company (supra), Hindustan Pencils Private
Limited v. India Stationery Products Co., AIR 1990 Del 19, Kirloskar Diesel
Recon Pvt. Ltd. v. Kirloskar Proprietary Limited, AIR 1996 Bom. 149; Revlon
Inc. v. Sarita Manufacturing Co., 1997 (17) PTC 394; Aktiebolaget Volvo of
Sweden v. Volvo Steels Ltd. of Gujarat (India), 1998 (18) PTC 156; Ansul
Tobacco Industries v. Shiva Tobacco Company, 2007 (34) PTC 392; and Hamdard
National Foundation v. Abdul Jalil, 2008 (38) PTC 109.
64\. Inordinate delay would not defeat an action for the grant of a temporary
injunction especially where the use by the defendant of the mark was
fraudulent. The defendant must have known that it was adopting a mark which
belongs to someone else. Any infringer who uses or adopts someone else's mark
must be aware of the consequences which may follow. The defendant ran the risk
in using a mark which belonged to someone else. It continued its business
uninterruptedly for a number of years before any action was taken by the
plaintiff against it. If the defendant continued to do business by using the
impugned mark, it did so at its own peril. The continued user cannot be set up
as a defence under these circumstances.
65\. Once there is a dishonest intention to adopt the mark, a mere delay in
bringing action cannot be defeated because in case of continuing tort, fresh
period of limitation begins to run every moment of time during which the
breach continues.
66\. Mere concurrent user is not sufficient in law. It must be honest. Since
the adoption of the trade mark was itself dishonest, delay in bringing action
is not sufficient to defeat grant of injunction.
67\. Once the Court comes to the conclusion that it is a fit case of
infringement of trade mark by the defendant then the delay is immaterial on CS
(COMM) 235/2018 Page 24 of 30 account of statutory rights granted under
Section 28 of the Trade Marks Act in favour of the plaintiff.
68\. A trade mark, which has acquired a wide reputation transcending
international barriers even though in respect of a specified class or category
of goods, cannot be allowed to be violated by another person in respect of a
different category of goods because that other person will be deliberately
using the trade mark of the former with an intent to get some undue advantage
because of its reputation and goodwill. With the changed concept of passing
off action, it is now not material for a passing off action that the plaintiff
and the defendant should trade in the same field.
69\. The defendant has no defence and has no real prospects of defending the
claim.
70\. The Trade Mark law is not intended to protect a person who deliberately
sets out to take the benefit of somebody else's reputation with reference to
goods, especially so when the reputation extends worldwide. The plaintiff has
placed on record material to show that Suzuki has acquired very large
reputation and goodwill throughout the world including presence in India.
71\. The defendant is a dishonest litigant who has raised frivolous defence
with the dishonest intention to blackmail the plaintiff. The order dated 16th
May, 2017 records that the defendant demanded Rs.10 crores from the plaintiff
to change their name.
72\. The defendant raised a false plea of territorial jurisdiction in the
written statement on the ground that they have no office in Delhi. This Court
examined the Managing Director on an oath on 03rd December, 2018 CS (COMM)
235/2018 Page 25 of 30 when he admitted that the defendant has office in
Delhi. In that view of the matter, there is no merit in the objection of
territorial jurisdiction.
73\. Since the admissions of the defendant are sufficient to pass a decree,
this Court does not consider it necessary to consider any other objection of
the defendant as Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure specifically
empowers this Court to pass a decree if the admissions are sufficient "without
waiting for the determination of any other question between the parties".
74\. Before closing, this Court would like to record that on 13th May, 2019,
the case was passed over thrice on the request of the defendant‟s counsel. The
case was again lastly taken up at 4:25 P.M. when again a request for pass over
was made which was declined as it appeared that the request for pass over was
not genuine. This Court, therefore, heard both the parties and reserved the
judgment. On 30th May, 2019, the defendant filed I.A. No.8507/2019 in which
incorrect averments have been raised by the defendant.
Conclusion
75\. The plaintiff‟s suit is decreed in respect of prayers (a) and (b) against
the defendant.
76\. The defendant has raised the false claim before this Court that it has no
office in Delhi whereas the Managing Director of the defendant admitted on
oath before this Court on 03rd December, 2018 that the defendant has office in
Delhi. The defendant has also raised a false claim that the defendant was not
aware of the plaintiff‟s name, trade mark and registration in 1982, when the
defendant adopted the mark Suzuki. The defendant has also raised false pleas
in I.A. 8507/2019 mentioned in para 74 above.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 26 of 30
77\. Raising a false claim before the Court is an offence under Section 209 of
the Indian Penal Code punishable with punishment of imprisonment upto two
years and fine. Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code is reproduced hereunder:
> "Section 209 - Dishonestly making false claim in Court -- Whoever
> fraudulently or dishonestly, or with intent to injure or annoy any person,
> makes in a Court of Justice any claim which he knows to be false, shall be
> punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
> to two years, and shall also be liable to fine."
78\. In H.S. Bedi v. National Highway Authority of India, 2016 (155) DRJ 259,
this Court discussed the scope of the Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code.
Relevant portion of the said judgment is reproduced hereunder:-
> "15.1 Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code makes dishonestly making a false
> claim in a Court as an offence punishable with imprisonment upto two years
> and fine.
> 15.2 The essential ingredients of an offence under Section 209 are: (i)The
> accused made a claim; (ii)The claim was made in a Court of Justice; (iii)
> The claim was false, either wholly or in part; (iv)That the accused knew
> that the claim was false; and
> (v)The claim was made fraudulently, dishonestly, or with intent to injure or
> to annoy any person.
> 15.3 A litigant makes a „claim‟ before a Court of Justice for the purpose of
> Section 209 when he seeks certain relief or remedies from the Court and a
> „claim‟ for relief necessarily impasses the ground for obtaining that
> relief. The offence is complete the moment a false claim is filed in Court.
> 15.4 The word „claim‟ in Section 209 of the IPC cannot be read as being
> confined to the prayer clause. It means the „claim‟ to the existence or non-
> existence of a fact or a set of facts on which a party to a case seeks an
> outcome from the Court based on the substantive law and its application to
> facts as established. To clarify, the word "claim" would mean both CS (COMM)
> 235/2018 Page 27 of 30 not only a claim in the affirmative to the existence
> of fact(s) as, to illustrate, may be made in a plaint, writ petition, or an
> application; but equally also by denying an averred fact while responding
> (to the plaint/petition, etc.) in a written statement, counter affidavit, a
> reply, etc. Doing so is making a "claim" to the non-existence of the averred
> fact. A false "denial", except when the person responding is not aware,
> would constitute making a "claim" in Court under Section 209 IPC. 15.5 The
> word „claim‟ for the purposes of Section 209 of the Penal Code would also
> include the defence adopted by a defendant in the suit. The reason for
> criminalising false claims and defences is that the plaintiff as well as the
> defendant can abuse the process of law by deliberate falsehoods, thereby
> perverting the course of justice and undermining the authority of the law.
> 15.6 Whether the litigant‟s „claim‟ is false, is not considered merely from
> whatever he pleads (or omits to plead): that would be to elevate form over
> substance. To make out the offence, the Court does not merely inspect how a
> litigant‟s pleadings have been drafted or the case has been presented. The
> real issue to be considered is whether, all said and done, the litigant„s
> action has a proper foundation which entitles him to seek judicial relief.
> 15.7 Section 209 was enacted to preserve the sanctity of the Court of
> Justice and to safeguard the due administration of law by deterring the
> deliberate making of false claims. Section 209 was intended to deter the
> abuse of Court process by all litigants who make false claims fraudulently,
> dishonestly, or with intent to injure or annoy.
> 15.8 False claims delay justice and compromise the sanctity of a Court of
> justice as an incorruptible administrator of truth and a bastion of
> rectitude.
> 15.9 Filing of false claims in Courts aims at striking a blow at the rule of
> law and no Court can ignore such conduct which has the tendency to shake
> public confidence in the judicial institutions because the very structure of
> an ordered life is put at stake. It would be a great public disaster if the
> fountain of CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 28 of 30 justice is allowed to be
> poisoned by anyone resorting to filing of false claims.
> 15.10 The Courts of law are meant for imparting justice between the parties.
> One who comes to the Court, must come with clean hands. More often than not,
> process of the Court is being abused. Property-grabbers, tax-evaders, bank-
> loan- dodgers and other unscrupulous persons from all walks of life find the
> Court-process a convenient lever to retain the illegal gains indefinitely. A
> person, who's case is based on falsehood, has no right to approach the
> Court. He can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
> 15.11 The disastrous result of leniency or indulgence in invoking Section
> 209 is that it sends out wrong signals. It creates almost a licence for
> litigants and their lawyers to indulge in such serious malpractices because
> of the confidence that no action will result.
> 15.12 Unless lawlessness which is all pervasive in the society is not put an
> end with an iron hand, the very existence of a civilized society is at peril
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
file the unconditional apology.
80\. Pending application is disposed of.
J.R. MIDHA, J.
JULY 17, 2019 dk/ak CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 30 of 30
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
name.
3\. Defendant No.3 was deleted from the array of the parties on 07th March,
2007. Defendant No.2 ceased to be the Director of defendant No.1 on 03rd May,
1984 and is, therefore, not a necessary party. Defendant No.2 is also deleted
from the array of the parties. The sole defendant No.1 is hereinafter referred
to as "the defendant" in this judgment.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 1 of 30
4\. The plaintiff is seeking a decree under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure against the defendant 1 on the ground that the defendant has
not raised any defence in the written statement except the challenge to the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the defendant has no
office in Delhi. However, on 03rd December, 2018, the Managing Director of the
defendant admitted on oath before this Court that the defendant has its office
in Delhi. In that view of the matter, the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court is also admitted.
Submissions of the plaintiff
5\. The plaintiff started its business in Japan in the year 1909 as Suzuki
Loom Works and was incorporated as a company in the year 1920 with the name
Suzuki as the principal feature of its corporate name and trading style. The
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
name.
3\. Defendant No.3 was deleted from the array of the parties on 07th March,
2007. Defendant No.2 ceased to be the Director of defendant No.1 on 03rd May,
1984 and is, therefore, not a necessary party. Defendant No.2 is also deleted
from the array of the parties. The sole defendant No.1 is hereinafter referred
to as "the defendant" in this judgment.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 1 of 30
4\. The plaintiff is seeking a decree under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure against the defendant 1 on the ground that the defendant has
not raised any defence in the written statement except the challenge to the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the defendant has no
office in Delhi. However, on 03rd December, 2018, the Managing Director of the
defendant admitted on oath before this Court that the defendant has its office
in Delhi. In that view of the matter, the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court is also admitted.
Submissions of the plaintiff
5\. The plaintiff started its business in Japan in the year 1909 as Suzuki
Loom Works and was incorporated as a company in the year 1920 with the name
Suzuki as the principal feature of its corporate name and trading style. The
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
name.
3\. Defendant No.3 was deleted from the array of the parties on 07th March,
2007. Defendant No.2 ceased to be the Director of defendant No.1 on 03rd May,
1984 and is, therefore, not a necessary party. Defendant No.2 is also deleted
from the array of the parties. The sole defendant No.1 is hereinafter referred
to as "the defendant" in this judgment.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 1 of 30
4\. The plaintiff is seeking a decree under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure against the defendant 1 on the ground that the defendant has
not raised any defence in the written statement except the challenge to the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the defendant has no
office in Delhi. However, on 03rd December, 2018, the Managing Director of the
defendant admitted on oath before this Court that the defendant has its office
in Delhi. In that view of the matter, the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court is also admitted.
Submissions of the plaintiff
5\. The plaintiff started its business in Japan in the year 1909 as Suzuki
Loom Works and was incorporated as a company in the year 1920 with the name
Suzuki as the principal feature of its corporate name and trading style. The
name of the plaintiff was changed to Suzuki Motor Co. Limited in the year 1954
and its current name, namely, Suzuki Motor Corporation, was adopted in 1990.
6\. The plaintiff has business relations in about 190 countries around the
world including countries in Asia, North America, South America and Europe.
The plaintiff‟s main production facilities are located in 23 countries and
about 150 subsidiaries exist around the world. The plaintiff is a diversified
company with a global business, tremendous goodwill, reputation and brand
recall.
7\. The plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the trade mark Suzuki in
about 169 countries worldwide (with multiple registrations in most of the
countries), including India. In addition, the plaintiff owns about 5000 other
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
defendants from using the word Suzuki as part of their trade name/corporate
name.
3\. Defendant No.3 was deleted from the array of the parties on 07th March,
2007. Defendant No.2 ceased to be the Director of defendant No.1 on 03rd May,
1984 and is, therefore, not a necessary party. Defendant No.2 is also deleted
from the array of the parties. The sole defendant No.1 is hereinafter referred
to as "the defendant" in this judgment.
CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 1 of 30
4\. The plaintiff is seeking a decree under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure against the defendant 1 on the ground that the defendant has
not raised any defence in the written statement except the challenge to the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the defendant has no
office in Delhi. However, on 03rd December, 2018, the Managing Director of the
defendant admitted on oath before this Court that the defendant has its office
in Delhi. In that view of the matter, the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court is also admitted.
Submissions of the plaintiff
5\. The plaintiff started its business in Japan in the year 1909 as Suzuki
Loom Works and was incorporated as a company in the year 1920 with the name
Suzuki as the principal feature of its corporate name and trading style. The
name of the plaintiff was changed to Suzuki Motor Co. Limited in the year 1954
and its current name, namely, Suzuki Motor Corporation, was adopted in 1990.
6\. The plaintiff has business relations in about 190 countries around the
world including countries in Asia, North America, South America and Europe.
The plaintiff‟s main production facilities are located in 23 countries and
about 150 subsidiaries exist around the world. The plaintiff is a diversified
company with a global business, tremendous goodwill, reputation and brand
recall.
7\. The plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the trade mark Suzuki in
about 169 countries worldwide (with multiple registrations in most of the
countries), including India. In addition, the plaintiff owns about 5000 other
> if the people of this nature are not shown their place. Further if the
> litigants making false claims are allowed to go scot free, every law breaker
> would violate the law with immunity. Hence, deterrent action is required to
> uphold the majesty of law. The Court would be failing in its duties, if
> false claims are not dealt with in a manner proper and effective for
> maintenance of majesty of Courts as otherwise the Courts would lose its
> efficacy to the litigant public."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 79\. This Court is of the prima facie view that this case warrants
> prosecution under Section 209 of Indian Penal Code for raising false claims.
However, in the interest of justice, three weeks time is granted to the
defendant to introspect and file an unconditional apology failing which the
defendant shall be liable to pay actual cost incurred by the plaintiff on this
litigation. The plaintiff shall file the actual cost incurred on an affidavit
and CS (COMM) 235/2018 Page 29 of 30 the Registry shall draw the decree with
actual cost incurred by the plaintiff, in event of failure of the defendant to
