Bombay High Court
Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited vs Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited on 27 August,
2014
Bench: S.J. Kathawalla
        KPPNair                                    1                                   NMSL 141/2014
                             IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                                ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION   
                                NOTICE OF MOTION (L) NO. 141 OF 2014
                                                 IN
                                        SUIT NO. 42 OF 2014
        Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited                                                ....Applicant
        In the matter between:
        Ultratech Cement Limited & Anr.ig                                             ... Plaintiffs
                       Vs.
        Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited                                                  ...Defendant
          Dr.   Virendra   V.   Tulzapurkar,   Senior   Advocate,   along   with   Mr.   Amit 
        Jamsandekar, instructed by M/s. V.A. Associates, for the Plaintiffs. 
        Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate along with Mr. V.R. Dhond, Senior Advocate, 
        and Ms. Bijal Trivedi, instructed by M/s. Bhagwati & Co., for the Defendant. 
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                Judgment reserved on : 1st July, 2014
                                          Judgment pronounced on : 27th August, 2014
        JUDGMENT:
1\. The Defendant has filed the present Notice of Motion asserting that the
Plaint is liable to be rejected as "barred by law'' under Order VII Rule 11
(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (''Code'').
2\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is for
infringement and passing off. Leave under Clause XIV of the Letters Patent has
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 2 NMSL 141/2014 not been
granted till date. Hence, in law, there is presently no action for passing
off. The action before this Court is for infringement alone. It is submitted
that jurisdiction for the action for infringement has not been invoked with
reference to the 'cause of action'. In fact, it is an admitted position that
no part of the cause of action (infringement or passing off) has arisen within
the jurisdiction of this Court. The Plaintiffs have sought to sustain
jurisdiction, in so far as the plea of infringement is concerned, solely by
relying upon Section 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 ("the Act"). If this
requirement is not met, the action must forthwith fail.
3\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that admittedly it is
the Plaintiff No. 2 who is the owner of the marks which are allegedly
infringed by the Defendant and that the Plaintiff No.1 is a licensee/licensed
user of the marks. Relying on Sections 28, 52 and 53 of the Act, it is
submitted that the said Sections make it absolutely clear that only a
registered proprietor or a registered user can institute/maintain an action
for infringement. It is submitted that Section 53 of the Act in fact prohibits
a permitted user (example Licensee) from instituting a suit for infringement.
It is submitted that therefore the expression ''person instituting the suit''
means and must mean "a person, who under the Act, is entitled to institute a
suit". The person instituting the suit must either be a registered proprietor
or a registered user. It cannot include a permitted user (licensee). The
Plaintiff No.1 therefore cannot be joined in this Suit. The joinder of
Plaintiff No.1 is barred/prohibited in law.
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
KPPNair 3 NMSL 141/2014 The present Suit could therefore have been maintained
by Plaintiff No.2 alone.
There was no legal necessity to join Plaintiff No.1. The Plaint therefore is
an attempt to artificially provide jurisdiction by joining Plaintiff No. 1 to
the action. The endeavor clearly appears to be an attempt to form what can be
described as a "jurisdictional joint venture".
4\. It is next submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the only question
therefore which falls/remains for consideration is whether this Suit, by
Plaintiff No.2, satisfies the test of Section 134 (2) of the Act, when no part
of the cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court. It is
submitted that the Defendant sells its products only in the State of
Karnataka.
Assuming that Plaintiff No.2's allegations (on merits) are correct, the cause
of action for infringement arises in Karnataka. Significantly both the
Plaintiffs and in particular Plaintiff No.2 have a subordinate office within
the jurisdiction of the Courts in Karnataka. Hence, in Karnataka not only has
the cause of action (allegedly) arisen but both the second Plaintiff and the
Defendant have a physical presence (situs) in the said State. However, the
Plaintiffs purely by reason of the artful pleading in paragraph 44 of the
Plaint that, "The 1st Plaintiff has its Registered Office in Mumbai and
Plaintiff No.2 has its Corporate Office in Mumbai from where the Plaintiffs
are carrying on business in Mumbai'', have wrongly contended that the Suit as
framed, attracts Section 134 of the Act. Relying on Section 20 of the Code, it
is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that assuming that paragraph 44 can be
read as stating that  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 4
NMSL 141/2014 Plaintiff No.2 carries on business from its Corporate Office and
thus within the jurisdiction of this Court, this still does not attract
Section 134 of the Act. It is submitted that the scope of the words ''carry on
business'' in explanation to Section 20 of the Code in relation to
Corporations having multiple offices fell for consideration before the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in the case of M/s. Patel Roadways vs. M/s. Prasad
Trading Company1. In that case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court interpreted the
words ''carry on business'' (in relation to Corporations having multiple
offices at different locations) to mean either the registered office or such
subordinate office where the cause of action arises. It is submitted that this
judgment is an authority for the proposition (ratio) that (for the purposes of
invoking the jurisdiction of Courts) a Corporation having multiple offices
''carries on business'' only at (i) its registered office; or (ii) such
subordinate office (s) where the cause of action arises and at no other place.
5\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the Legislature intended
to give the expression ''carries on business'' in Section 134 of the Act, the
same meaning attributed to them in Section 20 of the Code. It is submitted
that similarly, in so far as the expression ''carries on business'' is
concerned, there is no radical departure in the scheme of Clause XII of the
Letters Patent from Section 20 of the Code. In support of its contentions, the
Defendant has relied on the decisions in the case of Indian Performing Rights
Society vs. 1 1991 (4) SCC 270  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
KPPNair 5 NMSL 141/2014 Sanjay Dalia and another2; World Wide Wrestling
Entertainment vs. M/s.
Reshma Collections and others3; Archie Comic Publications Inc vs. Purple
Creations Pvt. Ltd.4 . It is submitted that assuming that the order dated 27
th January, 2009 in SLP No. 980 and 981/2009, filed before the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the matter of Indian Performing Rights Society (supra) amounts to a
stay of the said judgment, it does not mean that the Supreme Court has set
aside the same. This Court is therefore entitled to take the same view. It is
submitted that paragraphs 7, 8 and 11 of the said decision be treated as
submissions advanced by the Defendant before this Court.
6\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the construction
put forth by the Plaintiffs will turn Section 134 of the Act into an
instrument of oppression and/or abuse. Any registered proprietor will become
entitled to pick and choose a Court of its choice anywhere across the length
and breadth of this Country by the simple expedient of either joining to the
action, a co-
Plaintiff who has a presence within the jurisdiction of the chosen Court or at
a place where the registered proprietor has a subordinate office (though the
Defendant is not selling his goods and/or no part of the cause of action has
arisen). It is submitted that the words ''a person instituting the suit" must
therefore be given an informed construction and/or meaning. They cannot be
made an instrument of oppression in the hands of the Corporations with 2 2009
(39) PTC 1 3 CS (OS) 1801/2014 and I.A. Nos. 14958-59/2013 4 (2009) 39 PTC 1
(Del) DB  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 6 NMSL 141/2014
multiple subordinate offices. Referring to the statement of objects and
reasons of the Copyright Act, 1957, regarding Section 62 (2) of the Copyrights
Act, it is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that clearly these provisions
were inserted with a view to protect authors unable to file actions in far
away places where the cause accrued and not for corporations or persons with
considerable resources to drag defendants to far off forums. The ameliorative
provisions of Section 134 of the Act cannot be misused to drag the defendants
to a forum that is completely alien to the actual place where the cause of
action, if any, has accrued. The Defendant has further submitted that each of
the judgments cited by the Plaintiffs are either ex facie inapplicable or
distinguishable or do not, when properly read and understood, support the case
of the Plaintiffs.
Some of the cases relied upon by the Plaintiff in fact support the case of the
Defendant.
7\. The Defendant has submitted that from their submissions the clear position
that emerges is as under:
(i) Firstly, Plaintiff No.1 cannot be a Plaintiff in an infringement suit.
The joinder of Plaintiff No.1 is not only not necessary to found/maintain an
infringement action, but is expressly barred under Section 53 of the Act;
(ii) Secondly, independently thereof, the Suit as framed is barred under
Section 134 of the Act. Plaintiff No.2 does not answer the description of
''carries on business'' within jurisdiction;
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
         KPPNair                                          7                                   NMSL 141/2014
        (iii)          Thirdly, were the two Plaintiffs to independently institute individual 
                     suits,   these   suits   would   be   barred   by   law,   for   the     submissions 
                     advanced on behalf of the Defendant;
        (iv)             Fourthly, the bar cannot be unlawfully evaded by the expedient of 
artfully joining to one suit two Plaintiffs (each of whom cannot maintain an
independent action); and
(v) Fifthly, the Plaintiffs are not remediless. They can, if they so desire,
sue the Defendant in Courts where the cause of action has arisen and where
they (the Plaintiffs) have a presence (situs).
It is therefore submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is
liable to be dismissed as 'barred by law' under Order VII Rule 11 (d) of the
Code. It is therefore submitted that the Notice of Motion be made absolute
with costs.
8\. The Learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Plaintiffs has submitted
that in an application taken out under Order VII Rule 11, the Court has to
proceed only on the basis that the averments made in the Plaint are true and
correct. The Court cannot look into the defence of the Defendant. It is
submitted that therefore in the present case, the Defendant is not entitled to
resort to the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 (d) of the Code on a specious
plea that the entire Plaint is liable to be rejected because Plaintiff No.1 as
a licensee is not entitled to file a suit for infringement. Relying on the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sopan Sukhdeo Sable and others vs.
Assistant Charity  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 8 NMSL
141/2014 Commissioner and others5 it is submitted that whilst considering an
application under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code the averments in the Plaint
are germane, and the pleas taken by the Defendant in the Written Statement
would be wholly irrelevant at that stage. It is submitted that the use of the
marks by the first Plaintiff is for and on behalf of the second Plaintiff and
the goodwill and reputation of the marks by such use is owned by the second
Plaintiff. Any use made by Plaintiff No. 1 enures to the benefit of Plaintiff
No.2. In any case the Plaint cannot be rejected because the Suit for
infringement is maintainable, inasmuch as the Plaintiff No. 2 is the
registered proprietor and is entitled to file a suit for the relief for
infringement. In any case the first Plaintiff is a proper and necessary party
for the causes of action in the present Suit.
Relying on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Exphar SA
& Anr. Vs. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. 6, it is submitted that the question
that is required to be considered under Section 134 of the Act is whether any
of the Plaintiffs, who is one of the parties having instituted the Suit,
carries on business within the jurisdiction of this Court. The question
whether one of such persons is not entitled to the reliefs claimed in the Suit
is irrelevant in view of the categorical statement of law laid down in the
said case namely that a party may not be entitled to the relief claimed in the
Suit, but that is no reason for holding that it was not a person who had
instituted the Suit within the meaning of Section 62 (2) of the Act. The
Plaintiff No.1 deals as a licensee 5 (2004) 3 SCC 137 (Paragraph 10) 6 (2004)
3 SCC 688  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 9 NMSL 141/2014
only in respect of goods manufactured by Plaintiff No.2 and none other. In
view thereof the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dhodha
House vs. S.K. Maingi7 has no application to the facts of this case. It is
further submitted that reference to the provisions of the Act requiring only a
registered proprietor or a registered user being entitled to file a suit for
infringement is irrelevant. It is submitted that the contentions raised by the
Defendant that under sub-Section (2) of Section 134 of the Act, the word
'person' includes the registered proprietor or the registered user only, is
irrelevant. The word used in the explanation is ''includes'' and therefore the
definition is inclusive. The Legislature has purposely not restricted the
meaning of the word ''person'' only to registered proprietor and the
registered user, otherwise the Legislature would have used the word ''means''.
It is therefore submitted that the allegation of the Defendant that the
Plaintiff is attempting to form a ''jurisdictional joint venture'' is totally
unsustainable.
9\. It is next submitted on behalf of the Plaintiffs that the Defendant's
argument that this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain the Suit for
infringement on the ground that no cause of action has arisen within the
jurisdiction of this Court is also inapplicable. It is submitted that the
submission of the Defendant that the explanation to Section 20 of the Code is
required to be read into Section 134 of the Act is totally untenable, firstly
on interpretation of Section 134 of the Act and secondly on the decisions of
this 7 (2006) 9 SCC 41  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 10
NMSL 141/2014 Court. In view of the clear provisions of Section 134 of the
Act, there is no question of interpreting the provisions of / considerations
under Section 20 of the Code or even Clause XII of the Letters Patent while
considering jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act. Section 134
creates/confers jurisdiction in addition to and independent of Section 20 of
the Code and Clause XII of the Letters Patent. Therefore even if the
requirement of Clause XII of the Letters Patent are not satisfied, or in a
given case Section 20 of the Code is not satisfied, Section 134 (2) of the Act
will still confer jurisdiction in its own turn.
If the Plaintiff resides and/or carries on business within the jurisdiction of
this Court, there is no further requirement in the said Section. The
provisions of Section 20 of the Code are not applicable to this Court. Even if
the said provisions were applicable, there is no question of the issue being
decided by making reference to Section 20 of the Code, since there is no
ambiguity in Section 134 of the Act. Relying on the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of State of Kerala vs. Mathai Verghese8, it is
submitted that it is impermissible to read any additional requirement in
Section 134 of the Act.
10\. It is submitted on behalf of the Plaintiffs that if the interpretation
placed by the Defendant is accepted viz. to read the requirement of
explanation (ii) to Section 20 of the Code into Section 134 of the Act, such
interpretation will result in a hostile discrimination. The Defendant's
interpretation will make a distinction between an individual carrying on 8 AIR
1987 SC 33  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 11 NMSL
141/2014 business and a Corporation carrying on business, because in the case
of a Corporation, according to Defendant's interpretation, the Corporation as
plaintiff will be required to file a suit only at a place where the cause of
action has arisen. This will be discriminatory, unreasonable, and arbitrary as
two similarly situated Plaintiffs are being treated differently.
11\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Plaintiff that the submission of
the Defendant viz. to read the requirement of Section 20 of the Code into
Section 134 of the Act, also goes contrary to the clear intention of the
Legislature. If the Legislature wanted to put any limitation in case of a
Corporation, which wanted to file a suit as in Section 20 of the Code, then
Section 134 of the Act would have been worded accordingly whilst repealing the
Trade & Merchandise Act, 1958 by the Trade Marks Act, 1999. It is submitted
that therefore the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Patel Roadways vs.
Prasad Trading Co.9 will not assist the Defendant's contention raised herein
since the observations made in that case are required to be confined to a case
under Section 20 of the Code which is not applicable to this Court. It is
therefore submitted on behalf of the Plaintiffs that the Defendant's
interpretation of Section 134 of the Act that the cause of action must arise
at the corporate office of the Plaintiffs is liable to be rejected.
12\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Plaintiffs that the law on this
aspect has been settled by two decisions of the Division Bench of this Court
in 9 (1991) 4 SCC 270  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 12
NMSL 141/2014 M/s. Arte Indiana vs. M/s. P. Mittulaul Lalah & Sons 10 and
Pratap Singh vs. The Bank of America11 . It is submitted that the decisions of
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court relied upon by the Defendant are contrary to the
said binding decisions of this Court. It is further submitted that the Madras
High Court in the case of Wipro Limited vs. Oushadha Chandrika Ayurvedic India
(P) Ltd. and others 12 has clearly held that by virtue of Section 120 of the
Code, the provisions of Section 20 of the Code are not applicable as far as
the Chartered High Court is concerned and the scope of Section 134 of the Act
cannot be curtailed by reference to Section 20 of the Code or Clause XII of
the Letters Patent. The Plaintiffs have also relied upon the decision of this
Court in Petition No. 369 of 2013 in Suit No. 37 of 2014 - UltraTech Cement
Ltd. vs. Shree Balaji Cement Industries in its judgment dated 18th January,
2014, wherein this Court has held that there is no requirement in Clause XIV
of the Letters Patent that the cause of action must have arisen within the
jurisdiction of this Court.
13\. In conclusion, it is submitted on behalf of the Plaintiffs as follows:
(i) Once the Court has jurisdiction to try a suit for one of the causes of
action, Clause XIV of the Letters Patent allows the joinder of another cause
of action in that suit;
(ii) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act, only
the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and 10 AIR 1999
Bom. 369 11 78 BLR 549 12 2008 (37) PTC 269 (Mad.) (DB)  ::: Downloaded on -
02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 13 NMSL 141/2014 it is not necessary that the
cause of action should also have arisen at that place.
(iii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
(iv) Cause of action or the place where it arose, it is not relevant under
Section 134 (2) to determine the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134
(2) of the Act.
(v) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action for
infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this Court,
this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this Court.
14\. I have considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the Plaintiffs as
well as the Defendant. I have also considered the decisions relied upon by the
Learned Advocates for the parties.
15\. Section 134 of the Act is reproduced hereunder:
> "134. Suit for infringement, etc. to be instituted before District Court.
(1) No suit -
(a) for the infringement of a registered trade mark; or
(b) relating to any right in a registered trade mark; or  ::: Downloaded on -
02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 14 NMSL 141/2014
(c) for passing off arising out of the use by the Defendant of any trade mark
which is identical with or deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's trade mark,
whether registered or unregistered, shall be instituted in any court inferior
to a District Court having jurisdiction to try the suit.
(2) For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) a ''District
court having jurisdiction'' shall notwithstanding anything contained in the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or any other law for the time being
in force, include a district Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction, at the time of the institution of the suit or other proceedings,
the person instituting the suit or proceeding or where there are more than one
such persons any of them, actually and voluntarily resides or carries or
personally works for gain on business.
Explanation - For the purposes of sub-section (2) ''person'' includes the
registered proprietor and the registered user.
16\. The first submission raised by the Defendant in the present Notice of
Motion is that the expression, ''person instituting the suit'' used in Section
134 (2) of the Act means a person who, under the Act, is entitled to institute
a suit.
Sections 28, 52 and 53 of the Act make it absolutely clear that only a
registered proprietor or a registered user can institute/maintain an action
for infringement. Section 53 of the Act in fact prohibits a permitted user (
e.g. a licensee) from instituting a suit for infringement. To put it
differently, the person instituting the suit must be either a registered
proprietor or a registered  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
KPPNair 15 NMSL 141/2014 user. It cannot include a permitted user (licensee).
The Plaintiff No. 1 who is therefore a licensee cannot be joined as a Party to
the Suit. The joinder of Plaintiff No.1 is barred/prohibited in law.
17\. The clause pertaining to jurisdiction in the Plaint filed in the above
Suit, is paragraph 44 and the averments made by the Plaintiffs in the said
paragraph are reproduced hereunder:
> "44. The Plaintiffs carries on business in Mumbai. The 1 st Plaintiff has
> its registered office in Mumbai and the Plaintiff No.2 has its corporate
> office in Mumbai from where the Plaintiffs are carrying on business in
> Mumbai. The person who has instituted the suit is voluntarily residing in
> Mumbai and/or working for personal gain in Mumbai. Therefore, under Section
> 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 this Hon'ble Court has jurisdiction to try,
> entertain and dispose off the present suit in respect of the cause of action
> of infringement of the trade mark. The Defendant is carrying on business
> outside Mumbai and selling goods under the mark ''ULTRA"outside Mumbai
> therefore this Hon'ble Court has no jurisdiction to try, entertain and
> dispose off the present suit in respect of the cause of action of passing
> off. Therefore, the Plaintiffs are seeking Leave under Clause XIV of the
> Letters Patent against Defendant to combine the cause of action of passing
> off along with the cause of action of infringement and submit that with such
> leave granted this Hon'ble Court will have jurisdiction to try, entertain
> and dispose off the present suit in respect of the cause of action of
> passing off. A separate petition is being filed for obtaining Leave under
> Clause XIV of the Letters Patent.
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
> KPPNair 16 NMSL 141/2014
> 18\. It is a settled position in law that while considering the plea under
> Order VII Rule 11, the averments in the Plaint are required to be treated as
> true. While considering an application under Order VII Rule 11, the Court
> cannot look into the defence of the Defendant. The Court has to proceed on
> the footing that on the averments made in the Plaint, whether an order can
> be passed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code. In Sopan Sukhdeo Sable and
> others vs. Assistant Charity Commissioner and others (supra) the Hon'ble
> Supreme Court has held that for the purposes of deciding an application
> under clauses (a) and (d) of Order VII Rule 11 of the Code, the averments in
> the Plaint are germane, the pleas taken by the Defendant in the Written
> Statement would be wholly irrelevant at that stage. Therefore, the
> Plaintiffs are correct in its contention that the Defendant is not entitled
> to resort to the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 (d) on the ground that the
> entire Plaint is liable to be rejected, because Plaintiff No. 1 as a
> licensee is not entitled to file a suit for infringement. It is an admitted
> position that Plaintiff No.2 is the registered proprietor and has permitted
> Plaintiff No.1 to use the marks. The Plaintiffs have stated in the Plaint
> that the first Plaintiff is a licensee and the use of the marks by the first
> Plaintiff is for and on behalf of the second Plaintiff and the goodwill and
> reputation of the marks by such use is owned by the second Plaintiff. Any
> use made by Plaintiff No. 1 enures to the benefit of Plaintiff No.2. The
> Plaint cannot be rejected because the Suit for infringement is in any event
> maintainable, inasmuch as Plaintiff No.2 is the registered proprietor and
> ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 17 NMSL 141/2014 is
> entitled to file the Suit for the relief for infringement. In any case, the
> first Plaintiff is a proper and necessary party for the causes of action in
> the present Suit. Further the Suit is a composite suit for the causes of
> action of infringement and passing off and therefore the presence of the
> first Plaintiff to the Suit is proper and necessary.
19\. The Defendant's contention that the Plaintiff No.1 has no right to file
the suit is also incorrect in view of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Exphar SA & Anr. Vs. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. 13 relied upon by the
Defendant, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court, while considering various
alternate pleas in paragraph 14 clearly held that though Appellant No. 2 had
not claimed ownership of copyright, or the trademark and that he will not be
entitled to the relief claimed in the suit, but that was no reason for holding
that it was not a person who had instituted the suit within the meaning of
Section 62 (2) of the Copyright Act. Therefore, as correctly submitted by the
Plaintiffs, the question that is required to be considered under Section 134
of the Act is whether any of the Plaintiffs who is one of the parties having
instituted the Suit, carries on business within the jurisdiction of this
Court. The question whether one of such persons is not entitled to the reliefs
claimed in the Suit is irrelevant in view of the categorical statement of law
laid down in the said case by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraph 14 which
is reproduced herein below for the sake of convenience:
        13 (2004) 3 SCC 688
                                                                             ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
         KPPNair                                              18                                   NMSL 141/2014
"14. Even if the jurisdiction of the Court were restricted in the manner
construed by the Division Bench, it is evident not only from the cause title
but also from the body of the plaint that the appellant No.2 carries on
business within the jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court. The appellant No. 2
is certainly ''a person instituting the suit''. The Division Bench went beyond
the express words of the statute and negatived the jurisdiction of the Court
because it found that the appellant No.2 had not claimed ownership of the
copyright of the trademark infringement of which was claimed in the suit. The
appellant No.2 may not be entitled to the relief claimed in the suit but that
is no reason for holding that it was not a person who had instituted the suit
within the meaning of Section 62 (2) of the Act."
20\. The attempt on the part of the Defendant to distinguish the above
judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court lends no assistance to the Defendants.
Section 62 (2) of the Copyright Act, 1957, is on the same lines as Section 134
(2) of the Act and confers jurisdiction on Courts at the place where the
Plaintiff resides or carries on business. Again, the aforesaid observations of
the Supreme Court are independent of any other facts such as the suit having
been filed for wrongful threat and Appellant No. 2 carrying on business in
Delhi. The observations are clear, that if any person suing carries on
business within the jurisdiction of a Court, then whether he is entitled to
the reliefs or not, the Court will have jurisdiction if such person carries on
business within the jurisdiction of such Court.
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
KPPNair 19 NMSL 141/2014
21\. The Defendant's contention that the Plaintiff is attempting to form a
''jurisdictional joint venture'' cannot be accepted. As set out hereinabove,
Plaintiff No.2 is the proprietor of the mark and Plaintiff No.1 which is the
subsidiary of Plaintiff No.2 is a licensee. Plaintiff No.1 deal under the
registered trademark of Plaintiff No.2 in goods manufactured by it as a
licensee and does not deal with any third party goods at all. In view of the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Exphar SA and another vs.
Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. and another (supra), referred to hereinabove, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court clearly negated a similar contention as raised by the
Defendant in this matter and held that the fact that a licensee was a party to
the suit and was carrying on business within the jurisdiction of the Court,
there was no question of the contention of the Defendant in that case being
accepted. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dhodha
House vs. S.K. Maingi14 at page 12 paragraph 49 states to the effect that the
distributor must be the sole distributor and must not be dealing in the goods
of some other party, has no application to the facts of this case. Plaintiff
No.1 is not a distributor but is a licensee of Plaintiff No.2. Plaintiff No. 1
uses the mark in respect of goods manufactured by it under the license from
Plaintiff No.2 and does not deal in any goods belonging to any other party.
The decision in the case must be confined to the facts of that case and cannot
be applied to the present case. The present case is clearly covered by the
dicta of 14 (2006) 9 SCC 41: 2006 (32) PTC 1 (SC)  ::: Downloaded on -
02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 20 NMSL 141/2014 the Supreme Court in the case
of Exphar SA and another (supra) and hence the Defendant's contention that the
joinder of Plaintiff No.1 is barred by law is untenable. Further, and in any
event, such a contention cannot be countenanced in an application under order
VII Rule 11 of the Code. Plaintiff No.1 is a person instituting the Suit and
therefore the Defendant's contention that first Plaintiff's presence should be
ignored and only the presence of Plaintiff No.2 should be considered is
totally devoid of merit. In any event, Plaintiff No.2 also carries on business
in Mumbai. It is categorically stated in paragraph 44 of the Plaint that
Plaintiff No. 1 has its Registered Office in Mumbai and Plaintiff No.2 has its
Corporate Office in Mumbai from where the Plaintiffs are carrying on business
in Mumbai. As already held herein while considering an application under Order
VII Rule 11, this Court is required to proceed on the pleadings in the Plaint
and not on any dispute raised by the Defendant as to the facts or averments
made in the Plaint.
22\. I am also in agreement with the submission advanced on behalf of the
Plaintiffs that the reference to the provisions of the Act requiring only a
registered proprietor or a registered user being entitled to file a suit for
infringement is irrelevant. The Act provides for filing of a suit for
infringement and also suit relating to the registered trademark in the court
within the jurisdiction of which the Plaintiff resides or carries on business.
For example, a suit for specific performance of an agreement to assign a
registered trademark under an agreement by which the defendant has agreed to
do so, can be filed  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 21
NMSL 141/2014 by the plaintiff where the plaintiff carries on business. Such a
suit is not a suit for infringement but a suit relating to trademark mentioned
in Section 134 of the Act. The contention raised by the Defendant that under
sub-section (2) of Section 134 of the Act, the word ''person'' includes the
registered proprietor or the registered user only is irrelevant. The word used
in the explanation is ''includes'' and therefore the definition is inclusive.
The Legislature has purposely not restricted the meaning of the word
''person'' only to a registered proprietor and registered user, otherwise the
Legislature would have used the word ''means''. There is a difference between
the scope of the definition which uses the word 'includes' and one which uses
the word 'means'.
23\. In view of the aforestated reasons/discussion, I am of the view that this
Court in the above Notice of Motion filed under Order VII Rule 11 (d) cannot
hold that the Plaintiff No. 1 cannot be joined as a Party to the present Suit
or that the joinder of Plaintiff No.1 is bad/barred/prohibited in law.
24\. The next contention of the Defendant is that Plaintiff No.2 does not
answer the description of ''carries on business'' within jurisdiction and
therefore independently of its first submission, the Suit is barred under
Section 134 of the Act. In support of this contention, the Defendant has very
heavily relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Patel Roadways (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court interpreted the words
''carry on business'' in relation to Corporations having multiple offices at
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 22 NMSL 141/2014 different
locations to mean either the registered office or such subordinate office
where the cause of action arose. The Defendant has strongly urged that the
limitation contained in explanation (2) to Section 20 ought to be read whilst
construing Section 134 of the Act.
25\. Section 20 of the Code reads thus:
> "20. Other suits to be instituted where Defendant resides or cause of action
> arises. Subject to the limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be instituted
> in Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction.
> (a) The Defendant, or each of the Defendant where there are more than one,
> at the time of the commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily
> resides, or carries on business or personally works for gain; or
> (b) Any of the Defendant, where there are more than one, at the time of the
> commencement of the suit actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on
> business, or personally works for gain, provided that in such case either
> the leave of the Court is given, or the Defendant who do not reside, or
> carry on business, or personally work for gain, as aforesaid, acquiesce in
> such institution; or
> (c) The cause of action, wholly or in part arises. Explanation - A
> Corporation shall be deemed to carry on business at its sole or principal
> office in 3 (India) or, in respect of any cause of action arising at any
> place where it has also a subordinate office, at such place.
Section 20 makes a reference only to the Defendant and the explanation also
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 23 NMSL 141/2014 refers to
a Corporation which is the Defendant to the Suit. Section 20 of the Code and
also Clause XII of the Letters Patent confer jurisdiction on a Court at a
place only with reference to the Defendant's location / situs, and place of
accrual of the cause of action. Section 134 of the Act which is a special
provision conferring jurisdiction makes no reference to the Defendant or his
location/situs nor to any cause of action at all or the place of the cause of
action. The only reference is to the place of the Plaintiff's
residence/business.
Section 134 creates/confers jurisdiction in addition and independently of
Section 20 of the Code and Clause XII of the Letters Patent. Therefore even if
the requirement of Clause XII of the Letters Parent is not satisfied or in a
given case Section 20 of the Code is not satisfied, Section 134 (2) will still
confer jurisdiction on its own terms. If the Plaintiff resides and/or carries
on business within the jurisdiction of this Court, there is no further
requirement in the said Section. Though the provisions of Section 20 of the
Code are not applicable to this Court, assuming that the said provisions were
applicable, there is no question of the issue being decided by making a
reference to Section 20 of the Code. The issue is required to be considered by
reading the provisions of Section 134 of the Act alone, where there is no such
limitation as is contained in explanation (2) to Section 20 of the Code. It is
a settled position of law that no words can be added to the provisions of a
statute.
There is no ambiguity in Section 134 of the Act. Relying on the decision of
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 24 NMSL 141/2014 the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Kerala vs. Mathai Verghese15 it
is correctly submitted that it is impermissible to read any additional
requirement in Section 134 of the Act. Therefore in view of the clear
provisions of Section 134 of the Act, there is no question of interpreting the
provisions of /considerations under Section 20 of the Code or even Clause XII
of the Letters Patent while considering jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of
the Act.
26\. I am also in agreement with the submission of the Plaintiffs that such a
requirement goes contrary to the clear intention of the Legislature. The Trade
& Merchandise Act, 1958 which was repealed by the Act did not contain any such
provision. Infringement suits were required to be filed according to the
provision of Clause XII or Section 20 of the Code (whichever applied) and this
meant that the suit could be filed where the cause of action arose or where
the Defendant resided or carried on business. Neither Clause XII nor Section
20 of the Code allows a suit to be filed where the Plaintiff resides or
carries on business. The Parliament made a deliberate and intentional
departure from that position by legislating Section 134 of the Act. The whole
object of incorporating the changes in Section 134 of the Act was to allow the
Plaintiff to file a suit at a place where the Plaintiff resides or carries on
business without any reference to the place of business of the Defendant or to
the place where the cause of action arose. It is not the argument of the
Plaintiff that the 15 AIR 1987 SC 33  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00
::: KPPNair 25 NMSL 141/2014 place where the goods of the Plaintiff are sold,
will be the place having jurisdiction. The availability of goods in a retail
shop is different from the Plaintiff carrying on business. The Plaintiff
carries on business where it has an office and direct nexus to the place. The
explanation to Section 20 of the Code was on the statute when the Act was
enacted. Thus if the Legislature wanted to put any limitation in case of a
Corporation, which wanted to file a suit as in Section 20 of the Code, then
Section 134 of the Act could and would have been worded accordingly. This has
not happened. Thus the intention of legislature is clear that any Plaintiff,
whether an individual or a partnership or a corporation can file a suit at any
place where he/it carries on business and this is without any reference to any
cause of action or the place where the cause of action arises. It is therefore
submitted that the Defendant's interpretation of Section 134 of the Act, that
the cause of action must arise at the Corporate Office of the Plaintiff, i.e.
Mumbai, for the Plaintiff to be able to file this Suit in this Court, is
liable to be rejected.
27\. Again, as far as this Court is concerned as correctly submitted on behalf
of the Plaintiffs, the law on this aspect has been settled by two decisions of
the Division Bench of this Court viz. M/s. Arte Indiana vs. M/s.. P. Mittulaul
Lalah & Sons (supra) and Pratap Singh vs. The Bank of America (supra). In the
case of M/s. Arte Indiana, an argument was advanced that the cause of action
of infringement of copyright had not arisen within the jurisdiction of this
Court where the plaintiff in that case claimed to be carrying on business. In
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 26 NMSL 141/2014 Paragraph
6, this Court rejected the said contention by holding that Clause XIV of the
Letters Patent does not require that one of the causes of action should have
arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court. Paragraph 6 of the said judgment
is reproduced hereunder:
> "6. In our view, when Clause XIV does not require that one of the causes of
> action should have arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court, it would
> not be permissible to read such a requirement in that clause. In this
> regard, reference may be made to the decision of the Supreme Court in State
> of Kerala vs. Mathai Verghese & Ors. The Apex Court was considering the
> interpretation placed on Section 489 of the Indian Penal Code by the High
> Court. The High Court had interpreted the words ''any currency note'' in the
> said section as ''Indian currency note''. While reversing the decision of
> the High Court, the Supreme Court held that when the legislature does not
> speak of currency notes of India, the Court interpreting the relevant
> provisions of law cannot substitute the expression ''Indian currency note''
> in place of the expression ''currency note'' as has been done by the High
> Court.
28\. The question whether explanation to Section 20 of the Code can be read
into Clause XII of Letters Patent, came up for consideration before the
Division Bench of this Court in the case of Pratap Singh vs. The Bank of
America (supra).
In that case, a suit was filed against a foreign Corporation on the sole
ground that it had a branch office in Mumbai. Admittedly, no cause of action
had arisen  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 27 NMSL
141/2014 in the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. The Defendant raised
the plea of jurisdiction saying that no part of the cause of action has arisen
within the jurisdiction of this Court. The learned trial Judge accepted the
said contention and held that the Court had no jurisdiction. The Division
Bench reversed the said decision and allowed the Appeal by holding that there
is no such requirement in Clause XII. At page 567, the Division Bench after
considering Section 20 of the Code and its explanation noted that the further
provision in the explanation which is found in Section 20 of the Code is not
found in Clause XII of the Letters Patent. At page 570, the Court observed as
follows:
> "It would appear to us that in the circumstances, the question whether or
> not this Court has jurisdiction to entertain and try this suit would be
> required to be governed by considering whether it falls within the limits of
> jurisdiction prescribed by clause 12 of the Letters Patent....."
The Division Bench further held that the plain words of Clause XII of the
Letters Patent cannot be restricted or limited by reference to principles of
private international law or similar considerations. In the context of the
argument that the provisions of principles of private international law
required a limitation to be read in Clause XII, the Division Bench held at
page 571 that if the provisions of domestic law are clear and unambiguous,
then the Court must give effect to it and cannot moderate or bend legislation
to render it in conformity with what the Court considers the proper rule of
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 28 NMSL 141/2014
international law. It observed:"
> The question then arises for consideration viz. whether the defendant is
> liable to be sued in respect of the cause of action arising wholly outside
> India and for this the plaintiff would be entitled in our opinion only to
> rely on the third category which we have enunciated whilst analyzing Clause
> 12 of the Letters Patent and that part of it viz. that the suit may be filed
> on the Original (Side of this High Court since the defendant carries on
> business within the limits of the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of
> this High Court.""
The Division Bench set out the legal position at page 576 and in sub-
paragraph Nos. 3, 4 and 5 held as follows:
> "3. The word 'defendant' occurring in Clause 12 of the Letters Patent or in
> Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure must be given its proper meaning
> and would include within its compass both natural and artificial persons
> i.e. living beings as well as corporations and no distinction is made in law
> between corporations as are incorporated in India and corporations as are
> incorporated outside India i.e. foreign corporations.
> 4\. Under the last part of Clause 12 of the Letters Patent a suit can be
> brought on the Original Side of this Court if the defendant at the time of
> institution of the suit dwells or carries on business or personally works
> for gain within the limits of such original jurisdiction of this High Court.
> For consideration of jurisdiction under this head, the consideration whether
> the cause of action has accrued wholly or in part within or without the
> limits of the said jurisdiction is wholly irrelevant.
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
> KPPNair 29 NMSL 141/2014
> 5\. In this part of Clause 12 of the Letters Patent a clear distinction has
> been made between carrying on of business and working for gain. In the
> latter case the legislative requirement is that the defendant should
> personally work for gain, whereas no such requirement is postulated for the
> carrying on of business. It means therefore that the defendant may carry on
> business himself or through an agent or agents.'' The Division Bench in sub-
> paragraph No. 7 at page 577 observed as follows:
> ''All that is required is whether within the limits of jurisdiction of this
> Court the Defendant by itself or through its agent is carrying on all or
> some business which he does."
> The Division Bench at page 578 further observed as follows:
> "In the facts and circumstances of the case, the express words of Clause 12
> of the Letters Patent confer jurisdiction on this Court and this
> jurisdiction cannot be refused to be exercised on the basis that any decree
> passed pursuant to this jurisdiction may not be given effect to or
> recognised as valid by foreign Courts. In the result the decision of the
> learned single Judge answering the preliminary issue in the negative and
> against the plaintiff-appellant is required to be set aside. In our view the
> said preliminary issue has to be answered in the affirmative. It is
> accordingly so answered and it is held that this Court has jurisdiction to
> entertain and try the suit."
> It is clear from the aforesaid judgment that there is no requirement of
> Clause XII that the cause of action must have arisen at the place where the
> Defendant carries on business. Only the Defendant carrying on business at
> the place is sufficient, even if the cause of action has arisen wholly
> elsewhere. And this position applies to individuals and corporations alike.
> Similarly, under Section 134 of the Act, there is no requirement of any
> cause of action also being  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
> KPPNair 30 NMSL 141/2014 required to arise at the place where the suit is
> filed. Only the place of the Plaintiff carrying on business is relevant and
> if the Plaintiff, whether an individual or a Corporation, carries on
> business at a particular place, Section 134 (2) vests jurisdiction in the
> Court at that place even if the entire cause of action has arisen elsewhere.
> Cause of action and the place at which it has arisen is wholly irrelevant
> under Section 134 of the Act. The distinction sought to be canvassed by the
> Defendant qua the aforesaid judgment is not at all helpful to hold
> otherwise.
29\. The Defendant has relied on the decision in IPRS vs. Sanjay Dalia
(supra). However, the said decision cited by the Defendant during the argument
is stayed by the Apex Court vide its order dated 27 th January, 2009 in SLP
No. 980 and 981 of 2009. The Defendant has further argued that though this
judgement is stayed, this Court is entitled to take the same view as has been
held in the case of World Wide Wrestling Entertainment vs. Reshma Collections
and others (supra). The same view cannot be taken because this Court is a
Chartered High Court and by virtue of the provisions of Section 120 of the
Code, the provisions of Section 20 of the Code are not applicable to this
Court. Again, the view expressed in IPRS vs. Sanjay Dalia (supra) is contrary
to the binding decisions of this Court viz. the two decisions referred to
hereinabove viz. M/s. Arte Indiana (supra) and Pratap Singh (supra). In any
event, in the said decision itself in paragraph 7 at page Nos. 5 and 6, it is
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 31 NMSL 141/2014 noted
that Section 134 of the Act is not intended to allow the Plaintiff to choose a
territorial forum which is not convenient to either of the parties as is
demonstrated by the case in hand. In the instant case, it cannot be said that
the forum viz. this Court is inconvenient to the Plaintiffs themselves. The
Madras High Court in Wipro Ltd. vs. Oushadha Chandrika Ayurvedic India (P)
Ltd. and others (supra) has clearly held that by virtue of Section 120 of the
Code, the provisions of Section 20 of the Code are not applicable as far as
the Chartered High Court is concerned and the scope of Section 134 of the Act
cannot be curtailed by reference to Section 20 of the Code or Clause XII of
the Letters Patent. Paragraph 14 of the said judgment reads as follows:
> "14. It is, thus, seen that Section 62 of the Copyright Act and Section 134
> of the Trade Marks Act prescribe an additional ground for attracting the
> jurisdiction of a Court over and above the normal ground, as laid down in
> Section 20 of the C.P.C. In other words, a special right is conferred on the
> proprietor of the registered trade mark to institute a suit for infringement
> of any trade mark or copyright in the district within whose jurisdiction he
> resides or carries on business. The provision contained in non-obstante
> clause by using the phrase "notwithstanding anything contained in the C.P.C,
> 1908 (5 of 1908) or any other law for the time being in force" is made with
> a view to give a overriding effect to the said provision.
It is equivalent to saying that the provision would hold the field
notwithstanding anything contained in the C.P.C or any other law for the time
being force. Moreover, by virtue of Section 120 of the C.P.C, the provisions
of Section 20 are not applicable as far as High  ::: Downloaded on -
02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 32 NMSL 141/2014 Court is concerned.
Therefore, the scope of this section cannot be curtailed by reference to
Section 20 of the C.P.C or Clause-12 of the Letters Patent. Therefore, in a
case of infringement of trade mark or copyright covered by Section 134(2) of
the Trade Marks Act or Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act, the question of
plaintiff taking prior leave under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent does not
arise and the plaintiff need not take leave of the Court under Clause 12 of
the Letters Patent even if only a part of the cause of action or no part of
the cause of action arose within the jurisdiction of this Court, if the
plaintiff ordinarily resides or carries on business within the jurisdiction of
the Court.
30\. I am in complete agreement with the view of the Madras High Court
Division Bench judgment and I am not inclined to accept any of the views
canvassed by the Defendant qua the said judgment.
31\. The second decision relied upon by the Defendant in the case of Archie
Comic Publications Inc. (Supra) is not applicable to the facts of the case.
Apart from the fact that the said case pertained to an application for
amendment of the plaint, for the reasons mentioned above, the said decision
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
> Court.
33\. The above Notice of Motion is therefore dismissed with no order as to
costs.
(S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.)  ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 :::
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                Judgment reserved on : 1st July, 2014
                                          Judgment pronounced on : 27th August, 2014
        JUDGMENT:
1\. The Defendant has filed the present Notice of Motion asserting that the
Plaint is liable to be rejected as "barred by law'' under Order VII Rule 11
(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (''Code'').
2\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is for
infringement and passing off. Leave under Clause XIV of the Letters Patent has
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 2 NMSL 141/2014 not been
granted till date. Hence, in law, there is presently no action for passing
off. The action before this Court is for infringement alone. It is submitted
that jurisdiction for the action for infringement has not been invoked with
reference to the 'cause of action'. In fact, it is an admitted position that
no part of the cause of action (infringement or passing off) has arisen within
the jurisdiction of this Court. The Plaintiffs have sought to sustain
jurisdiction, in so far as the plea of infringement is concerned, solely by
relying upon Section 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 ("the Act"). If this
requirement is not met, the action must forthwith fail.
3\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that admittedly it is
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                Judgment reserved on : 1st July, 2014
                                          Judgment pronounced on : 27th August, 2014
        JUDGMENT:
1\. The Defendant has filed the present Notice of Motion asserting that the
Plaint is liable to be rejected as "barred by law'' under Order VII Rule 11
(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (''Code'').
2\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is for
infringement and passing off. Leave under Clause XIV of the Letters Patent has
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 2 NMSL 141/2014 not been
granted till date. Hence, in law, there is presently no action for passing
off. The action before this Court is for infringement alone. It is submitted
that jurisdiction for the action for infringement has not been invoked with
reference to the 'cause of action'. In fact, it is an admitted position that
no part of the cause of action (infringement or passing off) has arisen within
the jurisdiction of this Court. The Plaintiffs have sought to sustain
jurisdiction, in so far as the plea of infringement is concerned, solely by
relying upon Section 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 ("the Act"). If this
requirement is not met, the action must forthwith fail.
3\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that admittedly it is
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                Judgment reserved on : 1st July, 2014
                                          Judgment pronounced on : 27th August, 2014
        JUDGMENT:
1\. The Defendant has filed the present Notice of Motion asserting that the
Plaint is liable to be rejected as "barred by law'' under Order VII Rule 11
(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (''Code'').
2\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is for
infringement and passing off. Leave under Clause XIV of the Letters Patent has
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 2 NMSL 141/2014 not been
granted till date. Hence, in law, there is presently no action for passing
off. The action before this Court is for infringement alone. It is submitted
that jurisdiction for the action for infringement has not been invoked with
reference to the 'cause of action'. In fact, it is an admitted position that
no part of the cause of action (infringement or passing off) has arisen within
the jurisdiction of this Court. The Plaintiffs have sought to sustain
jurisdiction, in so far as the plea of infringement is concerned, solely by
relying upon Section 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 ("the Act"). If this
requirement is not met, the action must forthwith fail.
3\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that admittedly it is
the Plaintiff No. 2 who is the owner of the marks which are allegedly
infringed by the Defendant and that the Plaintiff No.1 is a licensee/licensed
user of the marks. Relying on Sections 28, 52 and 53 of the Act, it is
submitted that the said Sections make it absolutely clear that only a
registered proprietor or a registered user can institute/maintain an action
for infringement. It is submitted that Section 53 of the Act in fact prohibits
a permitted user (example Licensee) from instituting a suit for infringement.
It is submitted that therefore the expression ''person instituting the suit''
means and must mean "a person, who under the Act, is entitled to institute a
suit". The person instituting the suit must either be a registered proprietor
or a registered user. It cannot include a permitted user (licensee). The
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
                                                   CORAM:  S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                Judgment reserved on : 1st July, 2014
                                          Judgment pronounced on : 27th August, 2014
        JUDGMENT:
1\. The Defendant has filed the present Notice of Motion asserting that the
Plaint is liable to be rejected as "barred by law'' under Order VII Rule 11
(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (''Code'').
2\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendant that the present Suit is for
infringement and passing off. Leave under Clause XIV of the Letters Patent has
::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 2 NMSL 141/2014 not been
granted till date. Hence, in law, there is presently no action for passing
off. The action before this Court is for infringement alone. It is submitted
that jurisdiction for the action for infringement has not been invoked with
reference to the 'cause of action'. In fact, it is an admitted position that
no part of the cause of action (infringement or passing off) has arisen within
the jurisdiction of this Court. The Plaintiffs have sought to sustain
jurisdiction, in so far as the plea of infringement is concerned, solely by
relying upon Section 134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 ("the Act"). If this
requirement is not met, the action must forthwith fail.
3\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Defendant that admittedly it is
the Plaintiff No. 2 who is the owner of the marks which are allegedly
infringed by the Defendant and that the Plaintiff No.1 is a licensee/licensed
user of the marks. Relying on Sections 28, 52 and 53 of the Act, it is
submitted that the said Sections make it absolutely clear that only a
registered proprietor or a registered user can institute/maintain an action
for infringement. It is submitted that Section 53 of the Act in fact prohibits
a permitted user (example Licensee) from instituting a suit for infringement.
It is submitted that therefore the expression ''person instituting the suit''
means and must mean "a person, who under the Act, is entitled to institute a
suit". The person instituting the suit must either be a registered proprietor
or a registered user. It cannot include a permitted user (licensee). The
also is contrary to the binding decisions of this Court.
32\. In the above circumstances, I hold as follows:
> (i) For the Court to have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the Act,
> only the place of the Plaintiff's residence/business is sufficient, and it
> is not necessary that the cause of action should also have arisen at  :::
> Downloaded on - 02/09/2014 23:48:00 ::: KPPNair 33 NMSL 141/2014 that place.
> (ii) In this case, this Court has jurisdiction to try the Suit for
> infringement under Section 134 (2) of the Act as the Plaintiff carries on
> business within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, and thus the
> requirements of Section 134 (2) of the Act are fully satisfied.
> (iii) The place of accrual of cause of action is not relevant to determine
> the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 134 (2) of the Act.
> (iv) Even if the Plaintiff is a Corporation and even if the cause of action
> for infringement arose wholly outside the territorial jurisdiction of this
> Court, this Court would still have jurisdiction under Section 134 (2) of the
> Act, since the Plaintiffs carry on business within the local limits of this
