Delhi High Court
Federation Of Hotels And ... vs Union Of India And Ors on 12 August, 2016
    $~
    *       IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                          Reserved on: July 22, 2016
                                          Decision on: August 12,2016
    +                          W.P.(C) 6482 of 2011
            FEDERATION OF HOTELS AND RESTAURANTS
            ASSOCIATION OF INDIA AND ORS.                 ..... Petitioners
                         Through: Mr. N. Venkataraman, Senior Advocate
                         with Mr. Sidharth Aggarwal, Advocate.
                               versus
            UNION OF INDIA AND ORS.                       ..... Respondents
                          Through: Mr. Dev P. Bhardwaj, CGSC for UOI
                          with Ms. Anubha Bhardwaj, Advocate.
                          Mr. Harpreet Singh, Senior Standing Counsel with
                          Mr. Gajan Kumar Singhal, Advocate for R-2 &
                          R-3.
            CORAM:
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
            JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
                               JUDGMENT
% Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.:
1.1 The challenge in this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India is to the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the
Finance Act 1994 (FA) whereby the provision to any person by a restaurant, by
having the facility of air-conditioning in any part of its establishment
serving food or beverage, including alcoholic beverages or both, in its
premises has been made amenable to service tax. Also challenged is the W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 1 of 51 constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)
(zzzzw) of the FA whereby the provision by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or
camp-site by whatever name called to any provision, accommodation for a
continuous period of less than three months has been made amenable to service
tax.
1.2 The additional prayers in the writ petition are for a declaration that
Section 66 E (i) of the FA to the extent it seeks to constitute a service
portion in an activity of supply of food or other articles as „declared
service‟ to be bad in law. The Petitioners seek a declaration that Rule 2C of
the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 is invalid.
Profile of the Petitioners 2.1 Petitioner No.1 is the Federation of Hotels and
Restaurants Association of India, a registered association whose members are a
number of hotels spread all over the country. Petitioner No.2, the Leela
Palace, Chanakya Puri, New Delhi is a unit of Hotel Leela Venture Limited
which runs 5-star hotels all over the country. Petitioner No.3 is Rodeo, a
restaurant which is part of the chain operating in the National Capital
Territory of Delhi.
2.2 Several members of the Petitioner No.1 Association run hotels which
provide both lodging and meals to the residents. They also operate air-
conditioned restaurants where meals are served to non-residents and casual
visitors. Many of the hotels have licence to serve liquors in such
restaurants. Some of the members of the Petitioner No.1 Association operate
only air- conditioned restaurants, serve meals to the visitors and also have
licence to serve liquor.
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 2 of 51
Case of the Petitioners
3\. The case of the Petitioners in short is that after Constitution (Forty-
Sixth Amendment) Act, 1982 which inserted clause 29A (f) in Article 366
defining „tax on sale or purchase of goods‟ to include 'a tax on the supply,
by way of or as part of any service, of food or any drink for cash, deferred
payment or other valuable consideration', all aspects of the transaction of
sale of food and beverages by the members of Petitioner No.1 to their
customers fell within the meaning of 'sale of goods' amenable to sales tax
i.e. value added tax („VAT‟) levied by taxing statutes of the States. It is
submitted that the provision of food and beverages in a restaurant, even where
it forms part of a hotel which provides lodging and meals is covered entirely
by Entry 54 of List II read with Article 366 (29A) (f) and, therefore, it is
only the State legislature that has the exclusive competence to legislate in
respect of levy of tax on such sale or purchase of goods. It is contended that
no part of the transaction of supply of food in a restaurant or hotel is now
left out for being made amenable to service tax levied by a statute enacted by
Parliament. Thus it is submitted that Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the FA is
beyond the legislative competence of Parliament.
4\. Further, it is pointed out that under Entry 62 of List II (State List) the
States are empowered to impose tax on luxuries including taxes on
entertainment, amusement, betting and gambling. In fact State Legislatures
have enacted statutes in terms of which luxury tax is levied on hotel
accommodation. It is submitted that the entire amount paid on provision of
accommodation by hotels is also a matter falling exclusively in the State
List. Therefore, the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of
the W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 3 of 51 FA the above provision whereby
Parliament seeks to levy service tax on a transaction which is completely
covered by Entry 54 of List II is challenged for lack of legislative
competence.
Relevant provisions
5\. First, the relevant constitutional and statutory provisions require to be
referred to. Articles 245, 246 and 248 of the Constitution read thus:
> "245. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may
> make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India, and the
> Legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State.
> (2) No law made by Parliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground
> that it would have extra-territorial operation.
> 246\. (1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has
> exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated
> in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the
> "Union List").
> (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to
> clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with
> respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule
> (in this Constitution referred to as the "Concurrent List").
> (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has
> exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect
> to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this
> Constitution referred to as the "State List").
> (4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any
> part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that
> such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 4 of 51
> 248\. Residuary powers of legislation.
> (l) Parliament has exclusive power to make any law with respect to any
> matter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or State List.
> (2) Such power shall include the power of making any law imposing a tax not
> mentioned in either of those Lists."
6\. Entries 54 and 62 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution
read as under:
> 54\. Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers, subject
> to the provisions of entry 92A of List I.
> 62\. Taxes on luxuries, including taxes on entertainments, amusements,
> betting and gambling
7\. By the Constitution (Forty-Sixth Amendment) Act, 1982, Article 366 (29A)
was inserted and it reads as under:
> "29A) "tax on the sale or purchase of goods" includes-
> (a) a tax on the transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of
> property in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable
> consideration;
> (b) a tax on the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some
> other form) involved in the execution of a works contract;
> (c) a tax on the delivery of goods on hire-purchase or any system of payment
> by instalments;
> (d) a tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose
> (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other
> valuable consideration;
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 5 of 51
> (e) a tax on the supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body
> of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable
> consideration;
> (f) a tax on the supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other
> manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human
> consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or
> service, is for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration;
> and such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a
> sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery or supply
> and a purchase of those goods by the person to whom such transfer, delivery
> or supply is made."
8\. Consistent with the above provisions, many state legislatures have enacted
statutes bringing to tax sale of food and beverages. For e.g. the Section 2
(zc) of the Delhi Value Added Tax Act 2004 defines 'sale' thus:
> "(zc) "sale" with its grammatical variations and cognate expression means
> any transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash or for
> deferred payment or for other valuable consideration (not including a grant
> or subvention payment made by one government agency or department, whether
> of the central government or of any state government, to another) and
> includes-
> (i) to (vi)....
> (vii) supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner
> whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption
> or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or service is
> for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration."
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 6 of 51
Impugned provisions of the Finance Act 1994
9\. By the Finance Act 2011the following sub-clauses, (zzzzv) and (zzzzw) were
inserted in sub-section 105 of Section 65 of the FA making the following
transactions taxable as service, viz., the service provided:
> "(zzzzv)- to any person, by a restaurant, by whatever name called, having
> the facility of air-conditioning in any part of the establishment, at any
> time during the financial year, which has license to serve alcoholic
> beverages, in relation to serving food or beverage, including alcoholic
> beverages or both, in its premises.
> (zzzzw)- to any person by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or camp-site by
> whatever name called, for providing of accommodation for a continuous period
> of less than three months."
10\. The Tax Research Unit (TRU) of the Department of Revenue, Government of
India explained the background and the purport of the above changes by a
communication dated 28th February 2011, the relevant portions which read as
under:
> "2. New Services 2.1 The following two new services have been proposed:
> (i) Services by air-conditioned restaurants having license to serve liquor;
> and
> (ii) Short-term accommodation in hotels/inns/clubs/guest houses etc. 1.1
> Restaurants provide a number of services normally in combination with the
> meal and/or beverage for a consolidated charge. These services relate to the
> use of restaurant space and furniture, air- conditioning, well-trained
> waiters, linen, cutlery and crockery, music live or otherwise, or a dance
> floor. The customer also has the benefit of personalized service by
> indicating his preference for certain ingredients e.g. salt, chilies, onion,
> garlic or oil. The extent and W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 7 of 51 quality
> of services available in restaurant is directly reflected in the margin
> charged over the direct costs. It is thus not uncommon to notice even
> packaged products being sold at prices far in excess of the MRP.
> 1.2 In certain restaurants the owners get into revenue-sharing arrangements
> with another person, who takes the responsibility of preparation of food,
> with his own materials and ingredients, while the owner takes responsibility
> for making space available, its decoration, furniture, cutlery, crockery and
> music etc. The total bill, which is composite, is shared between the two
> parties in terms of the contract. Here the consideration for services
> provided by the restaurants is more clearly demarcated.
> 1.3 Another arrangement is whereby the restaurant separates a portion of the
> bill as service charge. This amount is meant to be shared amongst the staff
> who attend the customers. Though this amount is exclusively for the services
> it does not represent the full value of all the services rendered by the
> restaurants.
> 1.4 The new levy is directed at services provided by high-end restaurants
> that are air-conditioned and have license to serve liquor. Such restaurants
> provide conditions and ambience in a manner that service provided may assume
> predominance over the food in many situations. It should not be confused
> with mere sale of food at any eating house, where such services are
> materially absent or so minimal that it will be difficult to establish that
> any service in any meaningful way is being provided.
> 1.5 It is not necessary that the facility of air-conditioning is available
> round the year. If the facility is available at any time during the
> financial year the conditions for the levy shall be met.
> 1.6 "The levy is intended to be confined to the value of services contained
> in the composite contract and shall not cover either the meal portion in the
> composite contract or mere sale of food by way of pick-up or home delivery,
> as also goods sold at MRP. Finance Minister has announced in his budget
> speech 70% abatement on this W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 8 of 51 service,
> which is, inter alia, meant to separate such portion of the bill as relates
> to the deemed sale of meals and beverages. The relevant notification will be
> issued when the levy is operationalised after the enactment of the Finance
> Bill."
11\. Likewise on the aspect of short-term accommodation, it was clarified that
the "actual levy will be restricted to accommodation with declared tariff of
Rs. 1,000 per day or higher by an exemption notification." The tax would be
levied even where the actual amount charged from a customer was less than Rs.
1,000 and would be charged on the "gross amount paid or payable for the value
of the service." The Finance Minister had announced a 50% rebate from the
value of the service which again was to be announced by a notification issued
when the levy was operationalised.
12\. The above amendments by which clauses (zzzzv) and (zzzzw) were introduced
in Section 65 (105) of the FA have been challenged on the ground that they are
beyond the legislative competence of Parliament.
13\. Thereafter, Parliament enacted the Finance Act, 2012 amending the FA by
inserting Sections 65B (22), 65 B (44), 66B and 66E. The relevant provisions
of the Finance Act 2012 read as under:
> "143. In the Finance Act, 1994-
> ...
> (C) after section 65A, the following section shall be inserted with effect
> from such date as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint,
> namely:-
> Interpretations.
> 65B. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,- .........
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 9 of 51
> (22) "declared service" means any activity carried out by a person for
> another person for consideration and declared as such under Section 66E;
> (44) "service" means any activity carried out by a person for another for
> consideration, and includes a declared service, but shall not include-
> (a) an activity which constitutes merely,-
> ..........
> (ii) such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods which is deemed to be
> sale within the meaning of clause (29A) of article 366 of the Constitution;
> or ..........
> (F) after Section 66A, the following sections shall be inserted with effect
> from such date as the Central Government may, by notification, appoint,
> namely:
> Charge of service tax on and after Finance Act, 2012.
> "66B. There shall be levied a tax (hereinafter referred to as the service
> tax) at the rate of twelve per cent on the value of all services, other than
> those services specified in the negative list, provided or agreed to be
> provided in the taxable territory by one person to another and collected in
> such manner as may be prescribed.
> ............
> Declared services.
> 66E. The following shall constitute declared services, namely:- ......
> (i) service portion in an activity wherein goods, being food or any other
> article of human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating) is
> supplied in any manner as a part of the activity."
14\. By a Notification No. 12/2012-Service Tax dated 17th March 2012 the
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 10 of 51 Union of India exempted various taxable
services from the whole of the service tax leviable under Section 66B of the
Finance Act, 1994. The following two activities, which were taxable services
were exempted by the said notification:
> "18. Services by way of renting of a hotel, inn, guest house, club, campsite
> or other commercial places meant for residential or lodging purposes, having
> declared tariff of a room below rupees one thousand per day or equivalent;
> 19\. Services provided in relation to serving of food or beverages by a
> restaurant, eating joint or a mess, other than those having the facility of
> air-conditioning or central air- heating in any part of the establishment,
> at any time during the year and which has a licence to serve alcoholic
> beverages."
15\. On 20th June 2012 by Notification No. 25/2012-ST, the aforementioned
notification dated 17th March 2012 was superseded. The two activities which
were exempted read as under:
> "18. Services by way of renting of a hotel, inn, guest house, club, campsite
> or other commercial places meant for residential or lodging purposes, having
> declared tariff of a unit of accommodation below rupees one thousand per day
> or equivalent.
> 19\. Services provided in relation to serving of food or beverages by a
> restaurant, eating joint or a mess, other than those having (i) the facility
> of air-conditioning or central air- heating in any part of the
> establishment, at any time during the year and (ii) which has a licence to
> serve alcoholic beverages."
16\. Notification No. 24/2012-ST dated 6th June 2012 was issued under Section
94 (2) (aa) of the FA whereby the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Second
Amendment Rules, 2012 amending the Service Tax W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page
11 of 51 (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 was issued. Rule 2C that was
inserted by the said amendment it reads as under:
> "2C. Determination of value of service portion involved in supply of food or
> any other article of human consumption or any drink in a restaurant or as
> outdoor catering.- Subject to the provisions of Section 67, the value of
> service portion, in an activity wherein goods being food or any other
> article of human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating) is
> supplied in any manner as a part of the activity at a restaurant or as
> outdoor catering, shall be the specified percentage of the total amount
> charged for such supply, in terms of the following Table, namely:-
             Sl. No.      Description                              Percentage
                                                                   of the total
                                                                   amount
             (1)                    (2)                               (3)
             1.           Service portion in an activity              40
                          wherein goods, being food or any
                          other article of human consumption
                          or any drink (whether or not
                          intoxicating) is supplied in any
                          manner as a part of the activity, at a
                          restaurant.
             2.           Service portion in outdoor catering         60
                          wherein goods, being food or any
                          other article of human consumption
                          or any drink (whether or not
                          intoxicating) is supplied in any
                          manner as a part of such outdoor
                          catering.
> Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this rule, "total amount" means the sum
> total of the gross amount charged and the fair market value of all goods and
> services supplied in or in relation to the supply of food W.P.(C) No. 6482
> of 2011 Page 12 of 51 or any other article of human consumption or any drink
> (whether or not intoxicating), whether or not supplied under the same
> contract or any other contract, after deducting-
> (i) the amount charged for such goods or services, if any; and
> (ii) the value added tax or sales tax, if any, levied thereon:
> Provided that the fair market value of goods and services so supplied may be
> determined in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles.
> Explanation 2.- For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the provider
> of taxable service shall not take CENVAT credit of duties or cess paid on
> any goods classifiable under Chapters 1 to 22 of the Central Excise Tariff
> Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)."
17\. These further changes by the Finance Act, 2012 have also been challenged
in the present writ petition. The additional prayers in the amended writ
petition are for a declaration that Section 66E of the FA to the extent it
seeks to constitute a service portion in an activity of supply of food or
other articles as „declared service‟ to be bad in law. Further the Petitioners
seek a declaration that Rule 2C of the 2006 Rules is also bad in law.
18\. By Notification No.3/2013-Service Tax dated 1st March, 2013 issued under
Section 93 (1) of the FA the Notification dated 10th June, 2012 was amended
and Entry 19 was substituted as under:
"19. Services provided in relation to serving of food or beverages by a
restaurant, eating joint or a mess, other than those having the facility of
air-
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 13 of 51
conditioning or central air-heating in any part of the establishment, at any
time during the year."
Submissions of learned Senior counsel for the Petitioners
19\. Mr. N. Venkataraman, learned Senior counsel appearing for the
Petitioners, first traced the history of the Constitution (Forty-Sixth
Amendment) Act, 1982 and in particular the insertion of clause (f) in 29A of
Article 366A of the Constitution. He sought to draw a distinction between the
entries in Article 366 (29A)(a), (b), (c) and (d) each of which began by
describing a tax on the sale and purchase of goods as a tax on the „transfer
of property' in goods or on the 'delivery of goods' or the transfer of the
right to use any goods for any purpose". According to him, Clauses (e) and (f)
on the other hand described a tax on the "supply of goods" and not merely on
the transfer of a property in goods. This according to him makes a catering
contract involving the provision of food and drinks in a hotel or restaurant
different from a mere sale of goods or food and drinks.
20\. Referring to the decisions in State of Himachal Pradesh v. Associated
Hotels of India Ltd. (1972) 1 SCC 472 and Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd.
v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (1978) 4 SCC 36 Mr. Venkataraman submitted that in
both the aforementioned decisions the supply of food and drinks in a hotel was
viewed by the Supreme Court to be a composite transaction providing a service
which was indivisible and therefore, not amenable to sales tax. It was with a
view to overcoming those decisions, Parliament brought the entire transaction
which otherwise would constitute a service, within the definition of „sale‟.
Therefore no part of the transaction, which may have an aspect of supply of
goods and another aspect of service W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 14 of 51 was
left out of the ambit of clause (f) of Article 366 (29A).
21\. Mr Venkataraman pointed out that the enactment by the Parliament by the
Finance Act, 2011 by which two new transactions were brought within the net of
service tax with effect from 1st May 2011 in the form of Sections 65 (105)
(zzzzv) and (zzzzw) was beyond its legislative competence. He submitted that
resort could not be had to the residue Entry 97 of List I (Union List) of the
Seventh Schedule with respect to a matter fully covered by Entry 54 of List II
(the State list). He pointed out that Entry 92C of List I which provides
„Taxes on Services‟ is yet to be notified and in any event could not make any
difference to the legal position. According to him, it is not possible to
extricate and assign separate value of the various aspects associated with the
provisions of service.
22\. Referring to Section 65(105) (zzzz) he pointed out that the renting of
immovable property excludes building used solely for residential purposes and
building used for the purposes of accommodation including hotels, hostels,
boarding houses, holiday accommodation, tents, camping facilities from the
ambit of service tax. With the above services having been exempted under
Section 65(105) (zzzz), it cannot be brought back by introducing another entry
in the form of Section 65(105) (zzzzw). He submitted that both VAT and luxury
tax are collected by the State Governments. VAT is calculated on the sale of
goods and luxury tax is payable by hotels, inn, guest houses, clubs and camp
sites on provision of accommodation. Service tax on either of these aspects,
therefore, cannot be levied as the two imposts were mutually exclusive.
Referring to the decision W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 15 of 51 in Imagic
Creative Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes 2008 (9) STR 337 (SC),
he submitted that the payment of service tax and VAT are mutually exclusive.
It is submitted that the attempt at treating transactions of sale of food,
beverages and liquor and also short term accommodation provided by the hotels
for less than three months as taxable service was an attempt in double
taxation inasmuch as the same transaction is liable for the payment of both
service tax and sales tax in one case and service tax and luxury tax on the
other.
23\. Mr. Venkataraman placed considerable reliance on the decision of the
Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in K. Damodarasamy Naidu v. State of
Tamil Nadu (2000) 1 SCC 521 where the Supreme Court, according to him,
clarified that while a customer in a fancy restaurant pays far more for the
supply of the goods, the amount paid for such supply is amenable to sales tax
notwithstanding that it may be part of rendering of service in the form of
good furniture, furnishing and fixtures, linen, crockery, cutlery etc. He also
relied on the decision of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court dated
21st October 2014 in W.A. No. 1125 of 2013 (Union of India v. Kerala Hotel
Association) whereby the Division Bench upheld the decision of a Single Judge
striking down Section 65(105) (zzzzv) and (zzzzw) of the FA on the ground of
lack of legislative competence of the Parliament.
24\. Mr. Venkataraman sought to distinguish the decision in Tamil Nadu Kalyana
Mandapam Association v. Union of India AIR 2004 SC 3757 which according to him
itself drew a distinction between the supply of food W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011
Page 16 of 51 and drink in restaurant and the provision of service in a
Mandapam. He referred to the decision in International Tourist Corporation v.
State of Haryana AIR 1981 SC 774 which emphasised that before legislative
competence can be claimed for Parliament by resort to the residuary power, the
legislative incompetence of the State legislative must be clearly established.
Emphasising the 'pith and substance' and the 'dominant nature' tests, he
submitted that in the present case the transaction in pith and substance was
entirely one of sale as defined under Article 366(29A) (f) and therefore the
State alone was competent to levy sales tax to the exclusion of the Union. He
also referred to the decision in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. v. Union of India
(2006) 3 SCC 1, which according to him held that the Union did not have any
power to tax a transaction the dominant nature of which was the sale of goods.
25\. According to Mr Venkataraman Rule 2C of the 2006 Rules which deemed 40%
of the total value of the transaction to be attributable to the value of
services was arbitrary and without any basis and was liable to be quashed.
Likewise, there was no basis for fixing the figure of Rs. 1,000 per day tariff
for the exemption from service tax on accommodation in terms of the
notifications dated 17th March and 6th June 2012.
26\. Mr. Venkataraman sought to distinguish the judgment of the Bombay High
Court in Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India 2014 (34)
S.T.R 522 (Bom)which negatived the challenge to the validity of Section 65
(105) (zzzzv) of the FA, the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Ballal
Auto Agency v. Union of India 2015 (40) S.T.R. 51 (Kar) W.P.(C) No. 6482 of
2011 Page 17 of 51 which negatived the challenge to the validity of Section 65
(105) (zzzzv) and (zzzzw) of the FA and the decision of the Chhattisgarh High
Court in Hotel East Park v. Union of India 2014 (35) S.T.R. 433 (Chhattisgarh)
which negatived the challenge to the validity of Section 66 E (i) of the FA.
Submissions of counsel for the Respondents
27\. In reply to the above submissions, it was urged by Mr. Dev Bhardwaj,
learned Standing counsel for the Central Government and Mr. Harpreet Singh
learned Senior Standing counsel for the Service Tax Department as under:
(i) Service tax was collected on specific taxable services which would include
catering contracts, which were composite contracts. The objective under the FA
was to levy service tax only on the service component of a transaction, with
abatement being allowed for the value of the goods supplied in the course of
such contract.
(ii) A distinction is to be drawn between the 'selective approach' adopted
when Sections 65 (105) (zzzzv) and (zzzzw) of the FA were introduced and the
'comprehensive' approach with the introduction of Section 65B (44) with a new
charging provision, Section 66B of the FA. Under the new approach the service
portion in an activity wherein goods or other article of consumption or any
drink is supplied in any manner is a declared service under Section 66E(i) of
the Act. In the case of short-term accommodation (hotel) service, the
abatement method is followed to arrive at the value of the service portion.
Prior to 2012, as far as the restaurant services were W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011
Page 18 of 51 concerned, the service portion was 30% with an abatement of 70%
for the value for the goods portion. As far as the short-term accommodation
service was concerned, the service portion was taken at 50%. These percentages
after 2012 were changed to 40% in the restaurant service and after CENVAT
credit was allowed the effective rate of service tax was 4.8%. As far as
short-term accommodation service was concerned, the effective rate of service
tax was 7.2% or less after CENVAT credit is allowed.
(iii) It is emphasised that the objects and reasons of the 46th amendment to
the Constitution make it clear that the phrase „service‟ used in Article 366
(29A) (f) emphasises the segregable nature of the composite contract. The
entire contract was not deemed to be a sale of goods but only the supply of
goods as part of the service including the service provided in a restaurant.
The State can levy sales tax only on the goods portion in the case of
restaurant service and the Union is constitutionally entitled to tax the
service portion. The stand of the Respondents is that if the State took
cognizance of the meaning of tax on supply of goods and services under Article
366(29A)
(f) and limited their taxation in the case of restaurant service to the goods
portion leaving the service portion for taxation by the Union then the issue
of double taxation would not arise. Likewise, as far as short-term
accommodation (hotel) service is concerned, the power of the State to impose
tax on the aspect of luxuries would not preclude the Union to levy tax on the
service. A reference is made to the decisions in Federation of Hotel &
Restaurant Association of India v. Union of India 1988 AIR 1291 and
Association of Leasing Financial Service Companies v. Union of India (2011) 2
SCC 352.
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 19 of 51
(iv) By the notification dated 17th March 2012, as modified by the
Notification dated 6th June 2012, there has been an increase in the value of
the service portion of the composite contract of supply of goods and services
in a restaurant from 30 to 40%. Further a limited exemption has been granted
from the service tax leviable on short-term accommodation (hotel) service when
the declared tariff per day for a hotel room is less than Rs.1000. This has
been done in the interests of the economically poor tourist. The exemption is
also similar to the exemptions given by the States while levying luxury tax.
(v) Consistent with the best practices in the area of Goods and Service Tax
(„GST‟), from 2012 onwards the Government of India has allowed unrestricted
CENVAT credit of service tax paid on input services and credit of duty paid on
inputs (goods other than those falling under the Central Excise Tariff Chapter
22) or capital goods, used for providing restaurant service. Under the new
approach the CENVAT credit has been liberalized to coincide with
internationally followed GST principles and the value of the goods portion has
been settled at the level of 60%. Likewise, in the case of short-term
accommodation (hotel) service, CENVAT credit of input services has been
allowed at the hands of the service provider. It is pointed out that therefore
the additional burden of service tax arising out of rationalization of
abatement percentages involving goods portion would be offset by the gains
arising from the liberalization of CENVAT credit chain in the hands of the
service provider. It is submitted that for the ultimate consumer, effect of
the changes in abatement percentages involving goods portion would by and
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 20 of 51 large be neutral.
(vi) Legislative competence is to be determined with reference to the object
of the levy and not with reference to its incidence or the machinery for
collection of tax. Referring to the decision in Association of Leasing &
Financial Services Companies v. Union of India (supra), it is emphasised that
only the supply of goods as part of any service is amenable to tax/VAT under
Article 366 (29A)(f) and that the service portion is excluded from the supply.
(vii) Under the Central Product Classification („CPC‟) of United Nations
Statistical Commission, the „Food Serving Services' and 'Beverages Serving
Services' for consumption on the premises are being categorized under Groups
632 and 633. The International Standard Industrial Clarification ('ISIC‟) of
all economic activities also classifies „food and beverages service
activities‟ under Division 65 and more specifically under Class 5610 and
5630\.
(viii) What is being taxed by the Union is the activity of providing short-
term accommodation and not luxury provided in a hotel. Service tax is applied
only on the taxable value arrived at after abatement. It is possible that the
activity may be service for the purpose of one statute and sale for the
purpose of another. The same activity could be treated as service in one
situation and as sale in another.
(ix) Levy of service tax falls under Entry 97 of List I read with Article 248
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 21 of 51 of the Constitution of India as held in
Tamil Nadu Kalyana Mandapam Association v. Union of India (supra) Gujarat
Ambuja Cements Ltd. v. Union of India (2005) 4 SCC 214 and All India
Federation of Tax Practitioners v. Union of India (2007) 7 SCC 527. In terms
of Tamil Nadu Kalyana Mandapam Association (supra), if an aspect is not
covered within List II Schedule VII of the Constitution of India, it would
fall within the exclusive power of the Parliament in terms of Article 248 of
the Constitution of India. Since in the present case it is clear that the
power to tax the service element does not lie within the legislative
competence of the States, the same falls within the domain of the Parliament
under Entry 97, List I of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India.
Legislative History of the 46th Amendment
28\. Before discussing the scope of expression „tax on the sale of goods'
occurring in Article 366 (29A) of the Constitution, which was inserted by the
Constitution with introduction of 46th Amendment Act, the legal history behind
the said amendment requires to be noticed.
29\. In State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley AIR 1958 SC 560, the Supreme Court
was considering the question whether a works contract which was a composite
one involving the supply of goods as well as supply of labour and services
would be amenable to state sales tax. It was held that the sale of goods
should have three ingredients: (i)an agreement to transfer title (ii)
consideration and, (iii) an actual transfer of title in the goods. It was held
that where there is a contract involving sale of material and provision of
labour which could not be separated, it would not fall within the definition
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 22 of 51 of sale of goods since there was no
supply of materials. It was held that the State Government would not have
legislative competence to levy tax on such transaction.
30\. The decision in Gannon Dunkerley (supra) recognized eight possible
deductions from the value of the composite works contract. However, at that
stage there was no machinery provision by which it was possible to bifurcate
the expenses into the portion relating to supply of goods and the supply of
labour and services, particularly if the contractor‟s accounts were not
maintained in that manner.
31\. The first instance of challenge to levy of sales tax on the supply of
food and drinks in a hotel, another composite contract, was in State of
Himachal Pradesh v. Associated Hotels of India Ltd. (supra). The Supreme Court
was considering a situation where hotels were providing to their guests both
accommodation and food which was served at fixed hours without there being no
separate charge for the food. The Supreme Court held this to be a composite
contract which could not be split up and taxed as one for sale of goods and
another for service in the absence of any intention to separately sell the
food. The transaction was, therefore, held to be outside the purview of the
State sales tax.
32\. The issue was re-visited by the Supreme Court in Northern India Caterers
(India) Ltd. v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (supra). The Supreme Court examined
whether under the Bengal Finance Sales Tax Act, 1941 the supply of food in a
restaurant was exigible to tax as a sale. The Supreme Court W.P.(C) No. 6482
of 2011 Page 23 of 51 followed the earlier decision in State of Himachal
Pradesh v. Associated Hotels of India Ltd. (supra) and held that the true
essence of the transaction was service and did not involve a transfer of the
general property in the food supplied. The Court observed:
> "6. It has already been noticed that in regard to hotels this Court has in
> M/s. Associated Hotels of India Limited adopted the concept of the English
> law that there is no sale when food and drink are supplied to guests
> residing in the hotel. The court pointed out that the supply of meals was
> essentially in the nature of a service provided to them and could not be
> identified as a transaction of sale. The court declined to accept the
> proposition that the Revenue was entitled to split up the transaction into
> two parts, one of service and the other of sale of food- stuffs. If that be
> true in respect of hotels, a similar approach seems to be called for on
> principle in the case of restaurants. No reason has been shown to us for
> preferring any other. The classical legal view being that a number of
> services are concomitantly provided by way of hospitality, the supply of
> meals must be regarded as ministering to a bodily want or to the
> satisfaction of a human need. What has been said in Electa B. Merrill
> appears to be as much applicable to restaurants in India as it does
> elsewhere. It has not been proved that any different view should be taken,
> either at common law, in usage or under statute."
33\. In the order in the review petition, Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd.
v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (1980) 2 SCC 167 (hereafter Northern India Caterers
Review Order), the Supreme Court clarified that where food was supplied in an
eating house or a restaurant and it is established upon the facts that the
substance of the transaction, evidenced by its dominant object, was the sale
of food and the rendering of services was merely incidental, the transactions
would be exigible to sales tax. The Court further clarified as under:
"It appears from the submissions now made that the respondent as W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 24 of 51 well as other States are apprehensive that the
benefit of the judgment of this Court will be invoked by restaurant-owners in
those cases also where there is a sale of food and title passes to the
customers. It seems to us that having regard to the facts upon which our
judgment rests undisputed as they have remained throughout the different
stages of the litigation-and the considerations which they attract, no such
apprehension can be reasonably entertained. Indeed, we have no hesitation in
saying that where food is supplied in an eating-house or restaurant, and it is
established upon the facts that the substance of the transaction, evidenced by
its dominant object, is a sale of food and the rendering of services is merely
incidental, the transaction would undoubtedly be exigible to sales-tax. In
every case it will be for the tax authority to ascertain the facts on making
an assessment under the relevant sales tax law and to determine upon those
facts whether the sale of the food supplied is intended".
34\. It is not in dispute that with a view to overcome the aforementioned
decisions in State of Himachal Pradesh v. Associated Hotels of India (supra)
and Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd. v. Lt. Governor (supra) and other
decisions, Parliament inserted Article 366 (29 A) (a) to (f) by the 46th
Amendment to the Constitution. This is apparent from the Statement of Objects
and Reasons (SOR) for the 46th Amendment, the relevant portions of which read
as under:
> "2. By a series of subsequent decisions, the Supreme Court has, on the basis
> of the decision in Gannon Dunkerley held various other transactions, which
> resemble, in substance, transactions by way of sales, to be not liable to
> sales tax. As a result of these decisions, a transaction, in order to be
> subject to the levy of sales tax under Entry 92-A of the Union List or Entry
> 54 of the State List, should have the W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 25 of 51
> following ingredients, namely, parties competent to contract, mutual assent
> and transfer of property in goods from one of the parties to the contract to
> the other party thereto for a price.
> 3\. This position has resulted in scope for avoidance of tax in various
> ways. An example of this is the practice of inter-State consignment
> transfers i.e. transfer of goods from head office or a principal in one
> State to a branch or agent in another State or vice versa or transfer of
> goods on consignment account, to avoid the payment of sales tax on inter-
> State sales under the Central Sales Tax Act. While in the case of a works
> contract, if the contract treats the sale of materials separately from the
> cost of the labour, the sale of materials would be taxable but in the case
> of an indivisible works contract, it is not possible to levy sales tax on
> the transfer of property in the goods involved in the execution of such
> contract as it has been held that there is no sale of the materials as such
> and the property in them does not pass as movables... In the Associated
> Hotels of India case (AIR 1972 SC 1131), the Supreme Court held that there
> is no sale involved in the supply of food or drink by a hotelier to a person
> lodged in the hotel. ...
> 8\. Besides the above mentioned matters, a new problem has arisen as a
> result of the decision of the Supreme Court in Northern India Caterers
> (India) Ltd. v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (AIR 1978 SC 1591). States have been
> proceeding on the basis that the Associated Hotels of India case was
> applicable only to supply of food or drink by a hotelier to a person lodged
> in the hotel and that tax was leviable on the sale of foodstuffs by a
> restaurant. But over-ruling the decision of the Delhi High Court, the
> Supreme Court has held in the above case that service of meals whether in a
> hotel or restaurant does not constitute a sale of food for the purpose of
> levy of sales tax but must be regarded as the rendering of a service in the
> satisfaction of a human need or ministering to the bodily want of human
> beings. It would not make any difference whether the visitor to the
> restaurant is charged for the meal as a whole or according to each dish
> separately.
> 9\. It is, therefore, proposed to suitably amend the Constitution to include
> in article 366 a definition of "tax on the sale or purchase of goods" by
> inserting a new clause (29A)... "
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 26 of 51
35\. As noted in the concurring opinion of Dr. A. R. Lakshmanan, J. in Bharat
Sanchar Nigam Ltd. v. Union of India (supra):
> "Each one of the sub-clauses of Article 366(29-A) introduced by the Forty-
> sixth Amendment was a result of a ruling of this Court which was sought to
> be neutralised or modified. Sub-clause (a) is the outcome of New India Sugar
> Mills Ltd. v. and Vishnu Agencies (P) Ltd. v. CTO 14 STC 316. Sub-clause (b)
> is the result of Gannon Dunkerley & Co. 1959 SCR 379. Sub-clause (c) is the
> result of K.L. Johar and Co. v. CTO 1965 (2) SCR 112. Sub-clause (d) is
> consequent to A.V. Meiyappan v. CIT 20 STC 115. Sub-clause (e) is the result
> of Jt. Commercial tax Officer v. YMIA (1970) 1 SCC 462. Sub-clause (f) is
> the result of Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd.v. Lt. Governor of Delhi "
36\. Importantly, in para 13 of the SOR for the 46th Amendment to the
Constitution it was observed that the "proposed amendments would help in the
augmentation of the State revenues to a considerable extent." The focus was on
ensuring that State sales tax was leviable on the portion of supply of food
and drinks even where it was as a part of a composite catering contract. The
focus at that stage was not on capturing any portion of that composite
contract for the purpose of levy of service tax. This was 1982 and service tax
was not thought of till a decade later. Therefore, it is difficult to imagine
that Parliament had in 1982 at the time of the 46th Amendment consciously
decided that no portion of the composite contract of a catering contract would
be amenable to levy of Union service tax.
Validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the FA W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page
27 of 51
37\. With the above legislative history in the background, the challenge to
Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the FA which provides for levy of service tax on
provision of service by air-conditioned restaurants having license to serve
liquor is now examined.
38\. The broad parameters on which the challenge to constitutional validity of
central taxing statutes on the ground of lack of legislative competence of the
Parliament is to be approached has been encapsulated in the following passage
in International Tourist Corporation v. State of Haryana (supra):
> "7. Before exclusive legislative competence can be claimed for Parliament by
> resort to the residuary power, the legislative incompetence of the State
> legislative must be clearly established. Entry 97 itself is specific that a
> matter can be brought under that entry only if it is not enumerated in List
> II or List III and in the case of a tax if it is not mentioned in either of
> those lists. In a Federal Constitution like ours where there is a division
> of legislative subjects but the residuary power is vested in Parliament,
> such residuary power cannot be so expansively interpreted as to whittle down
> the power of the State legislature. That might affect and jeopardise the
> very federal principle. The federal nature of the Constitution demands that
> an interpretation which would allow the exercise of legislative power by
> Parliament pursuant to the residuary powers vested in it to trench upon
> State legislation and which would thereby destroy or belittle State autonomy
> must be rejected."
39\. In Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. v. Union of India (supra) the Court
explained:
> "This mutual exclusivity which has been reflected in Article 246(1) means
> that taxing entries must be construed so as to maintain exclusivity.
> Although generally speaking, a liberal interpretation must be given to
> taxing entries, this would not bring within its purview a tax on subject-
> matter which a fair reading of the entry does not cover. If in W.P.(C) No.
> 6482 of 2011 Page 28 of 51 substance, the statute is not referable to a
> field given to the State, the court will not by any principle of
> interpretation allow a statute not covered by it to intrude upon this
> field."
40\. Specific to the challenge to the levy of service tax by Parliament on the
service portion of a composite contract the following passage in Commissioner,
Central Excise & Customs, Kerala v. Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (2016) 1 SCC 170 is
instructive:
> "15.At this stage, it is important to note the scheme of taxation under our
> Constitution. In the lists contained in the 7th Schedule to the
> Constitution, taxation entries are to be found only in lists I and II. This
> is for the reason that in our Constitutional scheme, taxation powers of the
> Centre and the States are mutually exclusive. There is no concurrent power
> of taxation. This being the case, the moment the levy contained in a taxing
> statute transgresses into a prohibited exclusive field, it is liable to be
> struck down. In the present case, the dichotomy is between sales tax
> leviable by the States and service tax leviable by the Centre. When it comes
> to composite indivisible works contracts, such contracts can be taxed by
> Parliament as well as State legislatures. Parliament can only tax the
> service element contained in these contracts, and the States can only tax
> the transfer of property in goods element contained in these contracts.
> Thus, it becomes very important to segregate the two elements completely for
> if some element of transfer of property in goods remains when a service tax
> is levied, the said levy would be found to be constitutionally infirm.
41\. As regards the limitation on the legislative power of the States to levy
sales tax on services the Court in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited v. Union of
India (supra) observed:
> "80. ... No one denies the legislative competence of the States to levy
> sales tax on sales provided that the necessary concomitants of a sale are
> present in the transaction and the sale is distinctly discernible in the
> transaction.
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 29 of 51
> 81\. This does not however allow the State to entrench upon the Union List
> and tax services by including the cost of such service in the value of the
> goods. Even in those composite contracts which are by legal fiction deemed
> to be divisible under Article 366(29-A), the value of the goods involved in
> the execution of the whole transaction cannot be assessed to sales tax."
42\. Therefore what is essential in proceeding to examine the challenge in the
present case is to determine whether the composite catering contract is
capable of being segregated into the portion pertaining to supply of goods and
the portion pertaining to the service provided.
43\. To revert to Article 366 (29A), the focus as far as the present petition
is concerned is on Clause (f) which seeks to define tax on sale purchase of
goods. The constituent elements as it were, of the definition are:
(i) the supply of goods being food or any other article for human consumption
or any drink (whether or not intoxicating);
(ii) the supply of goods could by way of or as part of any service or in any
other manner whatsoever; and
(iii) such supply or service could be for cash, deferred payment or other
valuable consideration.
44\. If the above three elements are present then "such transfer, delivery or
supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person
making the transfer, delivery or supply and a purchase of those goods W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 30 of 51 by the person to whom such transfer, delivery
or supply is made."
45\. The subject matter of "transfer, delivery or supply" are the „goods‟,
which in this case would be food or any other article fit for consumption
whether or not intoxicated. The key expression is not just „supply‟ but
„supply of goods‟. It is arguable that the expression „supply of goods‟
connotes that the dominant nature of the transaction is the transfer, delivery
or supply of goods and the provision of service is only incidental to such
transfer, delivery or supply. The dominant nature test was emphasised in
Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited v. Union of India (supra) However, in Larsen and
Toubro Limited v. State of Karnataka (2014) 1 SCC 708, the Supreme Court held:
> "Whether the contract involved a dominant intention to transfer the property
> in goods, in our view, is not at all material. It is not necessary to
> ascertain what is the dominant intention of the contract. Even if the
> dominant intention of the contract is not to transfer the property in goods
> and rather it is the rendering of service or the ultimate transaction is
> transfer of immovable property, then also it is open to the States to levy
> sales tax on the materials used in such contract if it otherwise has
> elements of works contract."
46\. By the same logic even if some part of the composite transaction involves
the rendering of service, there should be no difficulty in recognising the
power of the Union to bring to tax that portion. Section 66 E
(i) of the FA which defines 'declared service' to be the "service portion in
an activity wherein goods, being food or any other article of human
consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating) is supplied in any
manner as a part of the activity."
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 31 of 51
47\. The sheet anchor of the case of the Petitioners is the decision of the
Constitution Bench in K Damodarasamy Naidu v. State of Tamil Nadu (supra)
whereas the Respondents rely extensively on the decision in Tamil Nadu Kalyana
Mandapam Association v. Union of India (supra). Both the said decisions
therefore require to be examined in some detail.
48\. In K Damodarasamy Naidu v. State of Tamil Nadu (supra) the Supreme Court
was examining the validity of Second 3-D of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax
Act 1959 which sought to levy sales tax on supply of food and drink in
restaurants. The contention was that since the transaction was a composite one
involving provision of service, the entire value of the transaction could not
be subject to sales tax. This contention was repelled by the Supreme Court. It
was observed:
> "9. The provisions of sub-clause (f) of clause (29-A) of Article 366 need to
> be analysed. Sub-clause (f) permits the States to impose a tax on the supply
> of food and drink. The supply can be by way of a service or as part of a
> service or it can be in any other manner whatsoever. The supply or service
> can be for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration. The
> words of sub-clause (f) have found place in the Sales Tax Acts of most
> States and, as we have seen, they have been used in the said Tamil Nadu Act.
> The tax, therefore, is on the supply of food or drink and it is not of
> relevance that the supply is by way of a service or as part of a service. In
> our view, therefore, the price that the customer pays for the supply of food
> in a restaurant cannot be split up as suggested by learned counsel. The
> supply of food by the restaurant- owner to the customer though it may be a
> part of the service that he renders by providing good furniture, furnishing
> and fixtures, linen, crockery and cutlery, music, a dance floor and a floor
> show, is what is the subject of the levy. The patron of a fancy restaurant
> who orders a plate of cheese sandwiches whose price is shown to be Rs.50 on
> the bill W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 32 of 51 of fare knows very well that
> the innate cost of the bread, butter, mustard and cheese in the plate is
> very much less, but he orders it all the same. He pays Rs.50 for its supply
> and it is on Rs.50 that the restaurant-owner must be taxed".
49\. The crucial sentence in the above passage is: "The tax, therefore, is on
the supply of food or drink and it is not of relevance that the supply is by
way of a service or as part of a service. In our view, therefore, the price
that the customer pays for the supply of food in a restaurant cannot be split
up as suggested by learned counsel." The Court was careful to emphasise that
the subject of the levy was supply of food and drink. The reluctance to
recognise the splitting of the transaction was with reference to the 'price'
paid for the transaction, which is understandable if the break-up was not
provided by the seller. This becomes even more evident when the following
sentence is read carefully. The Court observed: "The supply of food by the
restaurant-owner to the customer though it may be a part of the service that
he renders by providing good furniture, furnishing and fixtures, linen,
crockery and cutlery, music, a dance floor and a floor show, is what is the
subject of the levy." Thus it reiterated that the subject of the levy is "the
supply of food". The decision in K Damodarasamy Naidu (supra) did not engage
with the question whether the service element involved in the supply of food
and drink would be amenable to service tax. The only question was whether the
entire transaction was exigible to sales tax even where the supply of food and
drink was in the course of providing a service and that question that was
answered in the affirmative. The Court is, therefore, of the considered view
that the decision in K Damodarasamy Naidu (supra) is not an authority for
proposition that in a catering contract, which is W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011
Page 33 of 51 admittedly a composite contract, the service portion thereof
cannot be made exigible to service tax levied by a Union legislation.
50\. In the context of a catering contract, there is no overlapping as such
between Entry 54 of List II which relates to tax on sale and purchase of goods
and has to be read with Article 366 Clause 29A(f) and Entry 97 of List I which
covers a tax on the service portion of such contract. The discernment of the
service portion of a composite catering contract, different from the portion
pertaining to supply of goods, is theoretically possible to be explained when
the 'aspect doctrine' is applied. In Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Assn. of
India v. Union of India, (1989) 3 SCC 634 a Constitution Bench of the Supreme
Court observed:
> "31. Indeed, the law "with respect to" a subject might incidentally "affect"
> another subject in some way; but that is not the same thing as the law being
> on the latter subject. There might be overlapping; but the overlapping must
> be in law. The same transaction may involve two or more taxable events in
> its different aspects. But the fact that there is an overlapping does not
> detract from the distinctiveness of the aspects. Lord Simonds in Governor
> General-in-Council v. Province of Madras AIR 1945 PC 98 in the context of
> concepts of Duties of Excise and Tax on Sale of Goods said:
> "... The two taxes, the one levied on a manufacturer in respect of his
> goods, the other on a vendor in respect of, his sales, may, as is there
> pointed out, in one sense overlap. But in law there is no overlapping. The
> taxes are separated and distinct imposts. If in fact they overlap, that may
> be because the taxing authority, imposing a duty of excise, finds it
> convenient to impose that duty at the moment when the excisable article
> leaves the factory or workshop for the first time on the occasion of its
> sale...."
> 32\. Referring to the "aspect" doctrine Laskin‟s Canadian Constitutional Law
> states:
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 34 of 51
> "The „aspect‟ doctrine bears some resemblance to those just noted but,
> unlike them, deals not with what the „matter‟ is but with what it „comes
> within‟.... (p. 115) ... it applies where some of the constitutive elements
> about whose combination the statute is concerned (that is, they are its
> „matter‟), are a kind most often met with in connection with one class of
> subjects and others are of a kind mostly dealt with in connection with
> another. As in the case of a pocket gadget compactly assembling knife blade,
> screwdriver, fishscaler, nailfile, etc., a description of it must mention
> everything but in characterising it the particular use proposed to be made
> of it determines what it is. (p. 116) "... I pause to comment on certain
> correlations of operative incompatibility and the „aspect‟ doctrine. Both
> grapple with the issues arising from the composite nature of a statute, one
> as regards the preclusory impact of federal law on provincial measures
> bearing on constituents of federally regulated conduct, the other to
> identify what parts of the whole making up a „matter‟ bring it within a
> class of subjects...." (p. 117)
51\. The aspect doctrine was highlighted by the Supreme Court in the context
of levy of service tax on the service portion of leasing and financing
transactions in Association of Leasing Financial Service Companies v. Union of
India (supra) as under:
> "30. .....The object behind enactment of Article 366(29A) is to tax the
> composite price so that the full value of the hire-purchase price is taxed
> and to avoid the judgment in K.L. Johar's case whose implication was to
> narrow the tax base resulting in seepage of sales tax revenue. It is in that
> sense "splitting" of the contract needs to be understood. Thus, it cannot be
> said that Parliament divested itself of the power to levy service tax vide
> enactment of the Constitution (Forty-sixth Amendment) Act. Even in the
> Report of the Law Commission, it has been observed that "if a hire-purchase
> transaction W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 35 of 51 results in a sale, sales-
> tax is undoubtedly leviable by the States. No doubt, it is difficult to
> determine the "sale price" for the purpose of the sales tax law but this has
> no bearing on the question of legislative competence"
52\. Turning now to the main plank of the Respondents' case, it is noticed
that the service component of an outdoor catering contract was again
emphasised in Tamil Nadu Kalyana Mandapam Association v. Union of India
(supra) in the following passage:
> "43. In regard to the submission made on Article 366(29A) (f), we are of the
> view that it does not provide to the contrary. It only permits the State to
> impose a tax on the supply of food and drink by whatever mode it may be
> made. It does not conceptually or otherwise includes the supply to services
> within the definition of sale and purchase of goods. This is particularly
> apparent from the following phrase contained in the said sub-article "such
> transfer, delivery or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of
> those goods." In other words, the operative words of the said sub-article is
> supply of goods and it is only supply of food and drinks and other articles
> for human consumption that is deemed to be a sale or purchase of goods.
> 44\. The concept of catering admittedly includes the concept of rendering
> service. The fact that tax on the sale of the goods involved in the said
> service can be levied does not mean that a service tax cannot be levied on
> the service aspect of catering."
53\. Mr. Venkataraman, tried to distinguish the above decision in Tamil Nadu
Kalyana Mandapam Association by pointing out that the question there arose in
a different context. He relied on the following passage in the decision to
urge that there was a difference between the provision of outdoor catering
service in a Mandapam and the supply of food and drinks in a restaurant:
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 36 of 51
> "55. ... A customer goes to a mandap-keeper, say a star hotel, not merely
> for the food that they will provide but for the entire variety of services
> provided therein which result in providing the function to be solemnized
> with the required effect and ambience. Similarly the services rendered by
> outdoor caterers is clearly distinguishable from the service rendered in a
> restaurant or hotel inasmuch as, in the case of outdoor catering service the
> food/eatables/drinks are the choice of the person who partakes the services.
> He is free to choose the kind, quantum and manner in which the food is to be
> served. But in the case of restaurant, the customer's choice of foods is
> limited to the menu card. Again in the case of outdoor catering, customer is
> at liberty to choose the time and place where the food is to be served. In
> the case of an outdoor caterer, the customer negotiates each element of the
> catering service, including the price to be paid to the caterer. Outdoor
> catering has an element of personalized service provided to the customer.
> Clearly the service element is more weighty, visible and predominant in the
> case of outdoor catering. It cannot be considered as a case of sale of food
> and drink as in restaurant. Though the Service Tax is leviable on the gross
> amount charged by the mandap- keeper for services in relation to the use of
> a mandap and also on the charges for catering, the Government has decided to
> charge the same only on 60% of the gross amount charged by the mandap-keeper
> to the customer."
54\. The Court is unable to agree with the above submission of Mr.
Venkataraman. While the Court in the above passage seeks to distinguish the
services rendered by outdoor restaurant from the services rendered in a
restaurant and points out that in outdoor catering there is an element of
personalized service, it in no way suggests that there is no service element
involved in the supply of food and drinks in a restaurant. In fact as the
Court reads the decision two specific issues were addressed as evident from
the following passage:
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 37 of 51
> "39. In the present case, service tax levied on services rendered by mandap-
> keeper as defined in the said Act under Sections 65, 66 and 67 of the
> Finance Act has been challenged by the appellants on the following two
> grounds:
> (a) that it amounts to a tax on land and, therefore, by reason of Entry 49
> of List 2 in of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, only the State
> Government is competent to levy such tax; and
> (b) insofar as it levies a tax on catering services, it amounts to a tax on
> sale and purchase of goods and, therefore, is beyond the competence of
> Parliament, particularly in view of the definition of tax on sale and
> purchase of goods contained in Article 366(29-A)(f) of the Constitution."
55\. Therefore, the question whether in the context of Article 366 (29A) (f)
of the Constitution the service portion of a composite catering contract can
be made exigible to service tax was squarely in issue. This becomes clear when
one refers to para 57 of the said judgment which reads as under:
> "A tax on services rendered by mandap-keepers and outdoor caterers is in
> pith and substance, a tax on services and not a tax on sale of goods or on
> hire purchase activities. Section 65 clause 41 sub clause (p) of the Finance
> Act, 1994, defines the taxable service (which is the subject matter of levy
> of service tax) as any service provided to a customer by a mandap-keeper in
> relation to use of a mandap in any manner including the facilities provided
> to a customer in relation to such use also the services, if any, rendered as
> a caterer. The nature and character of this service tax is evident from the
> fact that the transaction between a mandap-keeper and his customer is
> definitely not in the nature of a sale of hire purchase of goods. It is
> essentially that of providing a service. In fact, as pointed out earlier,
> the manner of service provided assumes predominance over the providing of
> food in such situations which is a definite indicator of the supremacy of
> the service aspect. The legislature in its wisdom noticed the said supremacy
> and identified the same as a potential region to collect indirect taxes.
> Moreover, it has been a well established judicial principle that so long as
> the legislation W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 38 of 51 is in substance, on a
> matter assigned to a legislature enacting that statute, it must be held
> valid in its entirety even though it may trench upon matters beyond its
> competence. Incidental encroachment does not invalidate such a statute on
> the grounds that it is beyond the competence of the legislature (Prafulla
> Kumar vs. Bank of Commerce). Article 246(1) of the Constitution specifies
> that the Parliament has exclusive powers to make laws with respect to any of
> the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the
> Constitution. As per Article 246(3), the State Government has exclusive
> powers to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List II (State
> List). In respect of matters enumerated in List III (Concurrent List) both
> Parliament and State Government have powers to make laws. The service tax is
> made by Parliament under the above residuary powers."
56\. The Supreme Court applied pith and substance doctrine and concluded that
"the manner of service provided assumes predominance over the providing of
food in such situations which is a definite indicator of the supremacy of the
service aspect." For good measure the Supreme Court held: "The concept of
catering admittedly includes the concept of rendering service. The fact that
tax on the sale of the goods involved in the said service can be levied does
not mean that a service tax cannot be levied on the service aspect of
catering." What the decision therefore does is to highlight the possibility of
splitting up of the composite transaction into the provision of service
element and the supply of food. The Respondents are justified in contending
that as far as the interpretation of Article 366 (29A) (f) of the Constitution
is concerned, the decision in Tamil Nadu Kalyana Mandapam Association v. Union
of India (supra) fully supports their stand.
57\. It may be noticed at this stage that even though the issue in point was
not centrally in issue in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited v. Union of India
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 39 of 51 (supra) the Supreme Court analysed the
various clauses of Article 366 (29- A) and observed inter alia, that "
> " ....Clause (f) pertains to contracts which had been held not to amount to
> sale in State of Punjab vs. M/s. Associated Hotels of India Ltd. (supra).
> That decision has by this clause been effectively legislatively invalidated.
> All the clauses of Article 366 (29A) serve to bring transactions where one
> or more of the essential ingredients of a sale as defined in the Sale of
> Goods Act 1930 are absent, within the ambit of purchase and sales for the
> purposes of levy of sales tax. To this extent only is the principle
> enunciated in Gannon Dunkerly limited. The amendment especially allows
> specific composite contracts viz. works contracts (Clause (b)), hire
> purchase contracts (Clause (c)), catering contracts (Clause (e)) by legal
> fiction to be divisible contracts where the sale element could be isolated
> and be subjected to sales tax.
> Gannon Dunkerley survived the 46th Constitutional Amendment in two respects.
> First with regard to the definition of 'sale' for the purposes of the
> Constitution in general and for the purposes of Entry 54 of List II in
> particular except to the extent that the clauses in Art. 366(29A)operate. By
> introducing separate categories of 'deemed sales', the meaning of the word
> 'goods' was not altered. Thus the definitions of the composite elements of a
> sale such as intention of the parties, goods, delivery etc. would continue
> to be defined according to known legal connotations. This does not mean that
> the content of the concepts remains static. Courts must move with the times.
> But the 46th Amendment does not give a licence for example to assume that a
> transaction is a sale and then to look around for what could be the goods.
> The word "goods" has not been altered by the 46th Amendment. That ingredient
> of a sale continues to have the same definition. The second respect in which
> Gannon Dunkerley has survived is with reference to the dominant nature test
> to be applied to a composite transaction not covered by Article
> 366(29A).Transactions which are mutant sales are limited to the clauses of
> Article 366(29A). All other transactions would have to qualify as sales
> within the meaning of Sales of Goods Act 1930 for the purpose of levy of
> W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 40 of 51 sales tax. Of all the different kinds
> of composite transactions the drafters of the 46th Amendment chose three
> specific situations, a works contract, a hire purchase contract and a
> catering contract to bring within the fiction of a deemed sale. Of these
> three, the first and third involve a kind of service and sale at the same
> time. Apart from these two cases where splitting of the service and supply
> has been Constitutionally permitted in clauses (b) and (g) of Clause 29A of
> Art. 366, there is no other service which has been permitted to be so
> split." (emphasis supplied)
58\. The Parliament has further made the legal position explicit by inserting
Section 66 E (i) of the FA read as it were with Section 65 (22) and 65 (44) of
the FA. It states that the "service portion in an activity wherein goods,
being food or any other article of human consumption or any drink (whether or
not intoxicating) is supplied in any manner as a part of the activity" is a
'declared' service. The legislative carving out of the service portion of the
composite contract of supply of food and drinks has sound constitutional basis
as explained in the aforementioned decisions of the Supreme Court. Even if
this is viewed as Parliament deploying a legal fiction, it is legally
permissible. In State of U.P. v. Hari Ram (2013) 4 SCC 280 it was held:
> "18. The legislature is competent to create a legal fiction, for the purpose
> of assuming existence of a fact which does not really exist. ... In
> interpreting the provision creating a legal fiction, the court is to
> ascertain for what purpose the fiction is created and after ascertaining
> this, the court is to assume all those facts and consequences which are
> incidental or inevitable corollaries to the giving effect to the fiction."
59\. Thus it is not possible to accept the contention of the Petitioners that
Parliament lacks the legislative competence to enact Section 65 (105) (zzzzv)
of the FA with a view to bringing the service component of the composite
contract of supply of food and drinks by an air-conditioned W.P.(C) No. 6482
of 2011 Page 41 of 51 restaurant within the service tax net.
60\. Next the challenge to Rule 2-C of the 2006 Rules requires to be examined.
The case of the Petitioners is that the said rule is bad in law as it
arbitrarily attributes 40% of the value of the composite contract of supply of
food and drinks to the service component. The legal basis for this challenge
is to be found in the following passage in Govind Saran Ganga Saran v. CST
1985 Supp SCC 205:
> "6. The components which enter into the concept of a tax are well known. The
> first is the character of the imposition known by its nature which
> prescribes the taxable event attracting the levy, the second is a clear
> indication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and who is obliged to
> pay the tax, the third is the rate at which the tax is imposed, and the
> fourth is the measure or value to which the rate will be applied for
> computing the tax liability. If those components are not clearly and
> definitely ascertainable, it is difficult to say that the levy exists in
> point of law. Any certainty or vagueness in the legislative scheme defining
> any of those components of the levy will be fatal to its validity."
61\. What Rule 2C does is to enable the assessing authority to put a definite
value to the service portion of the composite contract of supply of goods and
services in an air-conditioned restaurant. Correspondingly there is an
abatement for that portion which pertains to the supply of goods in the form
of food and drink which would be amenable to sales tax or value added tax. As
rightly pointed out by learned counsel for the Respondent that such grant of
abatement has the approval by the Supreme Court in Association of Leasing &
Financial Service Companies v. Union of India (supra) wherein the abatement
was 90% and the standard rate of service tax was applied on W.P.(C) No. 6482
of 2011 Page 42 of 51 @ 10% of the cost of the leasing transaction which
approximately represented the service element. It also requires to be kept in
mind that the ready reckoner formula is useful where an assessee does not
maintain accounts in a manner that will enable the assessing authority to
clearly discern the value of the service portion of the composite contract. It
hardly needs emphasis that when during the course of assessment proceedings an
assessee is able to demonstrate, on the basis of the accounts and records
maintained by it for that purpose, that the value of the service component is
different from that obtained by applying Rule 2C the assessing authority would
be obliged to consider such submission and give a decision thereon. With the
machinery provision for the levy and determination of service tax on the
service portion clearly being spelt out in the Rules themselves, the legal
requisites highlighted in Govind Saran Ganga Saran v. CST (supra) stand
satisfied.
62\. Indeed a perusal of one of the bills produced by the Petitioners
themselves reveals that of the total sale of food for Rs. 2300, food tax (i.e.
VAT) is levied @ 12.5% and works out to Rs. 287.50, service tax is @ 4.94%
which works out to Rs. 113.71. An abatement has been provided in the rate of
service tax. Where the service tax should be @ 12.36% it is, after abatement,
4.94%. Therefore it is not right that the measure of tax is the same. This is
notwithstanding the settled legal position that value of taxable service is
not determinative of the character of the levy. In Association of Leasing &
Financial Service Companies v. Union of India (supra) the Supreme Court
observed:
> "45 (i) The measure of taxation does not affect the nature of taxation
> W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 43 of 51 and, therefore, the manner of
> quantification of the levy of service tax has no bearing on the factum of
> legislative competence."
63\. For all the aforementioned reasons, the Court upholds the constitutional
validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) and Section 66 E (i) of the FA read with
Section 65 (22) and 65 (44) thereof and Rule 2 C of the 2006 Rules 2006.
Challenge to the validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA
64\. Turning now to the challenge to Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA by
which the service tax is sought to be levied on short-term accommodation
provided in a hotel, it must be noticed at the outset that main contention of
the Petitioners is that levy of tax on luxuries as contemplated under Article
246 read with Entry 62 of List II (State List) of the Constitution entirely
covers the field and therefore, Parliament lacks the legislative competence to
levy such service tax.
65\. To test the above submission it requires to be examined if indeed the
Petitioners may be right in their contentions when the definition of „luxury‟
is examined. Since the Petitioners are based in Delhi, the Court proposes to
examine the relevant legislation applicable in the National Capital territory
of Delhi.
66\. Under Section 2 (i) of the Delhi Tax Luxuries Act, 1996 ('DTL Act'), the
expression "luxury provided in a hotel" is defined to mean "accommodation and
other services provided in a hotel, the rate or charges for which including
the charges for air-conditioning, telephone, radio, music, extra beds and the
like, is five hundred rupees per room per day or more; but does not include
the supply of food, drinks or other services which is separately W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 44 of 51 charged for." Section 3 (1) of the DTL Act is the
charging section which states: "Subject to the provisions of this Act and the
rules made thereunder there shall be levied a tax on the turnover of receipts
of a hotelier." The expression "turnover of receipts" has been defined in
Section 2 (r) of the DTL Act to mean" the aggregate amounts of valuable
consideration received or receivable by a hotelier or by his agent in respect
of the luxuries provided in a hotel in a given period." The expression "hotel"
has been defined in Section 2 (g) of the DTL Act to include "a residential
accommodation, a lodging house, an inn, a club, a resort, a farm house, a
public house or a building or a part of a building where a residential
accommodation is provided by way of a business."
67\. Turning to Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA it contemplates a service
provided "to any person by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or camp-site by
whatever name called, for providing of accommodation for a continuous period
of less than three months." When the above definition is placed alongside the
above extracted provisions of the DTL Act, it is difficult to discern any real
difference in the subject matter of the two levies. In other words, what is
defined under the DTL Act of 1996 is an identical service of providing
accommodation in a hotel. The only additional pre-fix in the FA is the
hyphenated word "short-term" in Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) followed by the
expression "for a period of less than three months". However, such provision
of short-term accommodation of less than three months is by no means exempt
from luxury tax under the DTL Act. The very same taxable event of providing
service by way of accommodation in a hotel etc. is the W.P.(C) No. 6482 of
2011 Page 45 of 51 subject matter of both levies viz., luxury tax under the
DTL Act and service tax under the FA.
68\. Consequently Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA fails the foremost test
of constitutionality of a Union tax as highlighted in International Tourist
Corporation v. State of Haryana (supra) that "[b]efore exclusive legislative
competence can be claimed for Parliament by resort to the residuary power, the
legislative incompetence of the State legislative must be clearly
established." Here the DTL Act which provides for levy of luxury tax on
provision of the service of accommodation in a hotel etc. is traceable to
Entry 62 of List II and the State is therefore competent to levy and collect
luxury tax on such taxable event.
69\. In Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. State of U.P., (2005) 2 SCC 515, the
Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court considered at length the meaning of
term 'luxuries' in Entry 62 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution. The exercise was undertaken in the context of the challenge laid
to State legislations seeking to levy tax on luxury goods or articles. Holding
that the levies were invalid as they could not, with respect to that entry, be
on luxury 'articles' the Court observed as under:
> "68. ... The juxtaposition of the different taxes within Entry 62 itself is
> in our view of particular significance. The entry speaks of "taxes on
> luxuries including taxes on entertainments, amusements, betting and
> gambling". The word "including" must be given some meaning. In ordinary
> parlance it indicates that what follows the word "including" comprises or is
> contained in or is a part of the whole of the word preceding. The nature of
> the included items would not only partake of the character of the whole, but
> may be construed as clarificatory of the whole.
W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 46 of 51
> 69\. It has also been held that the word "includes" may in certain contexts
> be a word of limitation [South Gujarat Roofing Tiles Manufacturers Assn. v.
> State of Gujarat (1976) 4 SCC 601]. In the context of Entry 62 of List II
> this would not mean that the word "luxuries" would be restricted to
> entertainments, amusements, betting and gambling but would only emphasise
> the attribute which is common to the group. If luxuries is understood as
> meaning something which is purely for enjoyment and beyond the necessities
> of life, there can be no doubt that entertainments, amusements, betting and
> gambling would come within such understanding. Additionally, entertainments,
> amusements, betting and gambling are all activities. "Luxuries" is also
> capable of meaning an activity and has primarily and traditionally been
> defined as such. It is only derivatively and recently used to connote an
> article of luxury. One can assume that the coupling of these taxes under one
> entry was not fortuitous but because of these common characteristics.
> ...
> 77\. Hence on an application of general principles of interpretation, we
> would hold that the word "luxuries" in Entry 62 of List II means the
> activity of enjoyment of or indulgence in that which is costly or which is
> generally recognised as being beyond the necessary requirements of an
> average member of society and not articles of luxury."
70\. The above decision is significant for recognising the term 'luxury' to
not mean luxury articles or goods but the 'activity of enjoyment'. In this
context the following observations of the Supreme Court in Assn. of Leasing &
Financial Service Companies v. Union of India, (2011) 2 SCC 352 are relevant:
> "38. In All-India Federation of Tax Practitioners case (2007) 7 SCC 527 this
> Court explained the concept of service tax and held that service tax is a
> value added tax ("VAT", for short) which in turn is a destination based
> consumption tax in the sense that it is levied on commercial activities and
> it is not a charge on the business but on the consumer. That, service tax is
> an economic concept based on the principle of equivalence in a sense that
> consumption of goods and W.P.(C) No. 6482 of 2011 Page 47 of 51 consumption
> of services are similar as they both satisfy human needs. Today with the
> technological advancement there is a very thin line which divides a "sale"
> from "service". That, applying the principle of equivalence, there is no
> difference between production or manufacture of saleable goods and
> production of marketable/saleable services in the form of an activity
> undertaken by the service provider for consideration, which correspondingly
> stands consumed by the service receiver. It is this principle of equivalence
> which is inbuilt into the concept of service tax under the Finance Act,
> 1994. That service tax is, therefore, a tax on an activity. That, service
> tax is a value added tax."
71\. In the counter affidavit filed by the Respondent, it is simply asserted
that service tax is a levy that is distinct from luxury tax levied by the
States. But the basis for this assertion is not set out. On the other hand,
while seeking to explain the exemption granted to rooms with a tariff of less
than Rs. 1000 per day, reference is made to the threshold limits fixed in the
luxuries tax legislation of the States like for e.g., Maharashtra and Delhi.
It is, therefore, plain that there is not merely an overlap of luxury tax and
service tax as far as accommodation provided in hotels is concerned. It is in
fact the same levy but by different statutes: one enacted by the State and the
other by the Union. This is indeed an instance of encroachment by the Union
into a field that is completely covered by a State legislation.
72\. The following observations of the Supreme Court in Imagic Creative Ltd.
v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (supra) in the context of VAT and service
tax would equally apply to a situation where luxury tax and service tax are
sought to be levied on the same taxable event:
> "32. Payments of service tax as also VAT are mutually exclusive. Therefore,
> they should be held to be applicable having regard to the respective
> parameters of service tax and the sales tax as envisaged in a W.P.(C) No.
> 6482 of 2011 Page 48 of 51 composite contract as contradistinguished from an
> indivisible contract."
73\. The levy of service tax on short-term accommodation fails on other
respects too. Significantly, the 2006 Rules do not provide the machinery for
levy and collection of tax on accommodation. Even the rebate provided on the
basis of the room tariff is not engrafted into the 2006 Rules. While Rule 2C
provides the basis for determining the value of services for the purposes of
Section 65 (105) (zzzzv), there is no corresponding provision for determining
the value of the service in the case of Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA. In
other words there is no machinery for the computation of the taxable value of
the service of providing accommodation. In Commissioner of Income Tax v. B. C.
Srinivasa Setty AIR 1981 SC 972 in the context of the absence of a machinery
provision for computation of tax on goodwill, in the context of Section 45 of
the Income Tax Act 1961, for the it was observed:
> "The character of the computation provisions in each case bears a
> relationship to the nature of the charge. Thus the charging section and the
> computation provisions together constitute an integrated code. When there is
> a case to which the computation provisions cannot apply at all, it is
> evident that such a case was not intended to fall within the charging
> section. Otherwise one would be driven to conclude that while a certain
> income seems to fall within the charging section there is no scheme of
> computation for quantifying it."
74\. The exemption from service tax on the provision of accommodation for a
room having a declared tariff of less than Rs. 1,000 per day or equivalent is
by Notification No. 12/2012 dated 17th March 2012. This is not provided in the
Act or the Rules. In Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs, Kerala v.
Larsen and Toubro Ltd. (2016) 1 SCC 170, the Supreme Court W.P.(C) No. 6482 of
2011 Page 49 of 51 affirmed the decision of the Orissa High Court in Larsen
and Toubro Ltd. v. State of Orissa (2008) 12 VST 31 to the effect that the
machinery provisions for levy of the tax could not be provided by instructions
and circulars. It was held by the Orissa High Court that "It is a well-settled
principle that in matters of taxation either the statute or the Rules framed
under the statute must cover the entire field. Taxation by way of
administrative instructions which are not backed by any authority of law is
unreasonable and is contrary to article 265 of the Constitution of India."
75\. Consequently, the Court is satisfied that the provision of short-term
accommodation in hotels etc. envisaged in Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the FA
read with Section 65 (44) of the FA is a taxable event that is entirely
covered by the term 'luxuries' in Entry 62 of List II of the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution and therefore outside the legislative competence of
Parliament.
76\. Before concluding the Court would like to observe that it has refrained
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
78\. The writ petition is disposed of in the above terms but, in the facts and
circumstances, with no orders as to costs.
S. MURALIDHAR, J NAJMI WAZIRI, J AUGUST 12, 2016 dn/mg W.P.(C) No. 6482 of
2011 Page 51 of 51
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
            JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
                               JUDGMENT
% Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.:
1.1 The challenge in this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India is to the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the
Finance Act 1994 (FA) whereby the provision to any person by a restaurant, by
having the facility of air-conditioning in any part of its establishment
serving food or beverage, including alcoholic beverages or both, in its
premises has been made amenable to service tax. Also challenged is the W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 1 of 51 constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)
(zzzzw) of the FA whereby the provision by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or
camp-site by whatever name called to any provision, accommodation for a
continuous period of less than three months has been made amenable to service
tax.
1.2 The additional prayers in the writ petition are for a declaration that
Section 66 E (i) of the FA to the extent it seeks to constitute a service
portion in an activity of supply of food or other articles as „declared
service‟ to be bad in law. The Petitioners seek a declaration that Rule 2C of
the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 is invalid.
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
            JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
                               JUDGMENT
% Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.:
1.1 The challenge in this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India is to the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the
Finance Act 1994 (FA) whereby the provision to any person by a restaurant, by
having the facility of air-conditioning in any part of its establishment
serving food or beverage, including alcoholic beverages or both, in its
premises has been made amenable to service tax. Also challenged is the W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 1 of 51 constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)
(zzzzw) of the FA whereby the provision by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or
camp-site by whatever name called to any provision, accommodation for a
continuous period of less than three months has been made amenable to service
tax.
1.2 The additional prayers in the writ petition are for a declaration that
Section 66 E (i) of the FA to the extent it seeks to constitute a service
portion in an activity of supply of food or other articles as „declared
service‟ to be bad in law. The Petitioners seek a declaration that Rule 2C of
the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 is invalid.
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
            JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
                               JUDGMENT
% Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.:
1.1 The challenge in this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India is to the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the
Finance Act 1994 (FA) whereby the provision to any person by a restaurant, by
having the facility of air-conditioning in any part of its establishment
serving food or beverage, including alcoholic beverages or both, in its
premises has been made amenable to service tax. Also challenged is the W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 1 of 51 constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)
(zzzzw) of the FA whereby the provision by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or
camp-site by whatever name called to any provision, accommodation for a
continuous period of less than three months has been made amenable to service
tax.
1.2 The additional prayers in the writ petition are for a declaration that
Section 66 E (i) of the FA to the extent it seeks to constitute a service
portion in an activity of supply of food or other articles as „declared
service‟ to be bad in law. The Petitioners seek a declaration that Rule 2C of
the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 is invalid.
Profile of the Petitioners 2.1 Petitioner No.1 is the Federation of Hotels and
Restaurants Association of India, a registered association whose members are a
number of hotels spread all over the country. Petitioner No.2, the Leela
Palace, Chanakya Puri, New Delhi is a unit of Hotel Leela Venture Limited
which runs 5-star hotels all over the country. Petitioner No.3 is Rodeo, a
restaurant which is part of the chain operating in the National Capital
Territory of Delhi.
2.2 Several members of the Petitioner No.1 Association run hotels which
provide both lodging and meals to the residents. They also operate air-
conditioned restaurants where meals are served to non-residents and casual
visitors. Many of the hotels have licence to serve liquors in such
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
            JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
            JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
                               JUDGMENT
% Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.:
1.1 The challenge in this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India is to the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105) (zzzzv) of the
Finance Act 1994 (FA) whereby the provision to any person by a restaurant, by
having the facility of air-conditioning in any part of its establishment
serving food or beverage, including alcoholic beverages or both, in its
premises has been made amenable to service tax. Also challenged is the W.P.(C)
No. 6482 of 2011 Page 1 of 51 constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)
(zzzzw) of the FA whereby the provision by a hotel, inn, guest house, club or
camp-site by whatever name called to any provision, accommodation for a
continuous period of less than three months has been made amenable to service
tax.
1.2 The additional prayers in the writ petition are for a declaration that
Section 66 E (i) of the FA to the extent it seeks to constitute a service
portion in an activity of supply of food or other articles as „declared
service‟ to be bad in law. The Petitioners seek a declaration that Rule 2C of
the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 is invalid.
Profile of the Petitioners 2.1 Petitioner No.1 is the Federation of Hotels and
Restaurants Association of India, a registered association whose members are a
number of hotels spread all over the country. Petitioner No.2, the Leela
Palace, Chanakya Puri, New Delhi is a unit of Hotel Leela Venture Limited
which runs 5-star hotels all over the country. Petitioner No.3 is Rodeo, a
restaurant which is part of the chain operating in the National Capital
Territory of Delhi.
2.2 Several members of the Petitioner No.1 Association run hotels which
provide both lodging and meals to the residents. They also operate air-
conditioned restaurants where meals are served to non-residents and casual
visitors. Many of the hotels have licence to serve liquors in such
from discussing the decisions of the other High Courts which have taken a view
on the issues involved herein since at least three of those decisions i.e.,
the decisions of the Division Benches of the Kerala High Court in Union of
India v. Kerala Hotel Association (supra), the Bombay High Court in Indian
Hotels and Restaurant Association v. Union of India (supra) and the Karnataka
High Court in Ballal Auto Agency v. Union of India (supra) are subject matter
of pending appeals in the Supreme Court. Conclusions
77\. The Court accordingly:
(i) upholds the constitutional validity of Section 65 (105)(zzzzv) read with
Section 66E (i), Section 65 (22) of the Finance Act 1994 as well W.P.(C) No.
6482 of 2011 Page 50 of 51 as Rule 2C of the Service Tax (Determination of
Value) Rules, 2006;
(ii) strikes down Section 65 (105) (zzzzw) of the Finance Act 1994 pertaining
to levy of service tax on the provision of short-term accommodation and the
corresponding instructions/circulars seeking to operationalise the levy as
unconstitutional and invalid.
