Delhi High Court
M/S Bharat Biotech International ... vs Optival Health Solutions Pvt. ... on
26 May, 2020
          IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                             Judgment delivered on: May 26, 2020
    +     CS(COMM) 1248/2018 & IAs. 16073/2018, 16074/2018 and
          1997/2019
          M/S BHARAT BIOTECH INTERNATIONAL
          LTD.                                               ..... Plaintiff
                          Through: Mr.Sudhir Chandra, Sr. Adv. with
                                   Mr.Sughosh S. N., Mr. Vipin Nair,
                                   Mr.P. B. Suresh and Mr.Karthik
                                   Jayashankar and Ms.Pracheta Kaur,
                                   Advs.
                   versus
          OPTIVAL HEALTH SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD.
          & ANR.                                         ..... Defendants
                          Through: Mr. Yogesh Raavi and Ms. Snigdha
                                   Singh, Advs. for D-1.
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
                                   Anusuya Nigam and Ms.Vrinda
                                   Pathak, Advs. for D-2
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. KAMESWAR RAO
                                JUDGMENT
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J I.A. 16073/2018
1\. By this order I shall decide this application filed by the plaintiff under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of CPC seeking interim
injunction against the defendants.
2\. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent injunction against
the defendants seeking restraint order from  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 1 of 62
infringing its trade marks, passing off, rendition of accounts / damages and
delivery up etc.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is one of the leading manufacturer
of the specialized vaccines and bio-therapeutics in India with significant
presence both in India and abroad. It has a history of creating innovative
vaccines. The manufacturing facilities of the plaintiff are approved by the
regulatory agencies in India and abroad and are also approved by the World
Health Organization. The plaintiff has honestly coined the trade mark 'TCV'
and 'Typbar-TCV' in the year 2012 in relation to a revolutionary vaccine
product for Typhoid treatment, then under development by the plaintiff. Both
of the said trade marks are registered in India under Trade Marks Act, 1999
('Trade Marks Act', in short) and have been in continuous and uninterrupted
use since May, 2012. The details of the registration of the trade marks are as
under:
      a)    Trademark           :      TCV
            Registration No.    :      2291745
            Valid upto          :      28.02.2022
            Class               :      5
            Goods               :      Vaccine formulations,
                                       Typhoid conjugated        vaccine
                                       formulations
    CS(COMM) 1248/2018                           Page 2 of 62
          b)      Trademark           :      Typbar-TCV
                 Registration No.    :      2291743
                 Valid upto          :      28.02.2022
                 Class               :      5
                 Goods               :      Vaccine formulations
It is averred that both the registrations are valid and subsisting.
4\. The plaintiff's trade mark 'TCV' is registered in Saudi Arabia and Jordan
and is expected for registration in Nigeria. Similarly, the plaintiff's trade
mark 'Typbar-TCV has been registered in Saudi Arabia and Jordan and has been
accepted for registration in Vietnam and Nigeria. The vaccine of the plaintiff
has been widely sold throughout in India since 2013-2014 and is recognized as
a premier product for treatment of Typhoid. As per the plaintiff, the revenue
in 2017-2018 alone was INR 108.82 Crores. The plaintiff is actively and
diligently monitoring any misuse of its aforesaid trade marks. To quote an
example, it is averred that the plaintiff on coming to know of the filing of
trade mark application bearing no. 2091888 for 'SCION TCV' by a third party,
immediately initiated an opposition proceedings before the Trade Mark Registry
on July 20, 2018.
5\. It is the case of the plaintiff, based on the information received, the
defendant No.1 is a corporate entity with offices pan-  CS(COMM) 1248/2018
Page 3 of 62 India including Delhi, and appears to be in the business of
hosting and operating an interactive website www.medplusmart.com, where
pharmaceutical products are actively offered for sale across India including
the products bearing the infringing trade marks. The plaintiff is not aware of
the exact composition of the defendant No.1 which will become known only after
discovery in the present proceedings.
6\. It is averred that in the second week of October, 2018, the plaintiff
learnt through market sources including its distributors that defendant No.2
had actively commenced promoting a competing vaccine product for Typhoid
infection which was similar if not identical in composition to the plaintiff's
conjugated vaccine product. Plaintiff immediately undertook market
surveillance and proceeded to cause searches to be made through the internet
as well, to determine the authenticity of such information and to determine if
any violation of its intellectual property rights was involved. During such
enquiry, a website was located which claimed to offer a Typhoid vaccine named
'ZYVAC-TCV' purportedly manufactured by defendant No.2. The product was marked
as 'Out of Stock'. On further enquiry, plaintiff was informed that the product
of defendant No.2 was likely to be available within a few weeks all across
India  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 4 of 62 including New Delhi. It also located
promotional material distributed by defendant No.2 in India in relation to
this vaccine product. Such promotional material used the registered trade mark
'TCV' of the plaintiff in a manner that is bound to cause confusion amongst
the target audience, viz., healthcare professional who are accustomed to
identifying the vaccine of the plaintiff as 'TCV'. It is stated that the
likelihood of defendant No.2's product being passed off as 'TCV' of the
plaintiff is very high since the trade mark 'TCV' occupies a prominent
location and position in such promotional literature of defendant No.2. In
addition, defendant No.2 also uses the same reference 'ZYVAC-TCV' on its
website under the page titled 'Products'. It is averred that further searches
on the website of the Trade Mark Registry shows that the defendant No.2 has
apparently not filed any trade mark application for either 'ZYVAC-TCV' or even
for 'ZYVAC' per se. It is stated that defendant No.2 is slavishly copying not
only the registered trade mark 'TCV' of the plaintiff, but has also
dishonestly adopted the 'ZYVAC' part of its product name from third party
trade marks, including of Merck Sharpe & Dohme and Alan Pharmaceuticals.
Hence, it is contended that the launch of a Typhoid vaccine by defendant No.2
under the name 'ZYVAC-TCV' is a flagrant  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 5 of 62
infringement of the plaintiff's registered Trade Mark no. 2291745 for 'TCV'
inasmuch as this trade mark forms an inextricable part of the name adopted by
defendant No.2. Defendant No.1 is also guilty of infringement of said trade
mark 'TCV' inasmuch as it provides a channel for trade in products bearing the
infringing the trade mark, and within the jurisdiction of this court.
7\. It is the stand of the plaintiff that the use so far in publicizing, and
intended launch of a competing product with identical and / or deceptively
similar trade mark 'ZYVAC-TCV', is confusing and being in relation to
identical product category , it is inherently a misrepresentation to the
consuming public that the defendant No.2's product has an association with the
plaintiff and / or that such use of a trade mark is authorized by the
plaintiff, neither of which are true or correct. It is also stated that the
mala fides and dishonesty of defendants are amply clear from the fact that the
promotional material for 'ZYVAC-TCV' says 'for children of all ages', whereas
it is actually the plaintiff's vaccine, which was the first typhoid vaccine in
India which was approved for administration to infants and children below two
years. According to the plaintiff, given the worldwide reputation,
registrations, substantial continuous uninterrupted use, laudatory recognition
of the plaintiff, the trade  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 6 of 62 marks 'TCV' and
'Typbar-TCV' qualifies as well-known trade marks, which are associated with
the plaintiff and therefore deserves protection and the use of an identical
and deceptively similar mark by the defendants and in respect of identical
product category, viz. Typhoid vaccine takes unfair advantage and is
detrimental to or likely to dilute the distinctive character and repute of the
plaintiff's trade marks. That apart, the presence of the counterfeit products
of the defendant No.2 being deceptively similar to the plaintiff's product, is
prejudicial to the health of the typhoid patients who are typically from
economically disadvantaged sections of the society.
8\. Reply to the application has been filed by the defendant No.2 wherein it
is stated that defendant No.2 is not infringing the plaintiff's trade mark for
the reason that the defendant No.2's mark 'ZYVAC-TCV', when considered as a
whole is entirely different from the plaintiff's mark and the essential and
prominent feature of the defendant No.2's mark is 'ZYVAC'- which is a
combination of the words 'Zydus' and 'Vaccine'. Further, the Trade Mark 'TCV'
of the plaintiff is generic and descriptive of a category of vaccine called
'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine' and cannot acquire any distinctiveness through use
and is therefore not entitled to protection in law. That apart, the plaintiff
cannot claim to be the first adopter  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 7 of 62 of the
mark TCV and has concealed the fact that prior to the alleged adoption of its
mark in the year 2012, another entity had filed an application for the
registration of the mark TCV on June 24, 2009 claiming use since May 6, 2009.
The said application was in fact cited in the examination report of the
plaintiff's application for the mark 'TCV'. Hence, the plaintiff is clearly
not the creator nor prior user of the mark as alleged. It is stated that the
trade mark 'TCV' per se is not used by the plaintiff and no evidence has been
adduced to show use of the said mark. Even the abbreviation 'TCV' is not being
used in a trade mark sense by defendant No.2 in the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV'. The
defendant's mark 'ZYVAC-TCV' is a coined, original and arbitrary trade mark
and third parties are also using the mark 'TCV' in a descriptive sense as the
defendant No.2, and the same is permissible in law. It is stated that the
defendant No.2 is not passing off its product as that of the plaintiff and the
same is clear as (i) a comparison of the product packaging of the defendant
No.2's product with that of the plaintiff shows that there is no similarity
between the same; (2) no case of passing off is established by the plaintiff
as no evidence is forthcoming to prove the goodwill of the marks of the
plaintiff as the plaintiff has not even been using the mark 'TCV' per se. The
reply seeks the  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 8 of 62 dismissal of the application.
SUBMISSIONS
9\. Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned Sr. Counsel appearing for the plaintiff apart
from reiterating the stand taken in the application submitted that Typhoid,
caused by Salmonella Typhi (bacterium), is a major endemic disease in Asia,
Africa and Middle East, resulting in 1,28,000 - 1,61,000 deaths annually. The
disease burden is probably the highest in India, with 494 deaths for every one
lakh persons per year. The earlier types of vaccines available were (1)
Parenteral Killed Whole Cell Vaccine (2). Oral-live attenuated Vaccine; and
(3) Typhoid-Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Vaccine. According to him, due to the
fact that earlier generation vaccines were not producing immunization in
children, a need was felt for a new vaccine which can be given to young
children as well. In the year 2008, the plaintiff invented a bacterial vaccine
and methods to manufacture thereof the new generation of Typhoid Vaccine,
being 'Typhoid Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine',
for which the plaintiff acquired following patents:
    Patent   Country          Application        Date of       Granted            Date of   Status
     Title                     Number            Filing        Number              Grant
              PCT           PCT/IN2014/000530   19.08.2014    National phases entered in
                                                                  following countries:
               USA             14/913816        23.02.2016    10046039         14.08.2018    Grant
             Mexico         mx/a/2016/002386    24.02.2016      365726         11.06.2019    Grant
             South Africa     2016-01123        18.02.2016   2016-01123        18.02.2017    Grant
              Russia          2016110576        23.03.2016     2684615         10.04.2019    Grant
      CS(COMM) 1248/2018                                        Page 9 of 62
               EPO         2014841291   02.03.2016    14841291.9                  Notice of
                                                    notice of grant               Grant
                                                         dated
                                                      13.08.2019
             Ukraine      2016 02951   23.03.2016     Decision of               Decision of
                                                    grant issued on               Grant
                                                      24.04.2019
10\. It was his submission that the vaccine developed by the plaintiff has
been referred to in the industry as Typhoid Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Tetanus
Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine' / Typhoid Vi Conjugate Vaccine I.P. / ViP's -
TT'etc., therefore proving that the term 'TCV' was a creation of the
plaintiff. The aforesaid fact is clearly reflected from defendant No.2's
packaging which prescribes the vaccine differently as 'Typhoid Vi conjugate
Vaccine I.P.' on top of their mark whereas the plaintiff's brochure refers the
vaccine as 'Typhoid - Tetanus Toxoid Conjugated Vaccine'. Ever since May 17,
2013, plaintiff has been granted license for commercial manufacture of
'Typhoid Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine' in
India. The defendant No.2 was nowhere in the picture until April, 2018 by
which time the public had associated the vaccine as belonging and owned by the
plaintiff.
11\. It was further submitted that on February 29, 2012, the plaintiff had
applied for the registration of the two trade marks 'TYPBAR-TCV' (TM
Application No. 2291743) and 'TCV' (TM Application No. 2291745), separately,
both in Class-5, covering  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 10 of 62 vaccine
formulations. The said applications were accepted after following the due
procedure contemplated under Sections 20, 72, 73 of the Trade Marks Act, which
envisages inviting opposition for registration through public advertisement.
No opposition was filed under Section 23 of the Trade Marks Act. Thereafter,
trade marks were granted to the plaintiff on September 15, 2016 and March 20,
2018 respectively and the same are valid and subsisting. Both trade marks
'TCV' and 'TYPBAR-TCV' are unique and distinct. The plaintiff has coined the
term 'TCV'. Plaintiff is the first and prior user of the mark 'TCV' since 2013
when it started its commercial run for the said vaccine. The term 'TCV' has
acquired distinctiveness as a result of continuous use made by it and is now
solely and exclusively associated with the plaintiff. In order to prove
distinctiveness, he has relied on the two parameters laid down by the Supreme
Court in Satyam Infoway Ltd. v. SIFFYNET Solutions Pvt. Ltd., (2004) 6 SCC
145, which are the volume of sales and extent of advertisement. In this
context, he had drawn the attention of the Court to the sale figures of the
plaintiff, as compared to that of defendant No.2, in the following manner: -
> YEAR SALES OF PLAINTIFF VOL. SALES OF DEFENDANT  III, PG. 16 NO.2 Vol. IV.
> PG. 6 (IN CRORES) (IN CRORES)  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 11 of 62 2013-2014
> 10.62 2014-2015 37.15 2015-2016 71.70 2016-2017 85.90 2017-2018 108.82
> April, 2018 - Dec. 2018 For the year 2018-2019, the sales 0.09 stand at
> Rs.120.57 The commercial sales of the vaccine clearly imply the way the
> product has been associated in the perception of the public.
12\. It was his submission that the plaintiff is also exporting aforesaid
vaccine (Purified Vi Capsular Polysaccharide of S. Typi Ty. 2 Conjugated to
Tetanus Toxoid) to various countries including Nigeria, Nepal, Cambodia and
Laos etc. He submitted that huge amount of money is invested in Research and
Development, and advertisement, tabulated as under:
                       FINANCIAL YEAR                       RESEARCH AND
                                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                                           EXPENDITURE (IN
                                                               CRORES)
                          2005-2006                              18.08
                          2006-2007                              10.63
                          2007-2008                              17.11
                          2008-2009                              15.86
                          2009-2010                              31.93
                          2011-2012                              16.49
                          2012-2013                              11.16
                          2013-2014                              11.35
                          2014-2015                              20.95
                          2015-2016                              35.91
                          2016-2017                              45.08
                          2017-2018                              25.25
13\. This investment will be lost and irreversible damage will be caused, if
injunction is not grated. Therefore, in view of the sales, expenditure on R&D,
advertisement and the fact that WHO, a  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 12 of 62
premier body on the health matters, has pre-qualified the plaintiff's vaccine
as the only vaccine for typhoid to be utilized for the UN program,
convincingly establishes that the plaintiff's trade mark has achieved
distinctiveness. He stated the defendants have relied on the cases of Cluett
Peabody & Co. Inc. v. Arrow Apparals, 1998 (18) PTC 156 (Bom) and Veerumal
Praveen Kumar v. Needle Industries (India) Ltd. and Ors., 2001 (21) PTC 889
(Del.) to submit that the distinctiveness will be lost by non-user. According
to Mr. Chandra, such an argument cannot be sustained in the eye of law, for
the simple reason that 'TCV' has been continuously used by the plaintiff and
also as 'TYPBAR-TCV' which itself is a registered trade mark. The registration
of the trade marks is a prima facie evidence of their validity under Section
31 of the Trade Marks Act, and any infringement thereof is actionable. In this
regard, he has relied on the judgment of the full Bench of the Bombay High
Court in Lupin v. Johnson and Johnson, 2014 SCC Online Bom. 4596. He argued,
even if it is assumed that the aforesaid trade mark is registered in breach of
Section 9(1) of the Trade Marks Act, still the trade mark cannot be declared
as invalid, as the plaintiff's trade mark has attained distinctiveness as
mandated under Section 32 of the Trade Marks Act. He submitted that the
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 13 of 62 product packaging of the parties herein are
as under:
DEFENDANT PACKAGING (IMAGE NO.1) PLAINTIFF'S PACKAGING (IMAGE NO.2)
14\. He stated that the plaintiff's packaging has 'TCV' surrounded by a
protective semi-circular shield. Similarly, defendant no.2 has deceptively
copied the shield around the term 'TCV' in their packaging. Therefore, he
submitted that the aforesaid attempt of the defendant No.2, is to deceive and
confuse the consumers and thereby cause loss to the plaintiff herein by riding
upon the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff. A similar type of vaccine
developed by Bio-Med is being sold in India under the name 'PEDA Typh'. The
defendant No.2 has made a reference  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 14 of 62 to the
aforesaid typhoid vaccine 'PEDA Typh', to show that same is a type of 'TCV'
available in the market and therefore the 'TCV' is not exclusive to the
plaintiff. However, on a reference to, Vol. IV. Pg. 12 of the defendant No.2's
documents, it is evident that the same is in fact a 'Typhoid Vi Conjugate
Vaccine' and not 'TCV' per se. He further submitted defendant No.2 has not
produced any evidence to prove that 'TCV' was a generic term. The articles and
material supplied by the defendant No.2 are all relatively recent, post 2015,
whereas plaintiff's product was already in the market since 2013. There is not
a single article / document / material, as submitted by the defendant No.2, to
point that 'TCV' was utilized in a generic sense before 2013.
15\. He submitted that a probable reason why the plaintiff's mark 'TCV' is
being contended as a 'generic term' by the defendant No.2 is because of the
lack of a convenient substitute to the term of 'Typhoid Vi Capsular
Polysaccharide Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine'. The plaintiff's product,
being the first of its kind in the market, has acquired distinctiveness with
respect to the aforesaid trade mark 'TCV'. In support of his contention, he
relied on Sunil Mittal v. Darzi on Call, (2017) 242 DLT 62, Para 15 thereof.
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 15 of 62
16\. He argued that the defendant No.2 has not applied for the registration of
its mark 'ZYVAC TCV'. This shows the malafide intent of defendant No.2 in
copying the 'TCV', without having a registration on the same. Added to the
above in an utter disrespect to plaintiff's trade mark, the defendant No.2's
brochure utilized the 'TM' symbol after 'ZYVC-TCV'. This clearly portrays the
malafide intention of the defendant No.2 to ride on the goodwill of the
plaintiff herein.
17\. It was his submission that the defendant No.2, while relying on the case
of Nestle India Ltd. v. Mood Hospitality Private Limited, 2010 (42) PTC 514
(Del.) has contended that 'TCV' is only used as a suffix to ''ZYVAC',
therefore, there is no similarity, between the plaintiff's trade mark and the
defendant's. However, the facts of that case are easily distinguishable,
having regard to the fact that usage of the term 'YO!' therein was not as a
trade mark, rather was just used to 'call the attention'. In this case, the
unique and distinctive word coined by the Plaintiff i.e., 'TCV' is utilized by
the defendant No.2 to only cause confusion in the minds of the buyers,
accordingly, the presumption under Section 29 (3) of the Trade Marks Act shall
operate in favour of the plaintiff. Moreover, there are umpteen examples
wherein by merely adding prefix to a  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 16 of 62
distinctive mark, the infringer i.e the defendant No.2 in this case, cannot
defeat the legitimate rights of the other party. He has relied on the judgment
in Kamani Oil Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Bhuwaneshwar Refineries Pvt. Ltd., 2014
(4) ABR 103. The use of 'TCV' in the impugned mark of the defendant No.2 i.e.,
'ZYVAC-TCV' is an infringement of the registered trade mark of the plaintiff
and is already causing confusion in the minds of the public. He further stated
that in any case Section 29 (3) of the Trade Marks Act, contemplates that the
Court shall presume the confusion on the part of the public with regard to the
identity of the goods and services, if a registered trade mark is copied so as
to be identical or similar to the goods of the registered trade mark user. In
the instant case, 'TCV' is a registered trade mark of the plaintiff. The use
of 'TCV' by the defendant No.2 does violence to Section 29 (3) of the Trade
Marks Act and therefore the Court ought to grant the injunction, in view of
the mandate of Section 29 (3) of the Act.
18\. He submitted that defendant No.2 has contended that the term 'TCV' is a
generic term and using it along with 'ZYVAC' as a prefix, makes it distinct
from that of the plaintiff's trade marks. The aforesaid contention cannot be
sustained in the eye of law as 'TCV' itself is registered trade mark of the
plaintiff and has been associated  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 17 of 62 with the
plaintiff's product. The very use of the 'TCV' by the defendant No.2 is done
to cash on the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff's product. The sweat
and labor of the plaintiff in developing a product and creating the scheme of
the product in the mind of the public, is sought to be exploited by the
defendant No.2. Further the objections, raised, at the time of grant of the
trade marks, have been considered by the Registry before the grant to the
plaintiff and therefore, cannot be looked into at this stage of the
proceedings wherein the plaintiff has established a prima-facie case in its
favour. Further, it is well established principle that the plaintiff is not
expected to sue all small-time infringers who may not be affecting plaintiff's
business. He relied on the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in the
case of Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India Ltd., 2008 (38) PTC 49 (Del).
19\. He argued that defendant No.2 has failed to satisfy that the registration
of the plaintiff's trade mark is ex-facie illegal, fraudulent or shocks the
conscience of the Court. Defendant No.2 has failed to discharge the very high
threshold placed on it. He placed reliance on the case of Lupin (Supra). He
submitted that the case of the Marico Ltd. v. Agro Tech Foods Ltd., 2010 (44)
PTC 736 (Del.) was one wherein the usage of the term 'LOW ABSORB'  CS(COMM)
1248/2018 Page 18 of 62 being a common descriptive word indicating the nature
of edible oil could not be upheld by the Court as it was ex facie illegal and
shocked the conscious of the Court. However, in this case at hand, the very
high threshold set by the case of Lupin (Supra) for the defendant No.2 is not
discharged.
20\. According to Mr. Chandra, the defendant No.2 has raised a contention in
the present suit challenging the validity of the plaintiff's trade mark,
without first approaching the appropriate authority i.e., Registrar or IPAB as
the case may be, for setting aside the same, as envisaged under various
provisions of the Trade Marks Act (Section 57 and 124). In this regard, he has
placed reliance on para 41 of Patel Field Marshal Agencies v. P.M. Diesels
Limited and Others, (2018) 2 SCC 112.
21\. It is also contended that, the defendant No.2, in breach of the ratio
laid down by the Supreme Court in the Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra)
inasmuch as, it has neither sought the permission of this Court nor has this
Court given a prima facie finding on the invalidity, for it to approach the
concerned Registrar or the IPAB as the case may be, during pendency of the
Suit.
22\. Finally, Mr. Chandra submitted that the plaintiff is a Company which
believes in innovation and is not merely producing  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 19
of 62 generic drugs in India. If the injunction in this matter is not granted,
then the investment made by plaintiff in Research and Development would be in
jeopardy. Every day of delay is causing irreparable loss / harm to the
plaintiff herein. According to him, the plaintiff satisfies the required
ingredients, of a prima facie case, balance of convenience and has a good case
on merits, for seeking an interim injunction against the defendants herein.
Matters pertaining to infringement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) are
special cases. Mere compensation can never be treated as an efficacious remedy
in IPR infringement matters and an injunction is therefore necessary to
prevent the defendants from invading or threatening to invade the plaintiff's
right to, or enjoyment of the property.
23\. On the other hand, it was the submission of Mr. Anil Sapra, learned Sr.
Counsel appearing for the defendant No.2 that the product in question in the
present suit is a type of vaccine for Typhoid, being one of the three vaccines
available for the disease, viz. Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine (TCV), Unconjugated
Vi Polysaccharide (ViPS) and Live attenuated Ty21a Vaccine. The marks in
question in the present matter are 'TYPBAR-TCV' and 'TCV' of the plaintiff and
the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV' of the defendant No.2. The vaccine 'Typhoid Conjugate
Vaccine', is  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 20 of 62 commonly known world over,
especially as part of medical journals and in the medical community as 'TCV'.
Therefore, as per the 'Spectrum of Distinctiveness of Marks' propounded by
McCarthy, the mark 'TCV' being a generic abbreviation of the product, as also
being descriptive of the goods it relates to, is incapable of trade mark
protection. So it, follows that generic marks i.e. marks that indicate a type
/ kind / variety of the goods being sold thereunder are incapable of acquiring
distinctiveness even through years of use and have no trade mark significance.
24\. He also stated that the mark 'TCV' is descriptive of the product in
question, and therefore, cannot be granted exclusive protection under the law
in the absence of acquired distinctiveness. He further submitted, 'Typhoid
Conjugate Vaccine' is the name of the vaccine, which is commonly abbreviated
as 'TCV' for ease of reference, such that all 'TCV' vaccines are generically
and colloquially referred to as 'TCV'. He also stated that published
scientific articles clearly refer to 'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccines' as 'TCV'. In
this regard, he has relied on page 86 and Page 91@92, Volume III, plaintiff's
documents; Pages 48@49, 64-66, 69@74,75,78,81, Volume IV Defendant no.2's
Documents. Therefore, as per the 'Spectrum of Distinctiveness', the mark
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 21 of 62 'TCV' is generic, and incapable of being
distinctive - as such, no party can claim exclusivity over the same. Further,
a highly generic mark is incapable of trade mark protection (Ref:- Cadila
Healthcare Limited v Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Limited &
Ors, 2009 (41) PTC 336 (Del)) and any registration granted in respect of a
generic mark will also not grant sanctity to the mark. The grant of a trade
mark registration is only prima facie evidence of its validity and the
presumption of prima facie validity of registration is a rebuttable
presumption. In such cases, the Court has the power to go behind the
registration, specially at the interim stage. Thus, an abbreviation cannot be
used as a trade mark if it is a generic term and has clear generic
connotations. In such cases, the defendant No.2 would have, as good a right to
a descriptive title as the plaintiff. Further, the mark TCV is descriptive of
the product in question, as it merely describes one of the three types of
typhoid vaccines available. A descriptive mark can only be afforded protection
in case it has acquired distinctiveness on facts.
25\. It was his submission, the following details of the plaintiff's marks and
its user are relevant to show that the plaintiff's  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 22
of 62 marks 'TCV' and 'TYPBAR-TCV' have not acquired distinctiveness as:
> a. The Plaintiff is not the first one to coin and adopt the mark 'TCV'. In
> this regard, he relied on page 14, Volume IV of defendant's Documents. The
> trademark application for the mark 'TCV' was first filed by one Sanjeev
> Thakkar, in relation to medicinal preparations in the year 2009 claiming
> user since May 2009 i.e. well before the plaintiff sought to claim rights in
> the same. Additionally, the said fact was concealed by the Plaintiff when it
> approached the Court seeking equitable relief;
> b. No evidence has been adduced by the plaintiff that the mark 'TCV' has
> been used by it in any manner whatsoever. The plaintiff's documents,
> including invoices, clearly show that the mark used by them is in fact
> 'TYPBAR-TCV'. Even on its own website, the plaintiff has used the marks
> 'TYPBAR' and 'TYPBAR-TCV'. Non-use of the mark 'TCV' has been cleverly
> concealed in order to mislead the Court. It is settled law that a mark that
> is not used in commerce affords no rights. Marks do not exist in a vacuum.
> (Ref:-Cluett Peabody (supra), Veerumal Praveen Kumar (supra));
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 23 of 62
> c. The Plaintiff's reliance, on the WHO pre- qualification in a trade mark
> infringement and passing off suit is misconceived and misplaced. The said
> pre- qualification does not have any bearing on the trade mark used in
> respect of the product;
> d. Assuming for the sake of argument that the mark 'TCV' is descriptive, it
> has not acquired distinctiveness inasmuch as the user of the plaintiff is
> only of six years since 2012 onwards as mentioned in para 3 of the plaint,
> that too of the mark 'TYPBAR - TCV', and not 'TCV' itself. Further, the
> plaintiff has made no claim of acquired distinctiveness in its pleadings,
> even though the same was sought to be addressed during the course of
> arguments before this Court;
> e. Such being the case, third parties including defendant No.2 cannot be
> barred from using a descriptive and generic mark;
> f. In fact, allowing the Plaintiff to enjoy exclusivity over a highly
> descriptive and generic mark such as 'TCV' would be contrary to public
> policy, as the natural effect thereof would be that honest traders such as
> defendant no.2 would not be able to inform the public at large that it is
> manufacturing a vaccine for the treatment of Typhoid. Such a chilling effect
> is highly undesirable Marico (supra);
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 24 of 62
26\. Mr. Sapra submitted that defendant no.2's mark 'ZYVAC-TCV' when
considered as a whole, is entirely different from the plaintiff's mark
'TYPBAR-TCV' and the essential and prominent feature of the defendant No.2's
mark is 'ZYVAC'. It is settled law that while comparing trade marks, the
competing marks should be considered as a whole (Ref:- Kaviraj Pandit Durga
Dutt Sharma v Navaratna Pharmaceutical Labs, AIR 1965 SC 980) and not broken
into fragments and parts; competing marks should not be placed side by side to
find out if there are any differences in them, since the whole of a mark is
greater than the sum of its parts (Ref:- Marico (supra). The test, therefore,
is if one mark bears such an overall similarity to the registered mark as
would likely to mislead a person usually dealing with one to mistake it for
the other. (Ref:- Parle Products Ltd. v. J.P and Co., 1972 (3) SCR 289; Para
9,).
27\. It was submitted by Mr. Sapra that by applying the abovementioned test,
the marks 'ZYVAC-TCV' and 'TYPBAR- TCV' bear no resemblance or similarity and
therefore eliminate any likelihood of confusion or deception. The essential
feature of the defendant No.2's mark is 'ZYVAC' and not 'TCV', as it is
evident from a mere glance at defendant No.2's product packaging. The
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 25 of 62 mark 'ZYVAC' is a coined mark and is a unique
combination of the words ZYDUS and VACCINE, and as such, has no meaning, thus
qualifying as an arbitrary and fanciful mark. Without prejudice, while a mark
is to be considered in its entirety, yet, it is permissible to accord more
importance to a dominant element in composite marks. It is not a violation of
the anti-dissection rule to view the dominant component parts in order to
decipher the probable consumer reaction. (Ref:- South India Beverages Pvt.
Ltd. v. General Mills Marketing Inc., (2015 (61) PTC231 (Del)). Any reference
to the mark 'ZYVAC' relates solely to defendant No. 2, owing to the enormous
reputation and goodwill associated with the mark 'ZYDUS'. Members of the trade
and consumers at large associate the mark 'ZYVAC' exclusively with 'ZYDUS' and
the Zydus Group in view of the reputation of the defendant No.2's group
companies and the various medicines provided under marks containing 'ZY'. The
very adoption of the arbitrary mark 'ZYVAC' shows the defendant No.2's bona
fide intention, and clarifies that it only seeks to convey to consumers that
the product in question is a 'TCV' vaccine manufactured by the Zydus Group.
28\. He further submitted, in pharmaceutical products, trade marks are usually
adopted using one of the following three features  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 26
of 62 of the product, or their combination: (i) A part of the name of the drug
or the INN name (eg: NAXDOM for Domperidone and Naproxen Tablets, CETRIZINE
for levocetrizine tablets), (ii) a part of the name of the manufacturer of the
drug and/or (eg: LEVOCIP for Levocetrezine sold by Cipla Limited) (iii) a
completely fanciful name that had no relation to the above (eg: COMBIFLAM for
Ibuprofen and paracetamol tablets) (Ref:- Cadila Healthcare Limited v Aureate
Healthcare Pvt Ltd., 2012 (51) PTC 585(Del), Para 27). In such cases, the
importance of the prefix of the word should be given due weightage and
important, in case where the suffix is common. Where the suffix is common,
regard must be had to the earlier portion of the word which distinguishes one
from the other. Where the suffix is common, the earlier portion of the word is
the natural, necessary and in fact, the actual mark of distinction (Ref:
Cadila Healthcare Limited v Dabur India Limited, (1997) 17 PTC 417). Such
being the settled position of law, it is clear that there can be no confusion
whatsoever when the marks 'TYPBAR- TCV' is compared to the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV'.
29\. Mr. Sapra submitted that the defendant No.2's use of the mark 'TCV' is
not in the trade mark sense as envisaged in Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act,
and is thus within the ambit of the law  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 27 of 62
under Sections 35 and 30(2) of the Trade Marks Act. An action for infringement
under Section 29(1) of the Trade Marks Act, could only be brought where the
defendant uses a mark 'as a trade mark' i.e. in a manner 'indicative of trade
origin' (Ref:- Nestle v Mood Hospitality, (2010 (42) PTC 14(Del), para 12). If
a mark is not being used in a 'trade mark sense' but merely in a descriptive
sense, it is covered in the exceptions under Section 30(2) and Section 35 of
the Trade Marks Act. If a defence of use of a descriptive mark as an
indication of kind, quality or characteristic of goods (under Section 35) is
to succeed, the term used is required to be generic and that the use of the
term be bona fide. It has been held that if a sufficiently distinctive term is
used along with the descriptive term, the same would qualify as bona fide use.
Thus, the presence of the word 'ZYVAC' along with the descriptive abbreviation
'TCV' in defendant No. 2's, makes the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV' sufficiently
distinctive and clearly indicates the bona fide intention of the defendant No.
2.
30\. He submitted that the packaging and overall getup of the competing marks
is different and thus no action of infringement or passing off lies against
the defendants. A bare perusal of the packaging of the products, reveal the
pronounced differences in the  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 28 of 62 packaging of
the products. The differences combined with the fact that the prefix in both
the marks are entirely different, he submitted that no action of infringement
or passing off lies against defendant No 2.
31\. It was the submission of Mr. Sapra that the plaintiff's contention that
it is the first manufacturer of the 'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine' and is
entitled to the exclusive use of the mark 'TCV', is highly misconceived. The
plaintiff has claimed in the pleadings that it is the first entity to sell a
'TCV' vaccine. In this regard, even if the same is assumed to be true, it does
not entitle the plaintiff to debar future manufacturers by adapting a
generic/descriptive term as a mark. Such a situation would impinge on the
legitimate use of the mark in future by any other manufacturer.
32\. Mr. Sapra submitted that the arguments advanced on behalf of the
plaintiff are devoid of merit and the plaintiff has sought to argue beyond its
pleadings. It is a well settled position of law that the parties cannot argue
beyond their pleadings. He stated that during the course of arguments, it was
contended on behalf of the plaintiff that the only players in the market using
the term 'TCV' are the plaintiff and the defendant No.2. However, it is
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 29 of 62 relevant to note that there are two other
players in the market that manufacture the said vaccine, apart from the
parties in the present suit. In view of the same, it cannot be contended that
the defendant No. 2 is the only party that chose to use the mark 'TCV' in
order to ride on the alleged goodwill of the plaintiff's product. He submitted
that for such an argument to sustain, there should be considerable number of
parties in the same trade, and only defendant No.2 choosing the same mark as
that of the plaintiff. However, as the facts of the present case show, 'TCV'
is presently at a nascent stage of development for commercial sale, and thus
there are very few players in the market, rendering the argument of the
plaintiff baseless.
33\. It was the submission of Mr. Sapra, that it was contended on behalf of
the plaintiff that the mark 'TCV' has acquired distinctiveness through years
of use, however, no such pleading has been made in the plaint, thus, the
argument should be rejected outrightly. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, he
highlighted that a generic mark can never acquire distinctiveness, as has been
propounded by McCarthy and reiterated in the Cadila Healthcare Limited v
Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Limited & Ors, 2009 (41) PTC 336
(Del). Further, it has been  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 30 of 62 stated by the
plaintiff during the course of hearing that the plaintiff has registered
patents for the vaccine in various jurisdictions and has also applied for a
patent in India. He submitted that the aforesaid argument should be rejected
as (a) patent registration/pending application for patent registration is
entirely irrelevant for the present trade mark infringement dispute and (b)
the aforesaid argument was not averred by the plaintiff in the pleadings. He
reiterated that a party cannot go beyond its pleadings. He submitted that the
plaintiff has, during the course of the hearing, taken the argument that
alleged 'protective semi-circular shield' over the mark of the plaintiff has
been copied by the defendant No.
2\. In this regard, he stated the symbol present in the mark of the plaintiff,
can by no stretch of imagination, be called a 'shield'. In any event, the
symbol is entirely different from the defendant No.2's mark. Further, as is
the case in most of the arguments taken by the plaintiff at the stage of
hearing, the aforesaid, has not been pleaded in the plaint. According to him
such submissions point towards the desperate attempts of improving the case,
which evidently is devoid of merit.
34\. It was his submission that the plaintiff has sought to distinguish the
case of Marico (supra) by saying that the marks  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 31 of
62 therein (LOW ABSORB and LOSORB) were evidently generic and thus would not
apply to the facts of the present case. However, the reliance was placed on
the said judgment to substantiate the following propositions of law:
> a. That companies/persons who are first of the block in the market to use a
> said mark which is descriptive in nature should be discouraged from claiming
> exclusivity on the same;
> b. Further, it was categorically held in the judgment that if a defendant
> uses his own word mark as a trade mark prominently in addition to the
> descriptive word mark which the plaintiff claims to be his trade mark,
> nothing further is required to show the bona fides of the defendant against
> whom infringement of a registered trade mark is alleged.
According to Mr. Sapra, both the aforesaid principles remain unrebutted by the
Plaintiff.
35\. According to Mr. Sapra, Mr. Chandra during the course of arguments stated
that the cases of Cluett Peabody (supra), Veerumal (supra) have no application
in the present case since the mark 'TCV' is being used as part of 'TYPBAR-
TCV'. According to him, the aforesaid contention of the plaintiff points
directly towards the mala fide of the plaintiff, since it fails to answer the
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 32 of 62 pertinent question which is: why has the
plaintiff registered both the marks 'TYPBAR TCV' and 'TCV' when in fact it had
no intention of using the mark 'TCV' per se. He stated that the plaintiff has
failed to justify or answer the aforesaid question all throughout the
pleadings and oral arguments, clearly evidencing that the registration over
the mark 'TCV' is devoid of merit. According to him, it was contended on
behalf of the plaintiff during the course of the hearing that the fact that
the defendant No.2's mark is 'ZYVAC-TCV' is immaterial since the whole mark
cannot be copied with the addition of another word with it. Taking the example
of the mark 'TATA', it was stated that "xyz TATA" would still be an
infringement. According to Mr. Sapra, the aforesaid argument is entirely
misplaced, while comparing two competing marks, the 'essential features' of
the marks are to be seen. Reliance is placed on the Supreme Court judgment in
Ramdev Food products v. Arvindbhai Ramabhai Patel, (2006) 8 SCC 726. Owing to
the generic nature of the mark 'TCV', it is an inescapable conclusion that the
essential and dominant feature of the Plaintiffs mark is 'TYPBAR' and not
'TCV'. Furthermore, the essential feature of the mark of the defendant No 2 is
'ZYVAC', since the defendant No. 2 manufactures and sells numerous medicines
under  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 33 of 62 the 'ZY' prefix, indicating its origin
from defendant No. 2 and none else. Thus, the analogy drawn with TATA trade
mark is erroneous, since TATA is the essential and dominant feature in the
mark of the proprietor, which, if used by any other party along with other
words would indeed constitute infringement, whereas 'TCV' standalone is a
generic mark and is standalone not being used by the plaintiff, disentitling
it from being the essential feature of the plaintiffs mark.
36\. He submitted the reliance placed by Mr. Chandra on the judgment of Lupin
(supra) is misplaced since though a high burden of proof lies on the defendant
to prove a prima facie case that a registration is invalid, such burden has
been discharged by defendant No. 2 in the present case since the mark 'TCV'
has not been used at all. Thus, the registration is patently illegal, obtained
even when the plaintiff had no intention to ever using the mark standalone.
Further, the plaintiff's argument regarding seeking permission of the Court
before filing a rectification is also misplaced since the judgement of the
Supreme Court in Patel Field Marshal (supra), clarifies the position by
categorically holding that no permission of the court is required before
initiating a rectification proceeding.
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 34 of 62
37\. It was submitted on behalf of defendant No.2, that in the note of
arguments filed by the plaintiff that they have also sought to place reliance
on arguments that were taken neither in the plaint/application or during
arguments. It is settled law that arguments that traverse beyond pleadings
ought not to be considered.
No case for grant of interim injunction is established by the plaintiff since:
> a. No prima facie case is established i. There is no similarity whatsoever
> between the marks 'TYPBAR-TCV' and 'ZYVAC-TCV', therefore, there is no
> infringement of the said mark as claimed or otherwise;
> ii. There is no similarity between the packaging of the plaintiff and that
> of the defendant No.2, therefore, likelihood of confusion, as alleged or
> otherwise.
> iii. The mark 'TCV' is highly generic and incapable of affording exclusive
> protection.
> iv. Assuming for the sake of argument, that the mark 'TCV' is descriptive,
> it has not acquired distinctiveness, as established by the Plaintiff's
> documents.
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 35 of 62
> v. The mark 'TCV' per se is not being used by the plaintiff itself -
> therefore, equities have to be balanced in favour of the defendant no.2.
> b. Balance of convenience is in favour of the Defendant No 2 i. The mark
> 'TCV' per se is not being used by the plaintiff itself.
> ii. The plaintiff would not be put to any inconvenience if the mark 'ZYVAC-
> TCV' which is entirely different from 'TYPBAR-TCV' is used in the course of
> trade.
> iii. Being a vaccine for a tropical disease such as Typhoid, all parties
> manufacturing the said vaccine ought to be permitted to describe the product
> as such, so that the same is made available, without any confusion or
> deception, to the largest possible patient base.
> iv. Since 'TCV' is completely descriptive of the type of vaccine, not
> allowing the defendant No.2 and others from using the name 'TCV' would be
> against public policy.
> v. The fact that the defendant No.2 has used the coined mark 'ZYVAC' (ZYDUS
> + VACCINE) along with the descriptive term 'TCV' clarifies beyond CS(COMM)
> 1248/2018 Page 36 of 62 doubt, the Defendant no.2's bona fide adoption of
> the mark.
> c. No loss will be suffered by the Plaintiff if the interim injunction is
> granted/irreparable harm will be caused to Defendant no.2 in case an order
> of interim injunction is passed i. There is no similarity between the marks
> 'TYPBAR-TCV' and 'ZYVAC-TCV', therefore, there is no infringement of the
> said mark as claimed or otherwise.
> ii. There is no similarity between the packaging of the plaintiff and that
> of the defendant No.2, therefore, no likelihood of confusion, as alleged or
> otherwise.
> iii. The mark 'TCV' is highly generic and incapable of affording exclusive
> protection. Assuming for the sake of argument, that the mark 'TCV' is
> descriptive, it has not acquired distinctiveness, as established by the
> Plaintiff's documents.
> iv. The mark 'TCV' per se is not being used by the Plaintiff itself.
> He seeks, the dismissal of the application.
CONCLUSION:
38\. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, the issue which needs
to be adjudicated in this application is whether the plaintiff is entitled to
an interim order seeking a  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 37 of 62 restraint against
the defendants from using the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV'. It was contended by Mr.
Chandra that earlier three types of vaccines were available; for treating
typhoid (i) Parenteral Killed Whole Cell Vaccine; (ii) Oral- live attenuated
Vaccine; and (iii) Typhoid-Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Vaccine. As these
vaccines were not producing immunization in children, a need was felt for a
new vaccine, which can be given to young children. It is the case of the
plaintiff that in the year 2008, it had invented a new generation of Typhoid
vaccine, being 'Typhoid Vi Capsular Polysaccharide Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate
Vaccine' which is also referred in the industry as 'Typhoid Vi Conjugate
Vaccine IP / ViP's-TT', and accordingly coined the abbreviation / acronym of
the said vaccine as 'TCV' by applying for the registration of two marks
'TYPBAR-TCV / TCV' in the year 2012, which were granted in the year 2016 and
2018 respectively. It started manufacturing in May 2013 and is a prior user.
39\. Mr. Chandra had stated that the revenue of the plaintiff from the selling
of the vaccine alone was INR 108.82 Crores in the year 2017-18. His case is
that the  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 38 of 62 launch of 'Typhoid Conjugate
Vaccine' by defendant No.2 in the year 2018 under the name of 'ZYVAC-TCV' is
apparent violation of the plaintiff's trade mark 'TCV' / 'TYPBAR- TCV',
inasmuch as 'TCV' forms part of the mark 'ZYVAC- TCV'.
40\. The case as argued by Mr. Sapra is that, the mark 'TCV' of the plaintiff
is generic abbreviation of the product as also being descriptive of the goods
it relates to, that is 'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine' and cannot acquire any
distinctiveness through use and is therefore not entitled to protection of
law. It was also contended that the mark 'ZYVAC' is a composite mark in which
'ZY' are the first two alphabets of 'ZYDUS' and 'VAC' are the three alphabets
of the word vaccine.
41\. So, from the above, it is noted that the plaintiff has registered marks
'TCV' and 'TYPBAR-TCV', whereas the mark of the defendant No.2 is 'ZYVAC-TCV'
for the same vaccine.
42\. So, first of all, it is necessary to look into the plea of Mr. Sapra,
that the mark 'TCV' being a generic abbreviation / acronym of 'Typhoid
Conjugate Vaccine' and  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 39 of 62 being descriptive of
the goods i.e. vaccine, the marks are incapable of trade mark protection.
43\. The defendant No.2 has placed on record literature of WHO, wherein the
descriptive word, 'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine' has been described as one of the
three types of vaccines, other two being unconjugated 'Vi Polysaccharide
(ViPS)' and 'Live attenuated Ty21a' available for treating Typhoid. The
Division Bench of this Court in Marico Limited (supra) has held that the
abbreviation of descriptive words cannot and should not be given protection as
a trade mark. The Division Bench also in para 6 of the said judgment has
referred to the fact that if a person is first of the blocks in using
descriptive words as a trade mark or its abbreviation that will not entitle
such person to exclusively use the descriptive word mark or its abbreviation
as a trade mark, and for this purpose reference has been made to the
provisions of Section 9, 30 and 35 of the Trade Marks Act. In fact, it was
further held that even if the descriptive word mark or its abbreviation is
registered even then such registration can be got cancelled. The relevant
paragraph 6 of the judgment is reproduced as  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 40 of 62
under:
> "6......................it is high time that those persons who are first of
> the blocks in using a trade mark which is a purely descriptive expression
> pertaining to the subject product out to be discouraged from appropriating a
> descriptive expression or an expression which is more or less a descriptive
> expression as found in the English language for claiming the same to be an
> exclusive trademark and which descriptive word mark bears an indication to
> the product's kind, quality, use or characteristic etc. This is our view is
> in accordance with the spirit of various sub sections of Section 9 and
> Section 30 besides also Section 35 of the Act...................."
44\. Similarly, in Cadila Healthcare Limited v Gujarat Cooperative Milk
Marketing Federation Limited & Ors, 2009 (41) PTC 336 (Del), wherein this
Court while considering the mark "Sugar Free" in an appeal filed against the
order of the Single Bench declining the injunction, held that the use of the
term 'Sugar Free' by the respondent (in that case) was not in the trade mark
sense but in common descriptive adjective.
45\. A Division Bench of this court, in SBL Ltd. v.  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page
41 of 62 Himalaya Drug Co., 67 (1997) DLT 803, after observing that
descriptive marks are inherently incapable of being appropriated and
protected, until they assume a secondary meaning, held as follows:
> "(3) Nobody can claim exclusive right to use any word, abbreviation, or
> acronym, which has become public juris. In the trade of drugs it is common
> practice to name a drug, by the name of the organ or ailment which it treats
> or the main ingredient of the drug. Such organ, ailment or ingredient being
> public juris or generic cannot be owned by anyone for use as trade mark.
> (emphasis supplied) (4) Whether such feature is public juris or geris is a
> question of fact. (5) If the two trade marks by two competing traders use a
> generic word or an expression public juris common to both the trademarks it
> has to be seen if the customers who purchase the goods would be guided by
> the use of such word expression or would ignore it and give emphasis to
> prefixes or suffixes or words used in association therewith. The primary
> question to be asked is what would remain in the memory of customer? The
> surrounding circumstances such as the presentation of goods, colour scheme
> and lettering style etc., used on the packing also assume significance."
46\. In the case in hand, the mark 'TCV' as conceded  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page
42 of 62 by Mr. Chandra is an abbreviation / acronym of 'Typhoid Vi Capsular
Polysaccharide Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine' / Typhoid Vi Conjugate
Vaccine I.P. / ViP's - TT' (see Para 10 above), which being a descriptive word
/ generic term with regard to one vaccine for treating Typhoid, prima facie
the mark 'TCV' could not have been registered and the registration to that
extent is illegal.
47\. Having said that, it is also a settled position of law that a generic /
descriptive term / words can be registered provided they have acquired
secondary meaning / distinctiveness.
48\. Insofar as the submission of Mr. Chandra that the mark 'TYPBAR-TCV/TCV'
has attained distinctiveness is concerned, this Court in FDC Limited (supra),
in paras 19 and 20 held as under:
> "19. In Godfrey Philips India v. Girnar Food and Beverages, 2005 (30) PTC 1
> (SC) and Indian Shaving Produtcs . Gift Pack, 1998 (18) PTC 698, it was held
> that even descriptive marks are capable of registration as trademarks, and
> their unauthorized use can amount to infringement, provided they attain that
> level distinctiveness,  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 43 of 62 through sustained
> use and reputation, that a mere use of such generic term would immediately
> signify the plaintiff as its manufacturer. Therefore, in order to so find,
> that use of a descriptive term or a term that is publici juris, amounts to
> infringement, the plaintiff must establish that use of the term has become
> synonymous with its mark, or that the reputation of the mark is of such
> nature that the public is likely to get confused and would attribute the
> defendants' goods to the plaintiff's. The more descriptive the term employed
> or alleged to be infringing, higher the standard of evidence required to
> establish that term has in fact acquired secondary meaning and thereby,
> attained distinctiveness. (Emphasis supplied)
> 20\. As to the standard of evidence required to demonstrate distinctiveness,
> it was held, in British Sugar [1996] RPC 281, that:
> "There is an unspoken and illogical assumption that use equals
> distinctiveness. The illogicality can be seen from an example: no matter how
> much use a manufacturer made of the word "Soap" as a purported trade mark
> for soap the word would not be distinctive of his goods." (internal quotes
> omitted) In Bach Flower Remedies, [2000] RPC 513, the CS(COMM) 1248/2018
> Page 44 of 62 Court observed that:
> "First, use of a mark does not prove that the mark is distinctive. Increased
> use, of itself, does not so either. The use and increased use must be in a
> distinctive sense to have any materiality."
> (Emphasis supplied) In Broadhead (1950) 67 RPC 209, the Court, following the
> observation of Lord Russell in the much celebrated Coca Cola of Canada v.
> Pepsi Cola of Canada (1942) IA 2265/2007 in CS(OS) 334/2008 page No. 14 of
> 20 59 RPC 127, stated: "Where you get a common denominator, you must in
> looking at the competing formulae pay much more regard to the parts of the
> formulae which are not common-although it does not flow from that that you
> must treat words as though the common part was not there at all."
From the above, it is clear to establish that a generic / descriptive term /
word has attained distinctiveness / secondary meaning, the plaintiff has to
establish:
              (1)    That the use of the term has become
                     synonymous with its mark.
              (2)    The quality or characteristic would be a
material factor determining the purchasing  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 45 of 62
decision of significant portion of consumers. Suffice would it be to state
whether the marks 'TCV' / 'TYPBAR-TCV' have attained distinctiveness /
secondary meaning can only be established during trial. It is the case of Mr.
Sapra that there are no pleading in the plaint with regard to distinctiveness.
I say nothing on that. The same shall be seen, at the time of final hearing
following the trial.
49\. In so far as the submission of Mr. Chandra that the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV' is
deceptively similar to mark 'TYPBAR- TCV' is concerned the Supreme Court, in
Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt (supra) has laid down a test in para 29 by stating
as under:-
> "29..........But this apart, as the question arises in an action for
> infringement the onus would be on the plaintiff to establish that the trade
> mark used by the defendant in the course of trade in the goods in respect of
> which his mark is registered, in deceptively similar. This has necessarily
> to be ascertained by a comparison of the two marks-the degree of resemblance
> which is necessary to exit to cause deception not being capable of
> definition by laying down objective standards. The persons who would be
> deceived are, of course, the purchasers of  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 46 of 62
> the goods and it is the likelihood of their being deceived that is the
> subject of consideration. The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the
> basic idea represented by the plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the
> comparison is for determining whether the essential features of the
> plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that used by the defendant. The
> identification of the essential features of the mark is in essence a
> question of fact and depends on the judgment of the Court based on the
> evidence led before it as regards the usage of the trade. It should,
> however, be borne in mind that the object of the enquiry in ultimate
> analysis is whether the mark used by the defendant as a whole is deceptively
> similar to that of the registered mark of the plaintiff." (emphasis
> supplied)
50\. The Supreme Court, in Hofffman La Roche v. Geofrey Manner and Co., 1969
(2) SCC 716, approvingly quoted the following test for the comparison of marks
from Pionotist Co., Ltd.'s Application, 23 R.P.C. 774:
> "You must take the two words. You must judge of them, both by their look and
> by their sound. You must consider the goods to which they are to be applied.
> You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy
> those goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding  CS(COMM)
> 1248/2018 Page 47 of 62 circumstances; and you must further consider what is
> likely to happen if each of those trade marks is used in a normal way as a
> trade mark for the goods of the respective owners of the marks. If,
> considering all those circumstances, you come to the conclusion that there
> will be a confusion- that is to say, not necessarily that one man will be
> injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but that there will be a
> confusion in the mind of the public which will lead to confusion in the
> goods- then you may refuse the registration, or rather you must refuse the
> registration in that case." (emphasis supplied)
51\. The Court then proceeded to apply the test to the case and observed:
"In order to decide whether the word "DROPOVIT" is deceptively similar to the
word "PROTOVIT" each of the two words must, therefore, be taken as a whole
word. Each of the two words consists of eight letters, the last three letters
are common, and in the uncommon part the first two are consonants, the next is
the same vowel 'o', the next is a consonant and the fifth is again a common
vowel 'o'. The combined effect is to produce an alliteration. The affidavits
of the appellant indicate that the last three letters "VIT" is a well known
common abbreviation used in the  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 48 of 62
pharmaceutical trade to denote Vitamin preparations. In his affidavit dated
January 11, 1961 Frank Murdoch, has referred to the existence on the Register
of about 57 trade marks which have the common suffix "VIT" indicating that the
goods are vitamin preparations. It is apparent that the terminal syllable
"VIT" in the two marks is both descriptive and common to the trade. If greater
regard is paid to the uncommon element in these two words, it is difficult to
hold that one will be mistaken for or confused with the other. The letters 'D'
and 'P' in "DROPOVIT" and the corresponding letters 'P' and 'T' in "PROTOVIT"
cannot possibly be slurred over in pronunciation and the words are so
dissimilar that there is no reasonable probability of confusion between the
words either from the visual or phonetic point of view."
(emphasis supplied)
52\. The aforesaid view was followed by the Supreme Court in JR Kapoor v.
Micronix India, (1994) Supp 3 SCC 215, wherein the Court set aside the interim
injunction in relation to the marks 'Micronix' and 'Microtel' by holding that
the word 'micro' being descriptive of the technology used for producing
electronic goods, no one could claim monopoly over the same and also its usage
was not likely to be misguiding / confusing.  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 49 of 62
The relevant paragraph reads as under:
> "6. There are two things which impress us. Firstly, the appellant is not
> manufacturing any one product such as the boosters, which has been mainly
> taken into consideration by the High Court. He is producing various
> electrical and electronic apparatus in many of which micro-chip technology
> is used. Even the boosters which he manufactures and sells are of two types,
> viz., transistorized boosters and Integrated Circuit boosters whereas the
> respondent-plaintiff manufacturers aerial boosters only of the first type.
> Thus micro-chip technology being the base of many of the products, the word
> 'micro' has much relevance in describing the products. Further, the word
> 'micro' being descriptive of the micro technology used for production of
> many electronic goods which daily come to the market, no one can claim
> monopoly over the use of the said word. Anyone producing any product with
> the use of micro chip technology would be justified in using the said word
> as a prefix to his trade name. What is further, those who are familiar with
> the use of electronic goods know fully well and are not only likely to be
> misguided or confused merely by, the prefix 'micro' in the trade name. Once,
> therefore, it is held that the word 'micro' is a common or general name
> descriptive of the products which are sold or of the technology by which the
> products are manufactured, and the users of such products are, therefore,
> not likely to be misguided or confused by the said word, the only question
> which has to be prima facie decided at this stage is whether the words 'tel'
> and 'nix' in the trade names of the appellant and the respondent are
> deceptive for the buyers and users and are likely to misguide or confuse
> them in purchasing one for the other. According to us, phonetically the
> words being totally dissimilar are not going to create any such confusion in
> the mind of the users............" (Emphasis supplied)
53\. A Division Bench of this Court in Astrazeneca UK Ltd v.  CS(COMM)
1248/2018 Page 50 of 62 Orchid Chemicals, 2007 (34) PTC 469, concluded that
the prefix 'Mero' had become publici juris, and concluded that the marks
'Meronem' and 'Meromer' are prima facie dissimilar to each other. In Apex
Laboratories v. Zuventus Health Care, 2006 (33) PTC 492 (Mad) (DB), a similar
proposition of law was articulated and a similar conclusion was arrived at in
relation the marks 'Zincovit' and 'Zinconia'. The Court specifically reasoned
that there was no visual or phonetic similarity and therefore, no deceptive
similarity."
54\. Similarly, a Coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Superon
Schweisstechnik India Limited v. Modi Hitech India Ltd., MANU/DE/1319/2018,
has, in paras 6 and 7 held as under:
> "6. The facts of this case show that the plaintiff is selling its goods by
> using two trademarks SUPERON and VAC-PAC, whereas the defendant is selling
> its goods by use of its primary trademark GMM/arc with addition of the words
> VAC-PAC on the packaging. The colour combination of the packaging of the
> plaintiff is dark yellow with use of two other main colours being blue and
> black, whereas the main packaging of the defendant is of blue and white
> colour with use of the red colour for  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 51 of 62 the
> words 'arc' which is part of the trademark GMM/arc, and there is also an
> expression 'Umesh Modi Group' appearing on the packaging of the defendant
> which is in red colour. We therefore will look at the issue with respect to
> entitlement of the reliefs claimed by the plaintiff on the ground that
> whether in the facts of the present case as hereinabove stated, can the
> defendant be said to be passing off its goods as that of the plaintiff.
> 7\. On the aspect of passing off, in my opinion, the plaintiff has no real
> prospect to succeed in the suit. This is firstly because the main trademark
> of the plaintiff is SUPERON along with the added trademark of VAC-PAC
> whereas the main trademark of the defendant is totally different being
> GMM/arc with the use of VAC-PAC. There is no identity or deceptive
> similarity qua the aforesaid two main trademarks of the parties and the
> different trademarks are such to distinguish the goods of the plaintiff from
> that of the defendant, and hence no case is made out of passing off."
> (emphasis supplied)
> 55\. Having noted the position of law and drawing inference from the above
> mentioned judgments, in the case in hand the main mark of the plaintiff is
> 'TYPBAR-TCV'  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 52 of 62 with 'TCV' being generic
> abbreviation / acronym of 'Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine' which is not a coined
> word and being common to trade as such, needs to be excluded for comparison
> with 'ZYVAC' of the defendant. On such exclusion what remains is 'TYPBAR' of
> plaintiff and 'ZYVAC' of defendant No.2. These are the essential features of
> the marks of the parties and not 'TCV'. From the comparison of these two
> marks, there is no deceptive similarity between the two and as such there is
> no reasonable probability for confusion between the words either visually or
> phonetically. That apart, the reliance placed by Mr. Sapra on Cadila
> Healthcare Limited v Dabur India Limited, (1997) 17 PTC 417, wherein it is
> held that where suffix is common, the earlier portion of the word is
> natural, necessary and in fact, the actual mark of distinction is justified.
56\. Further, I note in the written statement filed by defendant No.2, it is
stated in para 13 of sub-para (iv) that the 'TCV', per se is not being used by
the plaintiff and no evidence has been adduced to show use of the said words
as a trade mark. This stand of the defendant No.2 though  CS(COMM) 1248/2018
Page 53 of 62 denied, has not been substantiated by any document to show that
the plaintiff is actually selling the vaccine under the mark 'TCV'.
57\. It is a settled position of law in view of Cluett Peabody & Co. Inc.
(supra), which was followed in Veerumal Praveen Kumar (supra), on which the
reliance has been placed by Mr. Sapra, that if the mark is not used in
commerce, it affords no rights. The relevant para in Cluett Peabody & Co. Inc.
(supra) reads as under:
"37. XXX XXX XXX
(g) Registration enables the registered proprietor to sue for infringement of
registered trade mark irrespective of the fact whether it is used or not used.
Registration confers on the proprietor a monopoly right over the use of the
mark. But, proprietary rights in a trade mark acquired by use are superior to
rights obtained by registration under the Act. This is the main defence put up
on behalf of the defendants in this Notice of Motion. Therefore, prior user of
the marks should be protected against monopoly rights conferred by the Act.
(Pages 5 & 6 of Narayanan). A trade mark has no meaning even if it is
registered unless it is used in relation to goods. Otherwise, its non-use may
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 54 of 62 lead to its death. A trade mark which drops
out of the use dies. Where there are no goods offered for sale, there is no
use of trade mark."
58\. Similarly relevant portion in Veerumal Praveen Kumar (supra) reads as
under:
> 29\. We are in agreement with the view of the learned Single Judge of the
> Bombay High Court that if there is non user for a long period of time then
> by mere registration of the mark continuing the respondents would not be
> entitled to any injunction. This view is further reinforced by the judgment
> in Imperial Group's case (supra) wherein it was held that where there is no
> trading to give rise to a goodwill there is no interest to be protected by a
> trademark and such a trademark cannot exist in vacuum."
59\. That apart, it is also noted that the plaintiff's packaging of the
vaccine is dark blue in colour whereas the defendant No.2's is light blue. The
words 'TCV' in the plaintiff's packaging are written in orange whereas in the
defendant No.2's packaging, they are in green colour. Further what is
significant is, on the packaging of both the parties the words 'Typhoid Vi
Capsular Polysaccharide  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 55 of 62 Tetanus Toxoid
Conjugate Vaccine' (in the case of plaintiff) and 'Typhoid Tetanus Toxoid
Conjugated Vaccine' (in the case of defendant No.2) are written. The same
clearly highlight / signifies the nature of the product, to be vaccine, that
too of similar type. So, a consumer can easily make out what 'TCV' stands for.
60\. Even the plea of Mr. Chandra that the words 'TCV' on the defendant's
packaging has a protective semi- circular shield similar to the one on the
plaintiff's packaging is also not appealing. The positioning of the shield on
'TCV' in both the cases is different and has no resemblance. The plea of Mr.
Chandra that the plaintiff is the first manufacturer of the 'Typhoid Conjugate
Vaccine' and as such is entitled to exclusive use of the trade mark 'TCV' is
also not appealing.
61\. Mr. Sapra is justified in relying on the conclusion of this Court in
Marico Limited (supra), wherein this Court has held as under:
> "6........it is high time that those persons who are first of the blocks in
> using a trade mark which is a purely descriptive expression  CS(COMM)
> 1248/2018 Page 56 of 62 pertaining to the subject product out to be
> discouraged from appropriating a descriptive expression or an expression
> which is more or less a descriptive expression as found in the English
> language for claiming the same to be an exclusive trademark and which
> descriptive word mark bears an indication to the product's kind, quality,
> use or characteristic etc. This is our view is in accordance with the spirit
> of various sub sections of Section 9 and Section 30 besides also Section 35
> of the Act."
62\. That apart, I have already held that 'TCV' being an abbreviation, is not
capable of being registered as a trade mark and also that the mark 'ZYVAC-TCV'
is not deceptively similar to the mark 'TYPBAR-TCV'. So, it is inconsequential
if the plaintiff is using 'TYPBAR- TCV' earlier to the defendants as one of
the plea of Mr. Sapra was that the plaintiff is not the first one to adopt the
words, 'TCV', inasmuch as the application for mark 'TCV' was first filed by
one Sanjeev Thakkar, in relation to medicinal preparations in the year 2009.
This aspect has not been denied by the plaintiff in its replication. The
relevant part of the same reads as under:
CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 57 of 62
> "D. "TCV" has been continuously used by Plaintiff
> 13\. The contents of paragraphs 31 to 34 of the Written Statement are denied
> in toto as false and incorrect, and reliance is placed on the documents and
> evidence placed on record with the plaint. It is denied that the TCV per se
> registration was obtained by Plaintiff without any bona fide intent of use,
> and on the contrary such trade mark has been extensively used by the
> Plaintiff and is recognized as belonging to the Plaintiff in the field of
> typhoid vaccines. It is denied that the registration for TCV is liable to be
> removed from the Register under Section 9 or any other ground. It is
> reiterated that the non- raising of Section 9 as an objection is clear proof
> that as of 2012 when the trade mark application was filed, Plaintiff was the
> first coiner and adopter of the expression in respect of typhoid vaccines.
> It is denied that there has been no use of TCV as a trade mark by the
> Plaintiff, and on the contrary, the documents filed with plaint show that
> such mark is inextricably and indelibly associated in the minds of the
> public with the Plaintiff alone. It is further submitted that the submission
> regarding distinction between "prescription drugs" and CS(COMM) 1248/2018
> Page 58 of 62 "over the counter' drugs has no merit or basis, in as much as
> it does not address the inherent confusion in the minds of the weaker
> sections of the patient population who may be sold the Defendant's product
> as "TCV" belonging to the Plaintiff."
63\. In the absence of denial, it must be held that Sanjeev Thakkar has coined
the mark 'TCV' in 2009. That apart, during his submissions it was stated by
Mr. Chandra that the plaintiff is not expected to sue all small time
infringers who may not be affecting plaintiff's business by referring to the
judgment of this Court in the case of Pankaj Goel (supra) is concerned, the
same shall not help the case of the plaintiff as it is held by this Court in
FDC Ltd. (supra) that the existence of third party / parties clearly depicts
that medicinal products by different entities, with similar words 'TCV' can
co-exist in the market without causing deception or confusion. It follows,
there cannot be any claim for infringement or passing off.
64\. That apart I also note, that the defendant No.2 has applied for
registration of the mark "ZYVAC" only  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 59 of 62 and
not 'TCV', which also demonstrate that the defendant No.2, do not intend to
use the words "TCV" in a trade mark sense.
65\. In so far as the judgments referred to by Mr. Chandra are concerned, he
referred to Satyam Infoway Ltd. (Supra), to contend that it is not necessary
to establish long user, to establish reputation, it would depend upon the
volume of sales and extent of advertisement. I may state here in view of my
conclusion above, this judgment, has no applicability.
66\. Further he has relied upon the Judgment of the Full Bench of the Bombay
High Court in the case of Lupin (supra) to contend that there is a strong
presumption in law as to the validity of registration of the mark. There is no
dispute on the proposition it lays down. But in the facts of this case, as I
have held, the registration of the words 'TCV' is prima facie invalid, the
judgment has no applicability.
67\. In so far as his reliance on the Judgment in the case of Kumani Oil
Industries Pvt. Ltd. (supra) to contend that mere prefixing to a mark, the
infringer  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 60 of 62 cannot defeat the legitimate
rights of the plaintiff is concerned, I have already held, that the words
'TCV' are not capable of being used as a trade mark and the prefix "ZYVAC" is
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
a tentative view. CS(COMM) 1248/2018
71\. List the matter before Joint Registrar on 3rd July, 2020, for marking
exhibits.
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J MAY 26, 2020/jg/ak  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 62 of 62
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
                                   Anusuya Nigam and Ms.Vrinda
                                   Pathak, Advs. for D-2
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. KAMESWAR RAO
                                JUDGMENT
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J I.A. 16073/2018
1\. By this order I shall decide this application filed by the plaintiff under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of CPC seeking interim
injunction against the defendants.
2\. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent injunction against
the defendants seeking restraint order from  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 1 of 62
infringing its trade marks, passing off, rendition of accounts / damages and
delivery up etc.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is one of the leading manufacturer
of the specialized vaccines and bio-therapeutics in India with significant
presence both in India and abroad. It has a history of creating innovative
vaccines. The manufacturing facilities of the plaintiff are approved by the
regulatory agencies in India and abroad and are also approved by the World
Health Organization. The plaintiff has honestly coined the trade mark 'TCV'
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
                                   Anusuya Nigam and Ms.Vrinda
                                   Pathak, Advs. for D-2
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. KAMESWAR RAO
                                JUDGMENT
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J I.A. 16073/2018
1\. By this order I shall decide this application filed by the plaintiff under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of CPC seeking interim
injunction against the defendants.
2\. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent injunction against
the defendants seeking restraint order from  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 1 of 62
infringing its trade marks, passing off, rendition of accounts / damages and
delivery up etc.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is one of the leading manufacturer
of the specialized vaccines and bio-therapeutics in India with significant
presence both in India and abroad. It has a history of creating innovative
vaccines. The manufacturing facilities of the plaintiff are approved by the
regulatory agencies in India and abroad and are also approved by the World
Health Organization. The plaintiff has honestly coined the trade mark 'TCV'
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
                                   Anusuya Nigam and Ms.Vrinda
                                   Pathak, Advs. for D-2
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. KAMESWAR RAO
                                JUDGMENT
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J I.A. 16073/2018
1\. By this order I shall decide this application filed by the plaintiff under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of CPC seeking interim
injunction against the defendants.
2\. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent injunction against
the defendants seeking restraint order from  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 1 of 62
infringing its trade marks, passing off, rendition of accounts / damages and
delivery up etc.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is one of the leading manufacturer
of the specialized vaccines and bio-therapeutics in India with significant
presence both in India and abroad. It has a history of creating innovative
vaccines. The manufacturing facilities of the plaintiff are approved by the
regulatory agencies in India and abroad and are also approved by the World
Health Organization. The plaintiff has honestly coined the trade mark 'TCV'
and 'Typbar-TCV' in the year 2012 in relation to a revolutionary vaccine
product for Typhoid treatment, then under development by the plaintiff. Both
of the said trade marks are registered in India under Trade Marks Act, 1999
('Trade Marks Act', in short) and have been in continuous and uninterrupted
use since May, 2012. The details of the registration of the trade marks are as
under:
      a)    Trademark           :      TCV
            Registration No.    :      2291745
            Valid upto          :      28.02.2022
            Class               :      5
            Goods               :      Vaccine formulations,
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
                                   Mr. Anil Sapra, Sr. Adv. with Ms.
                                   Anusuya Nigam and Ms.Vrinda
                                   Pathak, Advs. for D-2
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. KAMESWAR RAO
                                JUDGMENT
V. KAMESWAR RAO, J I.A. 16073/2018
1\. By this order I shall decide this application filed by the plaintiff under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of CPC seeking interim
injunction against the defendants.
2\. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent injunction against
the defendants seeking restraint order from  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 1 of 62
infringing its trade marks, passing off, rendition of accounts / damages and
delivery up etc.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is one of the leading manufacturer
of the specialized vaccines and bio-therapeutics in India with significant
presence both in India and abroad. It has a history of creating innovative
vaccines. The manufacturing facilities of the plaintiff are approved by the
regulatory agencies in India and abroad and are also approved by the World
Health Organization. The plaintiff has honestly coined the trade mark 'TCV'
and 'Typbar-TCV' in the year 2012 in relation to a revolutionary vaccine
product for Typhoid treatment, then under development by the plaintiff. Both
of the said trade marks are registered in India under Trade Marks Act, 1999
('Trade Marks Act', in short) and have been in continuous and uninterrupted
use since May, 2012. The details of the registration of the trade marks are as
under:
      a)    Trademark           :      TCV
            Registration No.    :      2291745
            Valid upto          :      28.02.2022
            Class               :      5
            Goods               :      Vaccine formulations,
clearly different from the mark 'TYPBAR'. The Judgment is clearly
distinguishable.
68\. Similarly, Patel Field Marshal Agencies (Supra) shall also have no
applicability. Rather the word 'TCV' being incapable of registration, this
Court has prima-facie held the registration is invalid. An issue has to be
framed as to the invalidity of the mark 'TCV' to enable defendant No.2 to
approach the statutory authority to decide the same.
69\. In so far as the Judgment in the case of Sunil Mittal and Anr. (supra) is
concerned, the said Judgment is clearly distinguishable on facts inasmuch as
this Court negated the argument that mark "Darzi" is generic / descriptive and
by holding that the mark being used by the plaintiff for the last 20 years,
granted injunction in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.
70\. In view of my above discussion, this Court is of the view that the
plaintiff has not made out any case  CS(COMM) 1248/2018 Page 61 of 62 for
grant of interim relief, in the manner prayed for, in its favour. The
application is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the aforeasaid is
