Delhi District Court
(Originally Filed By The Jay ... vs M/S Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd on 28 May,
2010
Author: Sh. Harish Dudani
              IN THE COURT OF SHRI HARISH DUDANI,
         ADDITIONAL DISTRICT JUDGE-15 (CENTRAL) : DELHI
    Suit No.145/08/00
    Unique Case ID No. 02401C0520052003
    Usha International Limited
    having its registered office at
    19, Kasturba Gandhi Marg,
    New Delhi - 110 001
    (Originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd.
    a public limited company registered
    under the Indian Companies Act, 1913)
    having its registered office at
    23, Kasturba Gandhi Marg,
    New Delhi - 110 001                               ..........Plaintiff
                        Versus
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara - 14401, Punjab
    2.     Shri Deepak Kohli
           Managing Director
           M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara-144401, Punjab                   ..........Defendants
    Date of Institution of Suit       : 23.02.2000
    Date of Reserving Judgment        : 14.05.2010
    Date of Pronouncement             : 28.05.2010
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                   1 of 44
     JUDGEMENT
1\. The suit was originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd., 23,
Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. Thereafter, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC
was filed by the plaintiff on 19.08.2008 to amend the title of the suit
consequent upon the change of name of the plaintiff firm so as to read it as
USHA INTERNATIONAL LTD. vide fresh certificate of incorporation no.
L74210DL1974PLC00712 and the consequential amendments in para 2 of the plaint
which was allowed by my ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.09.2008 and USHA
INTERNATIONAL LTD. was substituted in place of The Jay Engineering Works Ltd.
Thereafter, the plaintiff filed the amended plaint on 23.09.2008 and in para 1
of the amended plaint it is stated that Shri Amit Sindhwani, Manager (IPR) of
the plaintiff has been duly authorised to sign and verify the plaint and to
institute these proceedings under a power of attorney duly executed by the
plaintiff.
2\. The plaintiff The Jay Engineering Works Ltd. has filed this suit for
permanent injunction of trade mark, passing off, trade mark, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. stating therein that the plaintiff is a public limited
company incorporated under the Suit No.145/08/00 2 of 44 provisions of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 and Mr. R. K. Gupta , Sr. General Manager
(Accounts), of the plaintiff and has been duly authorised to sign and verify
the plaint and institute these proceedings. The plaintiff which is a part of
the well recognized Shri Ram Group of Companies is almost 65 years old reputed
company and has been involved in manufacture and sale of a wide range of
products including Diesel Engines and parts thereof, Pump-sets, Sewing
Machines, Electric Fans etc. and importantly, the plaintiff manufactures and
sells Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for Engines of five to eight horse-power.
It is stated that keeping in mind the vast array of goods manufactured by the
plaintiff, a single brand name was utilized to encompass all these products,
it being "USHA". Concomitant with the use of a single brand name, plaintiff
undertook the designing and writing of the word "USHA" in a completely
original manner and the artistic work created involved the writing/printing of
the name "USHA" in a bold white font. All alphabets used in the font were in
the form of capital letters and each letter was placed within a rectangular
box, coloured bright red, so as to emphasize the distinct and separate nature
of the individual alphabets. Finally, the alphabets and the rectangular boxes
within which they were written/printed were all placed on a yellow background
and Suit No.145/08/00 3 of 44 thus, the design and manner in which the name
"USHA" was written/printed was both different and eye-catching and constitutes
an artistic work and the above artistic work was placed uniformly on all goods
manufactured and sold by the plaintiff, including Fuel Pump Equipment. The
Fuel Pump Equipment manufactured and sold by the plaintiff was packaged in
cuboid cardboard containers. Great effort was spent in designing the get-up
and layout of these cardboard containers and the resultant cardboard
containers, used for packaging Fuel Pump Equipment, have the unique and
distinctive design (as detailed in sub-paras (a) to (f) of para 6 of the
plaint and for the sake of brevity, the same are not being repeated here).
Viewed holistically, the cardboard containers used for packaging the Fuel Pump
Equipment have been designed by plaintiff in a distinctive, unique manner and
such design constitutes an original artistic work (hereafter referred to as
"artistic work in the container"). The artistic work comprising the stylized
writing and design of the name "USHA" and the artistic work in the containers
have been reproduced by, or with the consent of the plaintiff in
advertisements in various newspapers, magazines, written handouts, outdoor
advertising boards, shop billboards, television and almost every other
imaginable media and importantly, they have been reproduced and placed by, or
Suit No.145/08/00 4 of 44 with the consent of the plaintiff on every container
used for packaging of Fuel Pump Equipment manufactured by it and, thus, these
artistic works have been communicated to the public at large over an extensive
period of time and it is an understood fact that copyright in the above
artistic works rests with the plaintiff. The plaintiff has registration of the
copyright in artistic works, in its capacity as owner of such copyright and
details of the registered copyright of the plaintiff in the artistic
representation of the name "USHA" are as follows :-
> i. Published work USHA in English bearing No.A5348/70.
> ii. Published work USHA label in English bearing No.A25186/79.
> iii.Unpublished work USHA in Hindi bearing No.A9235/73.
3\. It is stated in the plaint that the above registrations are valid,
subsisting and in force. The plaintiff is represented all over the country and
abroad through a large distribution network which ensured that products
manufactured and sold by the plaintiff have penetrated every corner of the
country and diverse foreign markets and have become synonymous with good
quality and, today, every consumer has one or the other USHA product and these
products have become a household name not only all over India but also in
about 60 foreign countries. Consequent to the Suit No.145/08/00 5 of 44 deep
market penetration and the high quality of goods sold, the plaintiff is
currently one of the country's largest sellers of Fuel Pump Equipment and
enjoys a significant market share abroad as well. The uniquely designed
containers used for packaging the Fuel Pump Equipment have been integrally
associated with such product and the plaintiff has consistently and
prominently utilized the same in relation to such equipment. By virtue of
intensive advertising campaigns and the high quality and numbers of Fuel Pump
Equipment manufactured and sold by the plaintiff in the above described
containers, consumers purchasing such equipment immediately associate the get-
up and layout of these containers with Fuel Pump Equipment of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the trade mark USHA bearing no.
400668 in class 7 dated 29th January, 1983 for Fuel Injection equipment and
components thereof renewed from time to time and presently valid upto
28.01.2004.
4\. It is stated in the plaint that on 27th January, 2000 it came to the
notice of the plaintiff that the defendants were also carrying on the business
of selling Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for Engines of 5 to 8 horse-power
identical in specification to that sold by the plaintiff and thus, targets the
same consumers who Suit No.145/08/00 6 of 44 buy the plaintiff's equipment and
furthermore, the Fuel Pump Equipment manufactured by the defendants is
packaged in cardboard containers bearing a design which is almost identical
with that of the plaintiff's containers. The design of the defendants'
containers is thus, nearly identical to the artistic work in the plaintiff's
containers. The defendants' containers also utilize the plaintiff's artistic
works comprising the stylized design and writing/printing of the name USKA
with the alphabet 'H' replaced by the alphabet 'K' in a manner that makes the
two alphabets virtually indistinguishable. In fact, the use of the alphabet
'K' is malafide and intended to deceive the customer and to pass off the goods
of the defendants' as if they were the goods of the plaintiff. The defendants
have therefore, unauthorizedly reproduced plaintiff's artistic works and are
using the unauthorizedly reproduced artistic works of the plaintiff in the
packaging of defendants' Fuel Pump Equipment which is subsequently sold to the
public and by utilizing the plaintiff's artistic works in the above-described
manner, the defendants are unauthorizedly displaying such works to the public.
Since, the plaintiff owns the copyright in the above artistic works, both at
common law and under statute, it is the exclusive right of the plaintiff to
reproduce as well as communicate the above artistic works to the public. By
Suit No.145/08/00 7 of 44 unauthorizedly and dishonestly reproducing the same
and communicating them to the public, the defendants have infringed and
continue to infringe the plaintiff's copyright therein. The defendants are
selling Fuel Pump Equipment of specifications identical to the Fuel Pump
Equipment manufactured and sold by the plaintiff, under the mark USKA. The
impugned mark is visually, structurally and phonetically similar to the
plaintiff's registered trade mark USHA bearing no. 400668 for fuel injection
equipment and parts thereof as there is only one letter/alphabet different
between them and furthermore, the manner in which the impugned mark is written
is identical to plaintiff's trade mark and it is almost impossible to visually
differentiate between the two marks. The defendants' mark USKA is thus
deceptively similar to the plaintiff's registered trade mark USHA. By selling
Fuel Pump Equipment under the mark USKA, the defendants are passing off their
goods as those of the plaintiffs and in fact, a case can also be made for
infringement because the two marks are virtually indistinguishable. Hence, the
plaintiff, without prejudice to the case of passing off, allege that the
defendants are infringing the plaintiff's registered trade mark USHA bearing
no. 400668 for fuel injection equipment and components thereof. The
defendants' use of containers whose get-up and layout is almost Suit
No.145/08/00 8 of 44 identical to the plaintiff's unique containers, is
causing confusion in the minds of these consumers and they may be purchasing
defendants' Fuel Pump Equipment in belief that it is manufactured by the
plaintiff. The use by defendants' of cardboard containers which reproduce and
incorporate the get- up and layout of plaintiff's containers is deliberately
done to ride on plaintiff's goodwill and reputation and by unauthorizedly and
dishonestly using these containers as packaging for Fuel Pump Equipment
manufactured by them, the defendants are passing of their goods as those of
the plaintiffs. Thus, the plaintiffs have infringed the registered copyrights
bearing numbers A-25186/79 and A-5348/70 belonging to plaintiff in the
published artistic work USHA label in English and continue to do so. It is
prayed that following decree be passed in favour of the plaintiff and against
the defendants :
(a) decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants and each one of
them, themselves and through their servants, agents or otherwise from
breaching or infringing the registered copyrights in the artistic works
bearing nos. A-5348/70, A- 25186/79 and A-9235/73 belonging to the plaintiff;
(b) decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants, each one of
them, themselves and through their servants, agents Suit No.145/08/00 9 of 44
or otherwise from breaching or infringing the copyrights of the plaintiff in
its aforementioned artistic works in any manner including use thereof on
cardboard containers used for packaging Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8
HP Engines;
(c) decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants and each one of
them, themselves and through their servants, agents or otherwise from doing
the following acts or any one of them i.e. passing off or attempting to pass
off or causing, enabling or assisting others to pass off the impugned goods
being Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines, which are not the
goods of plaintiff, as that of the plaintiff's;
(d) decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants and each one of
them, themselves and through their servants, agents or otherwise, from using
the mark USKA or any other mark deceptively similar to the plaintiff's
registered trade mark USHA bearing registration No. 400668 for Fuel Injection
Equipment in respect of their goods and/or services, including Fuel Pump
Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines.
(e) decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants and each one of
them, themselves and through their servants, Suit No.145/08/00 10 of 44 agents
or otherwise from breaching or infringing the registered trade mark USHA
bearing registration No.400668 for Fuel Injection Equipment and belonging to
plaintiff;
(f) Delivery to the plaintiff, and/or destruction of, all the impugned labels
and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things, of or in the
possession, custody or control of the defendants, resulting in the passing off
of defendants' goods as the goods of the plaintiff and verification by the
defendants that the defendants no longer have in their possession, custody or
control any articles meant to be so delivered or destroyed.
(g) Delivery to the plaintiff, and/or destruction of, all the impugned labels,
and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things, of or in the
possession, custody or control of the defendants that are infringing
registered copyrights of the plaintiff in the artistic work bearing Nos.
A-5348/70, A- 25186/79 and A-9235/73 and the copyrights of the plaintiff in
its artistic works in cardboard containers used for packaging Fuel Equipment
(SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines and verification by the defendants that
defendants no longer have in their possession, custody or control articles
meant to be so delivered or destroyed.
    Suit No.145/08/00                                               11 of 44
           (h)    Delivery to the plaintiff, and/or destruction of, all the
impugned labels and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and
things, of or in the possession, custody or control of the defendants that are
infringing or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's registered trade mark
USHA bearing registration no.400668 for Fuel Injection Equipment including the
labels, material, dyes, papers etc. infringing the mark USHA and verification
by the defendants that defendants no longer have in their possession, custody
or control articles meant to be so delivered or destroyed.
(i) An enquiry as to damages or, at the plaintiff's option, an order to the
defendants for rendering a true and faithful account of all the profits earned
by the defendants by infringing plaintiff's trade marks, copyrights and
passing off their goods as those of the plaintiff's, and payment of sums found
due upon taking such account or enquiry.
5\. The defendants have filed written statement and have contested the suit.
In the written statement, the defendants have taken the objections that the
suit of the plaintiff for permanent injunction alleging infringement and/or
passing off is not maintainable.
Suit No.145/08/00 12 of 44 The plaintiff has been facing a tough competition
from the defendant in the international market and with a view to tarnish the
defendants' image, the above suit has been filed and ex-parte interim
injunction obtained by concealment/misrepresentation of facts. The trade mark
USHA is not distinctive of the goods and/or business of the plaintiff or, in
the alternative, lost distinctiveness with the passage of time. The trade mark
USHA is commonly being used in the course of trade and is registered in the
names of different persons/companies/trusts/proprietors having no connection
or privity or relationship with each other. The plaintiff as well as many
other companies/firms/trusts are claiming and/or asserting their independent
right/title to the trade mark USHA in respect of the same goods as well as the
goods of same description and/or as are cognate/allied in nature to each
other. The trade mark USHA being or having become common to trade is not
entitled to any protection in the Court of law. The use of the mark USHA on
the part of the plaintiff itself is fraudulent and amounts to trafficking in
trade mark. Numerous litigations are pending between the members of so- called
Shri Ram Group of Companies itself of which the plaintiff claims to be a
member. There is no juristic personality by the name of Shri Ram Group of
Companies in the eyes of law. The creation of multiple rights in an identical
trade mark Suit No.145/08/00 13 of 44 in respect of same or same description
of goods in the names of different proprietors is contrary to the provisions
of Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 and is also against public policy.
The plaintiff is not the proprietor of the trade mark USHA and itself is a
pirator. The plaintiff is neither prior in adoption nor in use of the said
mark in the course of trade. The plaintiff itself being a pirator and not
being the proprietor has no title to sue the defendants and the suit is liable
to be dismissed. The trade mark USHA is also being used by many other
firms/companies in respect of variety of goods and there has been and is no
likelihood of confusion and/or deception in the course of trade. The
registration no. 400668 dated 29.01.1983 in class 7 relied upon by the
plaintiff was wrongly made and is wrongly recorded on the register and is
liable to be rectified. The registration of trade mark USHA was obtained by
the plaintiff by playing a fraud on the Registrar of Trade Marks. The
plaintiffs have not properly valued the suit for the purposes of court fees
and jurisdiction. Proper court fees have also not been paid and, therefore,
the suit of the plaintiff is liable to be dismissed. It is denied that the
plaintiff is an incorporated company or that Mr. R. K. Gupta, Senior General
Manager (Accounts) of the plaintiff is authorised and/or competent to sign,
verify or institute the present proceedings and the suit has Suit No.145/08/00
14 of 44 not been properly or validly instituted, signed and/or verified.
Since no copyright subsist in USHA (logo) or cardboard container, the
plaintiff cannot claim any exclusive right to the use thereof. The cardboard
container used by the plaintiff is not an original artistic work and is not
capable of being the subject matter of copyright. It is denied that the
cardboard container used for the packaging of the Fuel Pump are descriptive,
unique or original artistic work, as alleged or otherwise. It is stated that
the USHA (logo) has been published much prior to the date on which the
plaintiff alleges to have adopted and used the same. The plaintiff is neither
the author nor the owner of copyright in the USHA (logo) or cardboard
container. It is denied that the defendants are using the trade mark USKA or
the carton description whereof has been given by the plaintiff in the plaint.
It is denied that the defendants' goods are packed in a cardboard container
bearing design which is allegedly similar to that of the plaintiff's container
and that the defendants have targeted the same consumers who buy the
plaintiff's equipment. It is denied that the defendants by using the impugned
mark USKA tried to emulate the mark USHA of the plaintiff. It is denied that
there exists any copyright in the alleged artistic work of the plaintiff and
defendants have ever dishonestly infringed plaintiff's copyright therein or
communicated such artistic work to the Suit No.145/08/00 15 of 44 public. It
is denied that the impugned mark is visually, structurally and phonetically
similar to the plaintiff's registered mark USHA bearing no. 400668 for fuel
pump equipment and parts thereof. It is further denied that the mark USKA is
deceptively similar to the trade mark USHA and the defendants are passing off
their goods as those of the plaintiff. The defendants have refuted other
averments made in the plaint. It is stated that the plaintiff is not entitled
to the reliefs claimed and the suit is liable to be dismissed.
6\. From the pleadings of the parties, following issues were framed by my ld.
Predecessor on 12.07.2004 :-
1\. Whether trade mark "Usha" is not distinctive of the goods of the
plaintiff? OPD.
2\. Whether plaintiff is proprietor of the trade mark "Usha"?
OPP.
3\. Whether suit has not been valued properly for the purpose of court fees
and jurisdiction? OPD.
4\. Whether suit has been signed verified and instituted by a competent
person? OPP.
5\. Whether cardboard container used by the plaintiff is original artistic
work and is capable of subject matter of copyright? OPP.
6\. Whether goods of the defendant are packed in a Suit No.145/08/00 16 of 44
cardboard container bearing design is similar to that of the plaintiff's
container? OPP.
7\. Whether plaintiff is entitled to decree of permanent injunction as prayed
for in the prayer clause? OPP.
8\. Whether plaintiff is entitled to delivery and destruction of all impugned
lables, dyes, papers etc. etc.? OPP.
9\. Whether plaintiff is entitled to true and faithful amount of profit earned
by the defendant? OPD.
10\. Relief.
7\. To prove its case, the plaintiff examined Shri R. K. Gupta, Executive
Director of the plaintiff M/s Jay Engineering Works Ltd. as PW-1, Shri Sanjay
Garg, Advocate (Local Commissioner) as PW-2 and Shri Amit Sindhwani, Senior
Manager (I.P.R.) of the plaintiff M/s Usha International Ltd. as PW-3.
8\. In order to prove its defence, the defendants examined Shri R.
L. Kohli, Director of the defendant no. 1 as DW-1.
9\. I have heard the ld. Counsels for parties and carefully perused record. My
findings on the specific issues are as under :-
Suit No.145/08/00 17 of 44  10\. Issue No. 1 In para 3 of the PO of WS, the
defendants have stated that the trade mark USHA is not distinctive of the
goods and/or business of the plaintiff or in the alternative lost
distinctiveness with passage of time. In the same para of WS, the defendants
have stated that trade mark USHA is commonly being used in the course of trade
and is registered in the names of different
persons/companies/trusts/proprietors having no connection or privity or
relationship with each other and the plaintiff as well as many other
companies/firms/trusts etc. are claiming and/or asserting their independent
right/title to the trade mark USHA in respect of the same goods as well as the
goods of the same description and/or as are cognate/allied in nature to each
other.
11\. The case of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff is a reputed company
which is almost 65 years old and is a part of the well recognised Shriram
Group of Companies and has been involved in manufacture and sale of a wide
range of products including Diesel Engines and parts thereof, Pump-sets,
Sewing Machines, Electric Fans etc. The plaintiff manufactures and sells Fuel
Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines. The plaintiff has contended that
keeping in mind the vast array of goods manufactured by the plaintiff, a
single brand name was utilised Suit No.145/08/00 18 of 44 to encompass all
these products being USHA.
12\. The plaintiff examined Shri R. K. Gupta as PW-1 who adduced evidence by
way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A and in para 4 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, PW-1 has
stated that the plaintiff is a reputed company i.e. almost 65 years old and it
has been involved in manufacture and sale of a wide range of products
including Sewing Machines, Electric Fans etc. and the plaintiff has been
manufacturing and selling Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines and
keeping in mind the vast array of goods a single brand name utilised to
encompass all these products being USHA. The plaintiff has filed on record the
trade mark registration certificates of trade mark USHA in class 7 in respect
of Fuel Injection Equipment and components thereof included in class 7 under
no. 400668 dated 29.01.1983 which is Ex.PW1/8 and certificate Ex.PW1/13 as per
which the said trade mark has been renewed for a period of ten years from
29.01.2004. Although, in the WS, the defendants have pleaded that the trade
mark USHA is is not distinctive of the goods and/or business of the plaintiff
or in the alternative lost distinctiveness with passage of time and the trade
mark USHA is commonly being used in the course of trade and is registered in
the names of different persons/companies/trusts/proprietors Suit No.145/08/00
19 of 44 but the defendants have not adduced any evidence to the effect that
the trade mark USHA is not distinctive of the goods and business of the
plaintiff and/or that it has lost distinctiveness with passage of time or is
being commonly used in the course of trade and is registered in the names of
different persons/companies/trusts etc and is not entitled to any protection.
The onus to prove this issue was on the defendants but the defendants have
failed to prove that the trade mark USHA is not distinctive of the good and
the business of the plaintiff. This issue is accordingly decided in favour of
the plaintiff and against the defendants.
13\. Issue No. 2
In para 12 of the amended plaint and para 12 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A,
plaintiff has stated that the plaintiff is the registered proprietor of trade
mark USHA for Fuel Injection Equipment and components thereof under no. 400668
in class 7 dated 29.01.1983 and the said registration has been renewed from
time to time and is presently valid upto 28.01.2004. The plaintiff has filed
on record the copy of the trade mark registration certificate bearing no.
400668 dated 29.01.1983 issued by the Trade Marks Registry Ex.PW1/8 as per
which trade mark USHA has been registered in favour of M/s Jay Suit
No.145/08/00 20 of 44 Engineering Works Ltd. in class 7 in respect of Fuel
Injunction equipment and components thereof included in class 7. The plaintiff
has filed on record certificate issued by Trade Marks Registry under no.
400668 in class 7 Ex.PW1/13 as per which the trade mark no. 400668 in class 7
in respect of word mark USHA has been renewed for a period of 10 years from
29.01.2004. The defendant did not prefer to put any question to PW-1 in the
cross-examination regarding validity of the trade mark certificates Ex.PW1/8
and Ex.PW1/13. The testimony of PW-1 to the effect that the plaintiff is
registered proprietor of the trade mark USHA under no. 400668 in class 7 has
remained unrebutted. Accordingly, this issue is decided in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
14\. Issue No. 3
In para 8 of PO of WS, defendants have taken the objection that the suit has
not been properly valued for the purposes of court fees and jurisdiction and
appropriate court fees has not been paid. By way of the present suit, the
plaintiff has prayed for a decree of permanent injunction for restraining the
defendants from breaching or infringing the copyrights of the plaintiff in the
artistic works bearing no. A-5348/70, A-25186/79 and A- 9235/73, for a decree
of injunction restraining the defendants Suit No.145/08/00 21 of 44 from
breaching and infringing the plaintiff's copyright in its artistic work in
respect of the cardboard containers used for packaging Fuel Pump Equipment,
for decree of permanent injunction restraining the defendants from passing off
or attempting to pass off the impugned goods being the Fuel Pump Equipment
(SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines which are not the goods of the plaintiff as that
of the plaintiff, for decree of permanent injunction restraining the
defendants from using the mark USKA or any other mark deceptively similar to
the plaintiff's registered trade mark bearing registration no. 400668 for Fuel
Pump Equipment in respect of their goods and for a decree for permanent
injunction restraining the defendants from breaching or infringing the
registered trade mark USHA bearing registration no. 400668 for Fuel Injection
Equipment. It is stated in para 25 of the plaint that for the relief of
injunction, for the purpose of court fee each relief is valued at Rs.130/- and
court fee of Rs.13/- is being paid on the each relief i.e court fee of Rs.65
is being affixed for the relief of injunction. By way of present suit the
plaintiff has also prayed for relief of rendition of accounts and it is stated
that the suit for the said purpose is valued at Rs.200/- and court fees of
Rs.20/- is being affixed. By way of present suit the plaintiff has also prayed
for order for delivery to the plaintiff, and/or destruction of, all the
impugned Suit No.145/08/00 22 of 44 labels and/or other goods, articles,
material, dyes, papers and things, of or in the possession, custody or control
of the defendants, resulting in the passing off of defendants' goods as the
goods of the plaintiff, order for delivery to the plaintiff for destruction
all impugned labels and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and
things or or in possession, custody or control of the defendants that are
infringing registered copyrights of the plaintiff in the artistic work bearing
nos. A- 5348/70, A-25186/79 and A-9235/73 and its artistic works in cardboard
containers used for packaging Fuel Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines and
order for delivery to the plaintiff, and/or destruction of, all the impugned
labels and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things, of or
in the possession custody or control of the defendants that are infringing or
deceptively similar to the plaintiff's registered trade mark USHA bearing
registration no.400668 for Fuel Injection Equipment including the labels,
material, dyes, papers etc. Infringing the mark USHA.
15\. It is stated in para 25 of the plaint that for the relief of delivery/
destruction, the suit is valued at Rs.200/- for each of the said relief and
the court fees of Rs.60/- is being affixed. It is stated in para 25 of the
plaint that for the purpose of jurisdiction, the Suit No.145/08/00 23 of 44
value of the suit is Rs.5,05,000/-. Section 7(iv)(d) of the Court Fees Act,
1870 provides that amount of court fee payable to obtain injunction shall be
according to the amount at which relief sought is valued in the plaint. As per
Section 8 of the Suit Valuation Act, 1887 where in suits other than those
referred to in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (7 of 1870), section 7, paragraphs v,
vi, and ix, and paragraph x, clause (d) Court-fees are payable ad valorem
under the Court-fees Act, 1870 (7 of 1870), the value as determinable for the
computation of Court- fees and the value for purposes of jurisdiction shall be
the same. Although, in the plaint the plaintiff has mentioned that value for
the purpose of jurisdiction is at Rs.5,05,000/- but appropriate court fees on
the same has not been paid. Accordingly, it is held that appropriate court fee
on the jurisdictional value as stated by the plaintiff on Rs.5,05,000/- has
not been paid. However, on that ground, the suit cannot be dismissed as the
said defect can be removed by payment of appropriate court fees. This issue
stands answered accordingly.
16\. Issue No. 4
The suit was filed by M/s Jay Engineering Works Ltd. stating therein that the
plaintiff is a public limited company incorporated under the provisions of the
Indian Companies Act, Suit No.145/08/00 24 of 44 1913 and Shri R. K. Gupta ,
Sr. General Manager (Accounts), of the plaintiff and has been duly authorised
to sign and verify the plaint and institute these proceedings under a power of
attorney dated 14.10.1996 executed by the plaintiff. Shri R. K. Gupta appeared
in the witness box as PW-1 and he adduced evidence by way of affidavit
Ex.PW1/A. In para 1 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, Shri R. K. Gupta has stated
that at present he is the Executive Director of the plaintiff and at the time
of filing of the plaint, he was the Senior General Manager (Accounts) and he
is the authorised representative of the plaintiff company. In para 2 of the
affidavit Ex.PW1/A, it is stated that The Jay Engineering Works Ltd. is a
public limited company incorporated under the provisions of Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and the power of attorney executed in favour of Shri R. K. Gupta is
Ex.PW1/2 and the said power of attorney bears signatures of Shri Deepak C.
Shriram, the then director of the plaintiff company and the plaint has been
signed by him. As per power of attorney Ex.PW1/2, Shri R. K. Gupta is
authorised to appear and to represent the company before all Courts, tribunals
etc. and to prosecute or defend any action, suit, application, appeal etc. on
behalf of the plaintiff company. By way of the said power of attorney
Ex.PW1/2, Shri R. K. Gupta has been authorised to sign and verify all plaints,
petitions, statements, applications, Suit No.145/08/00 25 of 44 affidavits
etc. The power of attorney Ex.PW1/2 is attested by Notary Public.
17\. Vide order dated 02.09.2008, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC filed on
behalf of the plaintiff was allowed by my ld. Predecessor by which the
plaintiff wanted to amend title of the suit consequent upon change of name of
the plaintiff so as to read it as Usha International Ltd. Thereafter, the
plaintiff filed amended plaint wherein the plaintiff was mentioned as Usha
International Ltd. and in para 1 of the amended plaint, it is stated that Shri
Amit Sindhwani, Manager (IPR) of the plaintiff has been duly authorised to
sign and verify the plaint and to institute these proceedings under a power of
attorney duly executed by the plaintiff. Shri Amit Sindhwani appeared in the
witness box as PW-3 and adduced evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW3/A. In para
1 of the affidavit Ex.PW3/A, Shri Amit Sindhwani has stated that he is the
Senior Manager (IPR) of the plaintiff and he has been duly authorised to sign
and verify the plaint and to execute these proceedings under a power of
attorney dated 23.06.2008 which is Ex.PW3/1 and the said power of attorney is
signed by Ms. Chhaya Shriram, the wholetime director of the plaintiff company.
As per power of attorney Ex.PW3/1, Shri Amit Sindhwani has been authorised to
Suit No.145/08/00 26 of 44 sign and verify all pleadings and the said power of
attorney Ex.PW3/1 is attested by Notary.
18\. Section 85 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 provides that the Court shall
presume that every document purporting to be a power-of-attorney, and to have
been executed before, and authenticated by, a Notary Public, or any court,
Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative of the
Central Government, was so executed and authenticated. In Mars Incorporated
represented by Power of Attorney Agent, Mr. A. Arulselvan v. Mares
Confectioneries P. Ltd., MANU/TN/0469/2007 it was held that a suit for trade
mark infringement cannot be dismissed only on technical view doubting validity
of Power of Attorney in view of Section 85 of Evidence Act.
19\. PW-1 stated in cross-examination that he has brought the original power
of attorney executed in his favour. In the cross- examination of PW-3, the
defendant did not prefer to put any question and his testimony has remained
unrebutted. The plaintiff has proved that the suit has been signed, verified
and instituted by a duly athorised person. This issue is accordingly decided
in favour of the plaintiff and against he defendants.
Suit No.145/08/00 27 of 44  20\. Issue No. 5 In para 6 of the amended plaint
and in para 6 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, the plaintiff has stated that the
Fuel Pump Equipment manufactured and sold by the plaintiff were packaged in
cuboid cardboard containers and great effort was spent in designing the get-up
and layout of these cardboard containers and the said containers have unique
and distinctive design. Top flap of the said container has a yellow background
with a white border and at the centre of this flap printed in bold black is
text stating the name and registered address of the plaintiff and declaring
the product within the container to be made in India and the same contains on
the left the Shri Ram Group Logo. Bottom flap is left blank. It is further
stated that right flap of the container of the plaintiff has yellow background
with a white border and artistic work comprising the stylised writing of the
name USHA is placed on the top centre of this flap and this text prominently
states two model numbers, unique to the plaintiff, they being UP IA 80 1001
and UI BL 67S 103 and the group logo is printed at the lower centre of this
flap. It is stated that the left flap has a yellow background with white
border and artistic work comprising of stylised writing of the name USHA and
it bears the aforesaid model numbers and the Suit No.145/08/00 28 of 44 group
logo is printed at the lower centre of this flap. Front flap of the container
has the background of yellow in the upper part and the lower part has red and
both the parts have white border and the artistic work comprising of the
stylised writing of the name USHA is placed on the top central portion of the
upper part of this flap and placed within white boxes and superimposed over
both parts of this flap are two detailed drawings/sketches, drawn to scale of
machine parts of the Fuel Pump Equipment manufactured by the plaintiff and the
words Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP engines is printed in white
colour. It is stated that back flap of the container is identical to the front
flap. The container filed by the plaintiff on record is Ex.PW1/4. In para 9 of
the plaint and in para 9 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, it is stated that
plaintiff has registration of the copyright in artistic work, in its capacity
as owner of such copyright and the artistic work representation of the name
USHA is registered vide number A-5348/70 in respect of published work USHA in
English, vide number A-25186/79 in respect of published work USHA label in
English and vide number A-9235/73 in respect of unpublished work USHA in Hindi
and the copyright registration certificates are Ex.PW1/5 to Ex.PW1/7. As per
copyright registration certificate Ex.PW1/5, the word USHA has been written in
four contiguous blocks in Suit No.145/08/00 29 of 44 bold letters each block
containing one alphabet of USHA in dark background. In the cross-examination
of PW-1, no such suggestions have been given to the effect that the artistic
work in respect of the container Ex.PW1/4 has not been created by the
plaintiff or that the plaintiff is not the owner in respect of the said
artistic work or that the plaintiff is not entitled to use the said artistic
work. In the cross-examination of PW-1, no suggestions have been given to the
effect that the plaintiff is not entitled to use the mark USHA in the
distinctive style i.e. four contiguous blocks each containing alphabets of the
word USHA. This issue is accordingly decided in favour of the plaintiff and
against the defendant.
21\. Issue No. 6
In para 16 of the plaint, it is stated that the defendants are selling Fuel
Pump Equipment of the specifications identical to the Fuel Pump Equipment sold
by the plaintiff under the mark USKA and the impugned mark is visually,
structurally and phonetically similar to the plaintiff's registered trade mark
USHA bearing no. 400668 for fuel injection equipment and parts thereof as
there is only one letter/alphabet different between them. The plea of the
plaintiff is that the mark of the defendants is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's registered Suit No.145/08/00 30 of 44 trade mark USHA. In para 18
of the plaint, the plaintiff has stated that the defendants have used the
container whose get up and layout is almost identical to the plaintiff's
unique container and is causing confusion in the minds of the consumers and
they may be purchasing the Fuel Pump Equipment of the defendants believing
that it is manufactured by the plaintiff. It is further stated that the
cardboard containers used by the defendants which reproduce and incorporate
the get-up and layout of plaintiff's containers is deliberately done to ride
on plaintiff's goodwill and reputation. In para 19 of the plaint, the
plaintiff has stated that the defendants have infringed the registered
copyright bearing no. A-25186/79 belonging to the plaintiff in respect of
published artistic work USHA label in English and the defendants have also
infringed the registered copyright bearing no. A-5348/70 belonging to
plaintiff in the published artistic work USHA in English. It is stated in para
19 of the plaint that the defendants have infringed the copyright belonging to
the plaintiff in artistic work in the containers used to package Fuel Punp
Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP engines and continue to do so. The contention
of the defendants is that they have not adopted the mark USKA in the artistic
manner with colour combination as that of the plaintiff and there is no
presentation of the word USKA by the defendants on their Suit No.145/08/00 31
of 44 container as the work USHA is depicted by the plaintiff on their
container and the defendants are not using the mark USKA. The contention of
the defendants is that they are selling their Fuel Pump Equipment under the
trade mark BAWA and the container of the defendants is totally different in
the colour scheme, layout and presentation of the written material.
22\. In order to substantiate their contention that the defendants have
adopted the mark USKA which is deceptively similar to the trade mark USHA of
the plaintiff and that the defendants are marketing the products under the
trade mark USKA in the containers which are similar in the colour scheme and
get up as that of the container of the plaintiff which is Ex.PW1/4, the
plaintiff has relied on container Ex.PW1/9. However, the contention of ld.
counsel for the defendants is that the container Ex.PW1/9 does not belong to
the defendants and the plaintiff has failed to prove that the said container
has been got manufactured by the defendants and the defendants are selling
their products in the said container bearing the trade mark USKA. In para 13
of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, the plaintiff has stated that on 27.01.2000 it came
to the notice of the plaintiff that the defendants were also carrying on the
business of selling Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines and the
Suit No.145/08/00 32 of 44 defendants' Fuel Pump Equipment is packaged in
cardboard container bearing the get up, colour combination and design which is
almost identical with that of the plaintiff's container and the said container
is Ex.PW1/9. The defendants have pleaded that the cardboard container Ex.PW1/9
on which reliance has been placed by the plaintiff does not belong to the
defendants and the defendants have not committed any violation of the trade
mark or copyright of the plaintiff.
23\. Although, in para 13 of the affidavit Ex.PW1/A, the plaintiff has stated
that on 27.01.2000 that it came to the notice of the plaintiff that the
defendants were carrying on the business under the trade mark USKA and they
were selling their products in the container bearing the same get up, colour
combination and design which is identical to the container of the plaintiff
but the plaintiff has not proved that from whom they came to know that the
defendants have adopted the mark USKA and are selling their products in the
container which is deceptively similar to the container of the plaintiff which
is Ex.PW1/4. the plaintiff has also not produced the goods which were sold in
the container Ex.PW1/9 and the plaintiff has also not proved that the goods as
contained in the container Ex.PW1/9 were purchased from which place and no
bill in respect of purchase Suit No.145/08/00 33 of 44 of the said goods
contained in Ex.PW1/9 has been proved. The plaintiff has not examined any
witness who could depose that the goods as contained in Ex.PW1/9 were
purchased by him and the said goods were manufactured and marketed by the
defendants under the alleged trade mark USKA.
24\. However, the ld. counsel for the plaintiff has contended that there is a
sticker on the top flap of the container Ex.PW1/9 and on careful perusal of
the top flap in Ex.PW1/9, one can notice that Bawa Industries is mentioned on
the top flap of the container Ex.PW1/9 which has been concealed by applying a
sticker. Although, ld. counsel for the plaintiff has raised the plea that the
words Bawa Industries can be noticed on the top flap of the container Ex.PW1/9
below the sticker but DW-1 was not put any question in his cross-examination
that the words Bawa Industries are visible below the sticker on the top flap
of Ex.PW1/9 and that the said container Ex.PW1/9 belongs to the defendants.
25\. DW-1 produced containers relating to packaging of Fuel Pump Equipments on
08.07.2008 and the same are Ex.DW1/P1 and Ex.DW1/P2 and the carton used for
packaging the Fuel Pump Equipment which is Ex.DW1/P3. Perusal of Ex.DW1/P1 and
Suit No.145/08/00 34 of 44 Ex.DW1/P2 shows that the get up, colour combination
and the trade mark used on the same are not identical or similar to the
container of the plaintiff which is Ex.PW1/4. The containers Ex.DW1/P1 and
Ex.DW1/P2 have been prepared by the defendants on black background and the
trade mark BAWA of the defendants is mentioned on the same in four contiguous
blocks each containing one alphabet of BAWA. Comparison of the container of
the plaintiff which is Ex.PW1/4 and that of the defendants which are Ex.DW1/P1
and Ex.DW1/P2 shows that there is no similarity between the two and one who
sees the container of the defendants would not be confused believing it to be
container of plaintiff and no deception could be caused to the purchaser and
the one who intends to buy the product of the plaintiff would not end up
buying the product of the defendants presuming the same to be the product of
the plaintiff. The plaintiff has not succeeded in proving the that the goods
of the defendants are packaged in the cardboard container bearing the design
which is similar to the plaintiff's container. This issue is accordingly
decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
26\. Issue Nos. 7, 8 & 9
Since all these issues involve common discussion of facts and Suit
No.145/08/00 35 of 44 law, hence, for the sake of brevity, all these issues
are being taken up together. The case of the plaintiff is that on 27.01.2000,
the plaintiff came to know that the defendants were carrying on the business
of selling Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines which is identical
in specifications to that sold by the plaintiff and thus, targets the same
customers who buy the plaintiffs equipment and the said Fuel Pump Equipment
manufactured by the defendant is packaged in cardboard containers bearing the
design which is almost identical with that of the plaintiff containers and the
defendants are selling the said Fuel Pump Equipment under the trade mark USKA
which is deceptively similar to the trade mark USHA of the plaintiff. The
contention of ld. Counsel for the defendants is that the plaintiff is not
entitled to any relief as the plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of
action for filing the present suit i.e. that the defendants are infringing the
trade mark of the plaintiff by adopting the trade mark USKA in respect of Fuel
Pump Equipment and the defendants are also violating the copyright of the
plaintiff in respect of its containers and the plaintiff has failed to produce
any goods which were manufactured or sold by the defendants containing the
impugned infringing trade mark USKA and sold in the containers deceptively
similar to the container of the plaintiff and thereby violating copyright of
the Suit No.145/08/00 36 of 44 plaintiff in the said container.
27\. The contention of the ld. Counsel for the plaintiff is that a local
commissioner was appointed to visit the business address of the defendants but
he defendants did not cooperate with the said local commissioner and the
defendants have also not filed objections to the report of the local
commissioner and local commissioner has not been cross-examined by the
defendants and in the circumstances an adverse inference may be drawn against
the defendants that they were infringing the trade mark and copyright of the
plaintiff.
28\. The ld. Counsel for the defendants has contended that there was no
requirement of filing separate objections to the report of the local
commissioner as in the WS, they have already taken objection as to the report
of the local commissioner. Moreover, the local commissioner did not find any
objectionable material and in the circumstances unless the infringing material
was produced, no adverse inference can be drawn against the defendants.
29\. Vide order dated 23.02.2000, Shri Sanjay Garg was appointed as local
commissioner to enter and search the premises of the Suit No.145/08/00 37 of
44 defendants, take an inventory of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes papers and things including cardboard
containers used as packaging for Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP
Engines of or in possession, custody or control of the defendants, resulting
in the passing off of defendants' goods as the goods of the plaintiff and
local commissioner was further directed to take an inventory of all the
impugned labels and/or other goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and
things including cardboard containers used as packaging for Fuel Pump
Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines of or in possession, custody or control
of the defendants, resulting in the infringement of the registered copyrights
of plaintiff in the artistic works bearing nos. A- 5348/70, A-25186/79 and
A9235/75 and copyrights of the plaintiff in its artistic works in cardboard
containers used for packaging Fuel Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines and
also to take an inventory of all the impugned labels and/or other goods,
articles, material, dyes, papers and things including cardboard containers
used as packaging for Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines of or
in possession, custody or control of the defendants, resulting in the
infringement of the registered trade mark USHA (word-mark) bearing
registration no. 400668 for Fuel Pump Injection Suit No.145/08/00 38 of 44
Equipment. The local commissioner was further directed to take into his
possession, all the impugned labels and/or other goods, articles, material,
dyes, papers and things, including cardboard containers used a packaging for
Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines of or in the possession,
custody or control of the defendants resulting in the passing off the
defendants' goods as the goods of the plaintiff and/or infringement of the
registered copyrights of the plaintiff in artistic work bearing nos.
A-5348/70, A-25186/79 and A- 9235/73 and the copyrights of the plaintiff in
its artistic works in cardboard containers used for packaging Fuel Equipment
(SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines, and/or infringement of plaintiff's registered
trade mark USHA (word-mark) bearing registration no. 400668 for Fuel Injection
Equipment and seize the impugned labels and/or other goods, articles,
material, dyes, papers and things including cardboard containers used as
packaging for Fuel Pump Equipment (SCP Set) for 5-8 HP Engines.
30\. Local Commissioner Shri Sanjay Garg appeared in the witness box as PW-2
and the proceedings sheet prepared by him is Ex.PW2/1 and the report of the
proceedings executed by him is Ex.PW2/2. As per proceedings Ex.PW2/1 and
report Ex.PW2/2 Suit No.145/08/00 39 of 44 filed by the local commissioner,
the commission was duly executed by him on 28.02.2000. As per report of local
commissioner, he alongwith local lawyers Shri Vikram Shorey, Advocate and Shri
Umesh Ohri, Advocate and Shri Naresh Arora and Shri S. K. Jain,
representatives of the plaintiff went to City Police Station Phagwara to seek
assistance of police and one ASI and one Constable were deputed from the
police station and thereafter they proceeded towards the site where the
commission was to be executed and they entered the defendants' premises. The
contention of ld. Counsel for the plaintiff is that local commissioner was not
extended cooperation from the defendants as he was made to wait in the
premises of the defendants. In his report, local commissioner has mentioned
that he had approached the reception counter and thereafter finally Shri
Deepak Kohli met him and he was allowed to enter the operational area and he
searched the areas which was open alongwith Shri Goswami, Shri Vikram Shorey,
Shri Umesh Ohri and the police officials and Shri Deepak Kohli and his father
were also present and there was certain locked areas which were not opened on
the pretext that labour had taken the keys alongwith them and the said locked
areas were three in numbers and he was not permitted to visit the office are
on the pretext that trade secret books and other accounting books were lying
in Suit No.145/08/00 40 of 44 the said area. However, DW-1 Shri R. L. Kohli
stated in the cross-examination that local commissioner did not prepare the
report in their presence and he denied the suggestion of the plaintiff in the
cross-examination and he and his son Deepak Kohli had refused to sign the
proceedings sheets prepared by the local commissioner. Thereafter, DW-1
voluntarily stated in the cross-examination that no such proceeding sheets
were prepared in their presence. DW-1 also denied the suggestion in the cross-
examination to the effect that copy of report had been supplied to him by the
local commissioner. DW-1 also denied in the cross-examination that there is
room no. 15 in their factory premises as mentioned in the report of the local
commissioner. DW-1 denied the suggestion in the cross-examination that he did
not permit the local commissioner to visit their whole factory premises. The
plea as raised by the plaintiff is that the local commissioner was not allowed
to visit the entire premises by the defendants but the defendants have pleaded
that they did not prevent access of the local commissioner to any area of the
factory. As per proceedings sheet Ex.PW2/1 filed by the local commissioner on
record, he was accompanied with other persons also i.e. Shri Vikram Shorey,
Advocate, Shri Umesh Ohri, Advocate and Shri Naresh Arora and Shri S. K. Jain,
representatives of the plaintiff and in addition to that local Suit
No.145/08/00 41 of 44 commissioner had taken assistance of two police
officials from the nearby police station. The proceeding sheet Ex.PW2/1 is not
signed by the said two police officials and in the proceeding sheet/attendance
sheet which has been filed on record by the local commissioner, the names of
the said two police officials are also not mentioned. The contention of ld.
Counsel for the defendants is that the names of ASI Sarabjeet Singh and
Constable Pritpal Singh who had accompanied local commissioner from the police
station have not been deliberately mentioned in the report of the local
commissioner as the local commissioner did not find any objectionable articles
from the premises of the defendants and the said police officials had
submitted their report to the concerned police station about the said fact of
non-recovery of any objectionable goods. The local commissioner has not
mentioned the names of the said police officials who accompanied him at the
time of inspection of the premises of the defendants and in the cross-
examination of DW- 1, suggestion was given to the effect that the officials of
the police station had intimated the defendants about the visit of local
commissioner in advance and on receipt of this information, the defendants got
removed/locked the entire infringing goods before the visit of the local
commissioner. If the plaintiff was aggrieved with the conduct of the police
Suit No.145/08/00 42 of 44 officials who accompanied the local commissioner at
the time of inspection, in that case local commissioner could have mentioned
so in his report that the said police officials had not cooperated with the
local commissioner at the time of the inspection. In his report, Ex.PW2/2,
local commissioner has not mentioned that on refusal by the defendants to open
the locked areas, he requested the police officials to either get the locks
opened from the defendants or the said locks be broken in presence of the said
police officials for compliance of the orders of the Court. In the
circumstances, I find no force in the contention of ld. Counsel for the
plaintiff that adverse inference is to be drawn against the defendants on the
basis of report of the local commissioner as the purpose of appointment of
local commissioner is not to collect evidence for the parties. Moreover, it is
for the plaintiff to prove the case on the strength of evidence within his
possession. The plaintiff cannot succeed only on the premise that adverse
inference is liable to be drawn against the defendants in view of report of
local commissioner without producing any independent evidence to prove his
case that the defendants had in fact infringed the trade mark and copyright of
the plaintiff. It is to be noted that the plaintiff has failed to produce any
incriminating article, which the plaintiff alleges to have been manufactured
or sold by the defendants thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of
the plaintiff. The plaintiff has specifically stated in para 13 of the plaint
that they came to know that Suit No.145/08/00 43 of 44 defendants were
committing infringement of the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff but
the plaintiff has not examined any witness from whom the plaintiff came to
know about the alleged acts of the defendants and the plaintiff has not
produced any goods/boards/wrappers which were manufactured or sold by the
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
         th
                              ADDL. DISTT. JUDGE-15 (CENTRAL)
                                               DELHI
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                    44 of 44
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara - 14401, Punjab
    2.     Shri Deepak Kohli
           Managing Director
           M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara-144401, Punjab                   ..........Defendants
    Date of Institution of Suit       : 23.02.2000
    Date of Reserving Judgment        : 14.05.2010
    Date of Pronouncement             : 28.05.2010
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                   1 of 44
     JUDGEMENT
1\. The suit was originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd., 23,
Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. Thereafter, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC
was filed by the plaintiff on 19.08.2008 to amend the title of the suit
consequent upon the change of name of the plaintiff firm so as to read it as
USHA INTERNATIONAL LTD. vide fresh certificate of incorporation no.
L74210DL1974PLC00712 and the consequential amendments in para 2 of the plaint
which was allowed by my ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.09.2008 and USHA
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara - 14401, Punjab
    2.     Shri Deepak Kohli
           Managing Director
           M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara-144401, Punjab                   ..........Defendants
    Date of Institution of Suit       : 23.02.2000
    Date of Reserving Judgment        : 14.05.2010
    Date of Pronouncement             : 28.05.2010
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                   1 of 44
     JUDGEMENT
1\. The suit was originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd., 23,
Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. Thereafter, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC
was filed by the plaintiff on 19.08.2008 to amend the title of the suit
consequent upon the change of name of the plaintiff firm so as to read it as
USHA INTERNATIONAL LTD. vide fresh certificate of incorporation no.
L74210DL1974PLC00712 and the consequential amendments in para 2 of the plaint
which was allowed by my ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.09.2008 and USHA
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara - 14401, Punjab
    2.     Shri Deepak Kohli
           Managing Director
           M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara-144401, Punjab                   ..........Defendants
    Date of Institution of Suit       : 23.02.2000
    Date of Reserving Judgment        : 14.05.2010
    Date of Pronouncement             : 28.05.2010
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                   1 of 44
     JUDGEMENT
1\. The suit was originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd., 23,
Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. Thereafter, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC
was filed by the plaintiff on 19.08.2008 to amend the title of the suit
consequent upon the change of name of the plaintiff firm so as to read it as
USHA INTERNATIONAL LTD. vide fresh certificate of incorporation no.
L74210DL1974PLC00712 and the consequential amendments in para 2 of the plaint
which was allowed by my ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.09.2008 and USHA
INTERNATIONAL LTD. was substituted in place of The Jay Engineering Works Ltd.
Thereafter, the plaintiff filed the amended plaint on 23.09.2008 and in para 1
of the amended plaint it is stated that Shri Amit Sindhwani, Manager (IPR) of
the plaintiff has been duly authorised to sign and verify the plaint and to
institute these proceedings under a power of attorney duly executed by the
plaintiff.
2\. The plaintiff The Jay Engineering Works Ltd. has filed this suit for
permanent injunction of trade mark, passing off, trade mark, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. stating therein that the plaintiff is a public limited
company incorporated under the Suit No.145/08/00 2 of 44 provisions of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 and Mr. R. K. Gupta , Sr. General Manager
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
    1.     M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara - 14401, Punjab
    2.     Shri Deepak Kohli
           Managing Director
           M/s Bawa Industries Pvt. Ltd.
           11, Industrial Area
           Phagwara-144401, Punjab                   ..........Defendants
    Date of Institution of Suit       : 23.02.2000
    Date of Reserving Judgment        : 14.05.2010
    Date of Pronouncement             : 28.05.2010
    Suit No.145/08/00                                                   1 of 44
     JUDGEMENT
1\. The suit was originally filed by The Jay Engineering Works Ltd., 23,
Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. Thereafter, an application u/o 6 rule 17 CPC
was filed by the plaintiff on 19.08.2008 to amend the title of the suit
consequent upon the change of name of the plaintiff firm so as to read it as
USHA INTERNATIONAL LTD. vide fresh certificate of incorporation no.
L74210DL1974PLC00712 and the consequential amendments in para 2 of the plaint
which was allowed by my ld. Predecessor vide order dated 02.09.2008 and USHA
INTERNATIONAL LTD. was substituted in place of The Jay Engineering Works Ltd.
Thereafter, the plaintiff filed the amended plaint on 23.09.2008 and in para 1
of the amended plaint it is stated that Shri Amit Sindhwani, Manager (IPR) of
the plaintiff has been duly authorised to sign and verify the plaint and to
institute these proceedings under a power of attorney duly executed by the
plaintiff.
2\. The plaintiff The Jay Engineering Works Ltd. has filed this suit for
permanent injunction of trade mark, passing off, trade mark, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. stating therein that the plaintiff is a public limited
company incorporated under the Suit No.145/08/00 2 of 44 provisions of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 and Mr. R. K. Gupta , Sr. General Manager
defendant thereby infringing the trade mark and copyright of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff has failed to prove the cause of action for filing the present
suit. Accordingly, the plaintiff is not entitled to decree of permanent
injunction or for delivery/destruction of all the impugned labels and/or other
goods, articles, material, dyes, papers and things and for true and faithful
amount of profits earned by the defendants, as prayed. All these issues are
accordingly decided in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiff.
31\. Issue No. 10 (Relief) In view of aforesaid discussions and findings on
issue nos. 7, 8 & 8 above, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, as
claimed. In view of findings on issue no. 3 above, the plaintiff is required
to make payment of appropriate court fees which shall be deposited within one
month from today. Suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Parties are left to bear
their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared on depositing of the appropriate
court fees. Thereafter, file be consigned to Record Room.
    (Announced in the open Court      (HARISH DUDANI)
    on 28 May, 2010)
