Authority Tribunal
In Re: Application No. P-16 Of 1998 vs Unknown on 4 December, 1998
Equivalent citations: 1999 236 ITR 103 AAR
Bench: S C Sen, S C Jain, M Bhussry
RULINGS Application No. P-16 of 1998 Decided On: 04.12.1998 Appellants: In Re:
Application No. P-16 of 1998 Vs.
Respondent:
Hon'ble Judges:
Suhas C. Sen, J. (Chairman), Subhash C. Jain and Mohini Bhussry, Members
Subject: Direct Taxation Acts/Rules/Orders:
Income Tax Act, 1961 - Section 90 and 90(2); Finance Act Cases Referred:
Woodend (K.V. Ceylon) Rubber and Tea Co. Ltd. v. IRC, [1970] 2 All ER 801;
Callco Dealings Ltd. v. IRC, [1961] 1 All ER 762, [1961] 59 TC 509; Gramophone
Co. of India v. Birendra Bahadur Pandcy, AIR 1984 SC 667 RULING S.C. Sen,
(Chairman)
1\. The applicant is a non-resident banking company, incorporated in the
Republic of France and has been carrying on business from a branch office in
India. The applicant has applied for a ruling on the following question :
"In the light of Article 26 of the agreement for the avoidance of double
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
on capital entered into by the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French Republic, whether the applicant is chargeable to tax
in respect of income earned from business, as computed under Article 7 of the
treaty from the assessment year 1996-97, at the rate applicable to a domestic
company, in so far as is beneficial to the applicant."
2\. The Revenue has raised a preliminary point. Whether this application made,
can be entertained at all. The objection raised on the behalf of the Revenue
is that the applicant is carrying on banking business in India for the past
several years. It is regularly filing its returns as per the Income-tax Act
and is being assessed accordingly. Therefore, this applicant is precluded from
making this application for advance ruling. The expression "advance ruling"
has been defined in Section 245N in the following manner.
"245N. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) 'advance ruling' means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application in relation to a transaction which
has been undertaken, or is proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant ;"
3\. Section 245(R)(2) lays down thus :
"The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application :
Provided that the Authority shall not allow the application except in the case
of a resident applicant where the question raised in the application,--
(a) is already pending in the applicant's case before any income-tax
authority, the Appellate Tribunal or any court ;
(b) involves determination of fair market value of any property ;
(c) relates to a transaction which is designed prima facie for the avoidance
of income-tax . . ,"
4\. The determination of a question of law or fact in relation to a
transaction which has been undertaken or proposed to be undertaken by the
applicant can be referred to this Authority. It is not the case of the Revenue
that the question raised in this application has already been decided by
Assessing Officer, Computation of tax is part of the assessment process, in
which the rate of tax will have to be determined.
5\. There is no dispute that the applicant is a non-resident. There is also no
dispute that the question arises in relation to a series of transactions which
have been undertaken by the applicant. But the only difficulty is that this
issue about the rate of tax, even if not specifically raised will have to be
decided in the course of the assessment proceedings. It is a question involved
in the pending assessment proceedings. The applicant cannot be heard to say
that even though the assessment proceedings are pending, determination of the
rate of tax which is an integral part of the assessment process is not
pending. Therefore, we are of the view, that the preliminary objection raised
on behalf of the Revenue is of some substance. We, however, do not propose to
dispose of this case on the preliminary point.
6\. The second and the main question is whether a higher rate of tax can be
imposed on the applicant which is a French banking company in view of the
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and France (DTAA). There is
no dispute in this case that a domestic company is required to pay a lower
rate of tax than a non-domestic company. The rate of tax is fixed annually by
the Finance Act. The grievance of the applicant is that the prescribed rate
for payment of tax by a domestic company is lower than the rate of tax
applicable to a non-domestic company. This is violative of Article 26 of the
DTAA.
"Domestic company" has been defined by Section 2(22A) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, to mean "an Indian company, or any other company which, in respect of
its income liable to tax under this Act, has made the prescribed arrangements
for the declaration and payment, within India, of the dividends (including
dividends on preference shares) payable out of such income."
7\. "Foreign company" has been defined by Section 2(23A) of the Income-tax Act
to mean a company which is not a domestic company.
8\. "Indian company" has been defined by Section 2(26) of the Income-tax Act
to mean a company formed and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956), and includes-
(i) a company formed and registered under any law relating to companies
formerly in force in any part of India (other than the State of Jammu and
Kashmir and the Union Territories specified in Sub-clause (iii) of this clause
;
(ia) a corporation established by or under a Central, State or provincial Act
;
(ib) any institution, association or body which is declared by the Board to be
a company under Clause (17) ;
(ii) in the case of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, a company formed and
registered under any law for the time being in force in that State ;
(iii) in the case of any of the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli,
Goa, Daman and Diu and Pondicherry, a company formed and registered under any
law for the time being in force in that Union Territory :
Provided that the registered or, as the case may be, principal office of the
company, corporation, institution, association or body in all cases is in
India."
9\. The rates of tax payable by a domestic company and a company which is not
a domestic company as laid down in the Finance Acts, 1994, 1995 and 1996 are
set out hereunder :
finance act, 1994 Paragraph E of Part I of the First Schedule "I. In the case
of a domestic company,-
(1) where the company is a company in which the public are substantially
interested 45 per cent, of the total income ;
(2) where the company is not a company in which the public are substantially
interested.
50 per cent, of the total income.
II. In the case of a company other than a domestic company,-(i) on so much of
the total income as consists of-
(a) royalties received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st
day of March, 1961, but before the 1st day of April, 1976, or
(b) fees for rendering technical services received from Government or an
Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or
the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964, but before the 1st
day of April, 1976, and where such agreement has, in either case, been
approved by the Central Government.
50 per cent ;
(ii) on the balance, if any, of the total income.
65 per cent.
Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the provisions of this paragraph or Section 112 shall, in the case of every
domestic company having a total income exceeding seventy-five thousand rupees,
be increased by a surcharge calculated at the rate of fifteen per cent. of
such income-tax."
finance act, 1995 Paragraph E of Part I of the First Schedule "I. In the case
of a domestic company,-
40 per cent, of the total income ;
II. In the case of a company other than a domestic company,-
(i) on so much of the total income as consists of-
(a) royalties received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st
day of March, 1961, but before the 1st day of April, 1976, or
(b) fees for rendering technical services received from Government or an
Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or
the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964, but before the 1st
day of April, 1976, and where such agreement has, in either case, been
approved by the Central Government.
50 per cent. ;
(ii) on the balance, if any, of the total income 55 per cent.
Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the provisions of this paragraph or Section 112 shall, in the case of every
domestic company having a total income exceeding seventy-five thousand rupees,
be increased by a surcharge calculated at the rate of fifteen per cent. of
such income-tax."
finance act, 1996 Paragraph E of Part I of the First Schedule "I. In the case
of domestic company 40 per cent, of the total income ;
II. In the case of a company other than a domestic company,-
(i) on so much of the total income as consists of-
(a) royalties received from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement made by it with the Government or the Indian concern after the 31st
day of March, 1961, but before the 1st day of April 1, 1976, or
(b) fees for rendering technical services received from Government or an
Indian concern in pursuance of an agreement made by it with the Government or
the Indian concern after the 29th day of February, 1964, but before the 1st
day of April, 1976, and where such agreement has, in either case, been
approved by the Central Government.
50 per cent. ;
(ii) on the balance, if any, of the total income 55 per cent.
Surcharge on income-tax The amount of income-tax computed in accordance with
the provisions of this paragraph or Sections 112 and 113 of the Income-tax Act
shall, in the case of every domestic company having a total income exceeding
seventy-five thousand rupees, be increased by a surcharge calculated at the
rate of fifteen per cent. of such income-tax."
10\. Article 26 of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (hereinafter
referred to as DTAA) between India and the Government of France provides as
under (see [1994] 209 ITR (St.) 130, 153) :
Article 26 : Non-discrimination :
"1. Nationals of one of the Contracting States shall not be subjected in the
other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which nationals of the other Contracting State in the same
circumstances are or may be subjected. The provision shall, notwithstanding
the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of
one or both of the Contracting States.
2\. Except where the provisions of paragraph 5 of Article 7 apply the taxation
on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of one of the Contracting
States has in the other Contracting State shall not be less favourably levied
in that other Contracting State than the taxation levied on enterprises of
that other Contracting State carrying on the same activities.
3\. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not be construed as obliging one of
the Contracting States to grant to residents of the other Contracting State
any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on
account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own
residents.
4\. Except where the provisions of Article 10, paragraph 7 of Article 12 or
paragraph 8 of Article 13 apply interest, royalties and other disbursements
paid by an enterprise of one of the Contracting States to a resident of the
other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable
profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they
had been paid to a resident of the first mentioned Contracting State.
Similarly, any debts of an enterprise of one of the Contracting States to a
resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining
the taxable capital of such enterprise, be deductible under the same
conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the first-mentioned
Contracting State.
5\. Enterprises of one of the Contracting States, the capital of which is
wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first
mentioned Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first mentioned
Contracting State are or may be subjected."
Para. 12 in the Protocol to the Agreement provides (see [1994] 209 ITR (St.)
130, 160) :
12\. As regards the application of paragraph 1 of Article 26, it is understood
that an individual, legal person, partnership or association which is a
resident of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to be in the same
circumstances as an individual, legal person, partnership or association which
is a resident of the other Contracting State. This shall also apply where such
individuals, legal persons, partnerships or associations are, in applying
paragraph 1(h) of Article 3 (General Definitions) deemed to be nationals of
the Contracting State of which they are residents."
11\. The Finance Acts of 1994, 1995 and 1996 have prescribed different rates
of tax for a domestic company and a non-domestic company. The non-domestic
companies are required to pay a higher rate of tax. A domestic company, on the
other hand, has to pay a surcharge on the tax which a non-domestic company
does not have to pay. It is contended on behalf of the applicant that even
after taking into account the surcharge, a non-domestic company has to pay tax
at a higher rate. This fact is not disputed by the respondent. The question,
therefore, is whether different rates of tax for domestic and non-domestic
companies are violative of the provisions of the DTAA between India and
France.
12\. The definition of a "domestic company" was inserted by Section 2(22A) in
the Income-tax Act by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, with effect
from April 1, 1989. When the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India
and France was entered into on September 29, 1992, the parties to the
agreement were well aware of the fact that a domestic company which declared
and distributed its dividends in India had to pay tax at a lower rate than a
non-domestic company. This would be evident from the Finance Acts of 1991 and
1992. A foreign company which does not declare and distribute dividends in
India will be a non-domestic company. But, if a foreign company declares and
pays dividend in India, it will be treated as a domestic company. This
distinction between a "domestic company", "Indian company" and a "foreign
company" has been in existence for a long time in the Indian income-tax law.
For example, Section 85A as it stood on April 1, 1966 was as under :
"85A. Deduction of tax on intercorporate dividends.--"Where the total income
of an assessee being a company includes any income by way of dividends
received by it from an Indian company or a company which has made the
prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment of dividends
(including dividends on preference shares) within India, the assessee shall be
entitled to a deduction from the income-tax with which it is chargeable on its
total income for any assessment year or so much of the amount of income-tax
calculated at the average rate of income-tax on the income so included (other
than any such income on which no income-tax is payable under the provisions of
this Act) as exceeds an amount of twenty-five per cent. thereof :
Provided that in the case of a company which has not made the prescribed
arrangements for the declaration and payment of dividends within India and
whose total income includes any income by way of dividends received by it from
an Indian company which is not such a company as is referred to in Section 108
and which is mainly engaged in the business of generation or distribution of
electricity or of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more
of the articles or things specified in the list in the Fifth Schedule the
amount of income-tax deductible under this section shall be so much of the
amount of income-tax calculated at the average rate of income-tax on the
income so included (other than any such income on which no income-tax is
payable under the provisions of this Act) as exceeds an amount of fifteen per
cent. thereof: . . ."
13\. It will be seen from the above that an Indian company and a company which
had made prescribed arrangements for declaration and distribution of dividends
in India were treated as one class of taxpayers in this section. Sections 85B
and 85C separately dealt with foreign companies. Later on, a company which
declared and distributed dividend in India and an Indian company came to be
compendiously described as a domestic company.
14\. Section 80M which came in place of Section 85A with effect from April 1,
1968, provided as under :
"80M. (1) Where the gross total income of an assessee being a company includes
any income by way of dividends received by it from a domestic company, there
shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be
allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction from such
income by way of dividends of an amount equal to-
(a) where the assessee is a foreign company-
(i) in respect of such income by way of dividends received by it from an
Indian company which is not such a company as is referred to in section 108
and which is mainly engaged in a priority industry 80 per cent, of such income
;
(ii) in respect of such income by way of dividends other than the dividends
referred to in sub-clause
(i) 65 per cent, of such income ;
(b) where the assessee is a domestic company-
in respect of any such income by way of dividends . . , 60 per cent, of such
income.
Explanation--For the purposes of this section, a company shall be deemed to be
mainly engaged in a priority industry if the income attributable to any such
industry or industries included in its gross total income for the previous
year is not less than fifty-one per cent. of such gross total income."
15\. The Finance (No. 2) Act, 1971, which substituted the following for
Clauses (a) and (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 80M and deleted the
Explanation, with effect from 1st April, 1972, provided thus :
"(a) sixty per cent. of such income, where the assessee is a domestic company
;
(b) sixty-five per cent. of such income, where the assessee is a foreign
company."
16\. Section 80MM, however, spoke of Indian companies and 80N dealt with
foreign companies. However, what is important to note is that Section 80M
prescribed different rates of tax for domestic and foreign companies.
17\. With full knowledge of this well known and long standing distinction
between an Indian company, domestic company and a foreign company the non-
discrimination clause in the DTAA (article 26) was drafted. It did not
prohibit the long standing distinction in Indian tax laws between a domestic
company and a non-domestic company. Therefore, it will not be right to contend
as has been done before us on behalf of the applicant that discrimination has
been made between a French company and an Indian company in the matter of levy
of tax. The distinction drawn by the Finance Act is on the basis of
distribution of dividend. If a French concern declares and distributes
dividends in India, it has to be treated as a domestic company and taxed as
such. The basis of the distinction between a domestic and a non-domestic
company is quite clear. The object of a tax Act is to collect tax. The
dividends distributed in India lead to fresh accrual of income in the hands of
the recipients. That means that there will be further levy of tax on account
of distribution of dividend in India. This distinction does not violate
Article 26 of the DTAA in any way. No attempt has been made in Article 26 to
do away with this long standing classification of companies in the Income-tax
Act.
18\. A further contention made on behalf of the Union of India by the learned
Additional Solicitor-General is also of substance. The applicant is a bank. It
has been contended that an Indian banking company in India is under certain
social obligations which have not been thrust upon a foreign bank. A
nationalised bank has to look after the needs of the people, big or small and
take banking service even to remote and non-profitable areas. Therefore, an
Indian bank and a foreign bank are not equally circumstanced.
19\. The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act,
1970, was passed to acquire the undertakings of banks having deposits of not
less than rupees fifty crores. Foreign banks were specifically exempted from
the provisions of this Act. This was followed by the Banking Companies
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980. Foreign companies were
once again specially excluded from the definition of a "banking company" as
given in Section 2 of this Act.
20\. The objects and reasons for passing these two Acts were stated in the
following terms (see [1980] 50 Comp Cas (St.) 121) :
"To gain control over the commanding heights of the economy for the attainment
of the national, social and economic objectives, fourteen major Indian
scheduled banks, each with deposit of Rs. 50 crores or more, were nationalised
in July, 1969. It was then visualised that public ownership of these banks
would help in more effective mobilisation of savings and their channelisation
for productive purposes. Since the nationalisation of such banks, bank
services have grown rapidly, particularly, in the hitherto under-banked rural
and semi-urban areas. There has also been a progressive increase in the
deployment of bank resources for the neglected sectors and weaker sections of
society.
2\. The Government are committed to implement the 20-point programme
vigorously. In pursuance of this objective, the public sector banks have
undertaken to increase their credit to priority sectors to 40 per cent. of
their total advances over a period of five years.
3\. In order further to control the heights of the economy, to meet
progressively, and serve better, the needs of the development of the economy
and to promote the welfare of the people, in conformity with the policy of the
State towards securing the principles laid down in Clauses (b) and (c) of
Article 31) of the Constitution, six Indian private sector banks, each having
deposits of Rs. 200 crores or more on 14th March, 1980, were nationalised by
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance,
1980, promulgated by the President on the 15th April, 1980. The Ordinance was
also considered necessary for providing larger credit to priority sectors, for
establishing a more effective and meaningful direction and control over the
operations of these banks and also for making these banks an integral part of
the national development effort."
21\. It was also stated in the objects clause of the Act that the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, was passed to
provide for the acquisition and transfer of the undertakings of certain
banking companies, having regard to their size, resources, coverage and
organisation, in order further to control the heights of the economy, to meet
progressively, and serve better, the needs of the development of the economy
and to promote the welfare of the people, in conformity with the policy of the
State towards securing the principles laid down in Clauses (b) and (c) of
Article 39 of the Constitution and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto. Article 39 of the Constitution of India, to the extent
relevant for our purpose, is reproduced as under :
Article 39 of the Constitution of India :
"39. Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.-- The State
shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing.--. . .
(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community
are so distributed as best to subserve the common good ;
(c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the
concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment ;"
22\. The object of a nationalised bank is not to make maximum possible profit
but to "subserve the common good." The professed object is to effectively
mobilise savings and employ the money for productive purposes. In order to
achieve this object, after nationalisation, the Indian banks have opened
branches in a large number of areas to provide banking services specially in
"the under-banked rural and semi-urban area". The purpose was not to make
profit but to make banking service available to the common man in those areas
in accordance with objects and purposes of the two acquisition Acts. A foreign
bank does not open a branch except for the purpose of making profit. It does
not allow a person of small means to open an account in any of its branches.
In fact, a foreign bank usually requires large deposits to be made as a price
for opening an account and a substantial amount has to be kept as minimum
reserve for operating a savings account. Further, if the deposit falls below a
certain minimum, service charges are levied. In other words, the foreign bank
confines its business to the more affluent section of the society who can
afford to keep a large amount of money deposited with the bank. This practice
restricts the number of depositors and enables the bank to have the use of the
deposits for gainful purposes. It has no social obligation to open branches in
unprofitable areas or to make its services available to the common people of
humble means who cannot make a large initial deposit.
23\. Moreover, as has been stated in the objects clause of the Act of 1980,
after nationalisation, there has been a progressive increase in the deployment
of resources of the nationalised banks for the neglected sectors and weaker
sections of the society. Forty per cent. of the resources are invested in the
priority sector.
24\. On behalf of the applicant, this argument was countered by saying that a
foreign banking company is not permitted to carry on business in the
agricultural sector. That may be so. But a nationalised bank has to open
branches in the agricultural and semi-urban sectors even though such branches
may not be profitable. The overriding idea is to provide banking services to
the common man at his doorstep. For that purpose, nationalised banks had to
open branches at places where banks did not exist. The obvious reason why
banking service was not available in urban and semi-urban areas before
nationalisation was that these sectors were not found profitable by the banks
before nationalisation.
25\. A nationalised bank which has to function under the Government
regulations to achieve certain social objects as stated in the objects clauses
of the Bills pursuant to which the aforesaid Acts were enacted, cannot be held
to be equally circumstanced as a foreign bank. A nationalised bank is not free
even to recruit its employees on its own. The recruitment of employees has to
be done under and according to the provisions of the Banking Service
Commission Act. A certain percentage of jobs has to be reserved for the under-
privileged class. A nationalised bank has to be treated as "State" under
Article 12 of the Constitution. Fundamental rights are enforceable against a
nationalised bank. It follows from the above that a foreign banking company
and an Indian banking company are not working under the same circumstances or
on same conditions.
26\. Reference may be made in this connection to Double Taxation Conventions
and International Tax Law by Philip Baker (2nd edition), pages 385-386 :
"Articles 24(1), (2) and (5): Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of
nationality.
The prevention of discriminatory taxation on grounds of nationality in Article
24(1) is of more limited scope than is sometimes thought. The article
prohibits 'any taxation or any requirement connected therewith, which is other
or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which
nationals of that other state in the same circumstances, in particular with
respect to residence are or may be subjected'. The point is that a non-
resident alien is not in the same circumstances as a resident national ; the
article does not prohibit discrimination against non-residents, only
discrimination on grounds of nationality alone.
To give some examples of cases where the taxpayers failed to prove
discrimination. A 2 per cent. capital levy imposed in Germany on branches of
non-resident enterprises, but not on branches of German enterprises, was held
not to infringe the non-discrimination article. . .
Similarly, the Internal Revenue Service have held that there is no breach of
the non-discrimination article if special tax rate schedules are available
only to resident nationals since a non-resident is not in the same
circumstances."
27\. In the case before us, distinction has been made on the basis of
distribution of dividends in India. We are of the view that the applicant has
failed to establish that there has been discrimination under Article 26(1).
28\. Moreover, the protocol to the DTAA set out earlier in this ruling clearly
recognises that a French company and an Indian company are not deemed to be in
the same circumstances.
29\. The question is whether the Indian banks have been placed in a more
favourable position than French banks by the annual Finance Acts. The case of
the applicant is that the French banks have to pay tax at a higher rate than
the Indian banks although they are carrying on the same activities.
30\. This argument is of little merit. The activities of the Indian and French
banks are similar in that both carry on banking operations. However, the
activities of the Indian and French banks are not identical. As we have noted
earlier, large Indian banks were nationalised by the two Acts of Parliament to
promote certain social and economic objectives of the State and have to
function as instruments for mobilisation of resources for the common good.
They cannot be said to be in the same circumstances as French banks which have
no such constraints and are free to operate their profit-making apparatus to
the maximum extent possible. It has also to be borne in mind that a
nationalised bank has to be treated as State under Article 12 of the
Constitution of India. Fundamental rights can be enforced against the
nationalised bank. It has also to comply with Government guidelines and laws
in the matter of recruitment of its employees. A certain percentage of the
posts has to be reserved for the less privileged sector of the society
regardless of merit. In other words, their activities have to be in consonance
with the Directive Principles of State Policy and cannot violate the
fundamental rights of their employees or their customers in any manner. If the
activities of a bank before and after nationalisation were the same, there
would have been no justification for nationalisation of the large Indian
banks.
31\. Clause 2 of Article 26 prohibits discrimination between an Indian
enterprise and a French enterprise carrying on the same activities. We are of
the view that a French bank and a nationalised Indian bank do not carry on the
same activities.
32\. As we have seen earlier, the object of bank nationalisation was for the
attainment of the national, social and economic objectives. The banks were
nationalised to help in more effective mobilisation of savings and their
channelisation for productive purposes. It was noted in the objects clause of
the Act of 1980 that since nationalisation of such banks, bank services have
grown rapidly in "under-banked rural and semi-urban areas". There has also
been progressive increase in deployment of bank resources for the neglected
sectors and weaker sections of the society. Foreign banks do not have to
deploy their resources for economic development of the country. Foreign banks
have no obligation to deploy their resources for the neglected sectors and
weaker sections of the society. They do not have to play any role to implement
the 20-point programme. It has been stated in the objects clause that the
public sector banks have undertaken to increase their credit to priority
sectors to 40 per cent. of their total advances over a period of five years.
The activities of the nationalised banks and the foreign banks are quite
different. They are carrying on the same activities in the sense that they are
carrying on banking operations but the main purpose and object of carrying on
banking operations by the nationalised bank is to help the neglected and
weaker sections of the society by deployment of their resources. That was the
whole purpose of nationalisation from which the foreign banks were expressly
excluded. A nationalised bank has to be an instrument of the Government policy
in the implementation of the 20-point programme for economic development of
the country. Forty per cent. of the advances have to be reserved for such
purposes only. These banks have to act in furtherance towards implementation
of Article 39 of the Constitution. It has also to ensure that the material
resources of India are so distributed as to subserve the common good. The
activities which will have to be carried out by the nationalised bank will be
towards achieving the objectives set out in the objects clause of the
Nationalisation Acts. In fact, these were the reasons why the large Indian
private banks were nationalised. The foreign banks were specifically kept out
of the ambit of these two Acts and are entirely free to pursue their
activities as they like with the sole object of profit-making. We are of the
view that the activities which the nationalised banks have to perform and the
activities of the foreign banks are not the "same activities" although both
were engaged in banking business.
33\. We have not specifically dealt with the small Indian private banks which
in any event cannot be equated with large foreign banks.
34\. The second aspect of the question under Article 26(2) of the agreement is
whether taxation has been less favourably levied on a foreign bank by the
Income-tax Act than a similar enterprise in India. The applicant's case is
that a higher rate of tax which has been imposed on a foreign company by the
Finance Act, is not permissible under the DTAA between India and France.
35\. This argument is misconceived. As we have noted earlier in the judgment,
the Finance Acts have consistently drawn a distinction between a domestic and
a non-domestic company. A foreign company which distributes dividends in India
will be treated as a domestic company and will pay the same rate of tax as an
Indian company which declares and distributes dividends in India.
36\. Moreover, Article 26(2) lays down that "taxation on a permanent
establishment. . . shall not be less fovourably levied . . .". This is not a
case where a tax has been imposed upon a French company from which an Indian
company is immune. Both Indian and French companies come equally under the tax
levied by the Income-tax Act. No special tax is levied on a French company in
India. A good example of such a situation has been provided in the case of
Woodend (K. V. Ceylon) Rubber and Tea Co. Ltd. v. IRC [1970] 2 All ER 801,
where the Privy Council had to deal with a case where under the law of Ceylon,
a taxpayer company whose head office was situated in the U.K., had to pay an
additional tax in respect of its profit earned in Ceylon. The Privy Council
held that the additional tax was "other" taxation and came within the mischief
of "the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income Agreement between the United Kingdom and Ceylon".
In that case, however, the levy of this additional tax was ultimately upheld
by the Privy Council on another ground. We shall refer to this later in the
ruling.
37\. In the case before us, the French and the Indian companies have to pay
income-tax. The grievance of the applicant is that they have to pay tax at a
higher rate. Clauses 1 and 2 of Article 26 have used the word "taxation" in
preference to "tax" which has been used in most of the other articles of the
agreement. The meaning of the expression "taxation" as given by New Webster's
Dictionary and Thesaurus [1992] is as under :
"The imposition of a tax : the system by which taxes are imposed : the revenue
obtained by imposing taxes."
The meaning of the expression "taxation" as given in Black's Law Dictionary is
"the process of taxing or imposing a tax."
38\. "Taxation" does not mean "rate of tax" and has not been used in Article
26 in that sense at all. In the DTAA between India and France, the words
"taxation" and "tax" have been used in a number of articles. Both "taxation"
and "tax" have been used in the objects clause of the agreement where the
purpose has been stated to be "avoidance of double taxation and the prevention
of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital". "Taxation"
has again been used in Articles 25 and 26. Article 25 deals with the
elimination of double taxation. It lays down the manner in which double
taxation has to be avoided. Article 26 seeks to prevent discrimination in
taxation between nationals and non-nationals in Clause 1. Clause 2 lays down
that taxation levied on a foreign enterprise by a Contracting State shall not
be less favourable than the taxation on the same activities of the local
enterprise. Clause 5 of Article 26 also refers to "taxation" and speaks of
other or more burdensome taxation. Article 26 has not specifically laid down
that the tax payable by an enterprise of one Contracting State must be at the
same rate as tax payable by a domestic enterprise of a Contracting State. Nor
it has been laid down that the rate of tax payable by a national of one
Contracting State must be the same as payable by the national of the other
Contracting State.
39\. Rate of tax has been specifically mentioned in a number of articles. For
example, Article 9 deals with profits from shipping and lays down that profits
derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State "shall be taxable" only in
that Contracting State. Clause 2 of Article 9 provides that "tax so charged"
shall not exceed 25 per cent. or 50 per cent. as the case may be of "the tax
otherwise imposed by the internal law of the Contracting State".
40\. Article 11 goes to provide that "this paragraph shall not affect the
taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends
are paid".
41\. Article 12 provides for a ceiling on the charge of tax in respect of each
Contracting State and lays down that "the tax so charged shall not exceed 10
per cent. of the gross amount of the interest in certain cases and 15 per
cent. of the gross amount of the interest in all other cases".
42\. Article 13 specifically lays down that in certain circumstances, income-
tax charged shall not exceed 20 per cent. of the gross amount of such
royalties, fees and payments.
43\. Under the Income-tax Act as it stands now, the total income of an
assessee is to be computed under five heads ;
1\. Salaries ;
2\. Income from house property ;
3\. Profits and gains of business or profession ;
4\. Capital gains ;
5\. Income from other sources.
44\. Various reliefs have been given to French nationals or residents or
enterprises under various heads of income under the DTAA. There is a specific
provision for taxing business profits under Article 7. Profits of an
enterprise in France shall be taxable in France unless it carries on business
in India through a permanent establishment in India. The income of a permanent
establishment in India is taxable in India only to the extent to which it is
attributable to that permanent establishment. There are special rules provided
in Article 7 for computation of business profits. Special provisions have been
made for taxing certain categories of business expenditure. Article 8 deals
with air transport. Article 9 deals with shipping. Article 10 deals with
associated companies. Various reliefs have been provided as to the rate of tax
and also computation of quantum of such business profits.
45\. Dividend which falls under the head "Income from other sources" is
taxable at a concessional rate. Under certain special circumstances, interest
is dealt with by Article 12. The manner of taxation at a special concessional
rate of tax is laid down in that article. Similarly, royalties and fees for
technical services are dealt with in Article 13 and the upper limit of rate of
tax is provided for taxing the gross amount of such royalties, fees and
payments. Article 14 also contains rules of computation of capital gains.
Article 21 exempts from tax payments received by students and apprentices in
certain circumstances altogether. The total income of an assessee who is a
resident in France will have to be computed in India after giving these
benefits. In the background of all these articles, it is not possible to hold
that the "non-discrimination" clause was drafted for the purpose of ensuring
that the rate of tax on a French company and an Indian company will be the
same. Article 26 does not speak of rate of tax at all. What has to be seen
under Article 26 is that a French company is not subjected to any tax to which
an Indian company is not subjected. It has also to be seen that the tax law
generally does not place an Indian company at a more advantageous position
vis-a-vis a French company. An overall view of the provisions of the Income-
tax Act will have to be taken for this purpose.
46\. Some arguments were advanced on behalf of the applicant on the
significance of the word "levy" in Article 26 of the Income-tax Act. The word
"levy" has been interpreted by the courts in a number of cases. According to
Black's Law Dictionary (sixth edition), "levy" means "to assess ; raise ;
execute ; exact; tax ; collect; gather ; take up ; seize". Therefore, it will
be seen that the word "levy" can have a number of meanings. It can simply mean
to assess. It can also mean collection of tax. The word has been used in some
statutes to describe the entire process of imposing a charge, assessment of
tax as well as collection of tax. The meaning of the word "levy" has to be
gathered from the context of the statute in which it has been used.
47\. Clause 1 of Article 26 does not use the word "levy" at all. Clause 2 uses
the expression "the taxation ... shall not he less favourably levied..."
Taxation levied on an enterprise normally means, in the context of the Income-
tax Act, levy of income-tax on the income of an enterprise, It merely means
the charging section and the computation section of the Income-tax Act should
not be so drafted as to place the French company in a less favourable position
than the Indian company carrying on the same activities. We have noticed
earlier, that there are a number of articles in the DTAA which specifically
deal with rate of tax. In these articles, the words, "levy" as well as
"taxation" have been scrupulously avoided. Wherever rates of tax have been
mentioned in these articles, the language employed has been "the tax so
charged" shall not exceed the percentage specified in those articles. Having
regard to the context in which the words levy and taxation have been used, we
are of the view that Clause 2 of Article 26 does not place an embargo on
imposing a higher rate of tax on the French concern than on the Indian
concern.
48\. In this connection, it should also be noted that Section 4 of the Income-
tax Act also, inter alia, uses the words. ". . . income-tax at that rate or
those rates shall be charged."
49\. It has to be borne in mind in this connection that under the Income-tax
Act, a large number of concessions are given to a foreign company which are
not available to an Indian company. An Indian company pays tax on its total
world income whereas a foreign company is liable to pay tax only in respect of
income which accrues or arises in India. There are various other concessions
given to a foreign company. Section 115A contains special provisions for tax
on dividends, royalties and technical services fees in the case of a foreign
company. Special concessions have been given to non-resident sportsmen. These
provisions should be contrasted with certain special provisions to which a
foreign company is not subjected. For example, Sections 115-0, 115B and 115Q,
are applicable only to domestic companies. It has also to be noted that the
surcharge imposed by the annual Finance Act is payable only by a domestic
company and not a foreign company. In the background of all these provisions,
it is not possible to hold that a French company has been placed at a more
disadvantageous position than an Indian company under the Income-tax Act by
the levy of a higher rate of tax.
50\. There is yet another aspect of this case. How should the non-
discrimination clause be construed ? We have noticed earlier in the ruling how
rates of tax payable for various types of income have been prescribed. Article
26 speaks generally of taxation. That means Indian tax provisions should not
be more burdensome on a French resident nor place a French concern in a more
disadvantageous position than a similarly circumstanced Indian concern. This
provisions of non-discrimination has nothing to do with rates of tax which
have been dealt with specifically by the other articles of the DTAA. The
agreement in Article 26 has deliberately not used the phraseology "the tax so
charged" as against Articles, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13 which deal, inter alia, with
rates of tax. On the contrary, Article 26 has used the expression levy of
taxation. In the context of all these articles, we are of the view that levy
of taxation in Article 26 is not to be in the sense of prescribing the rate of
tax on the total income of the assessee.
51\. Our attention was also drawn to the contemporaneous agreement which was
entered into with the United Kingdom (hereinafter described as the "U.K.
agreement". Article 26 of the said agreement is set out hereunder (see [1994]
206 ITR (St.) 255, 260) :
Article 26-Non-discrimination :
1\. The nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which
is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances are or may be
subjected.
2\. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises
of that other State carrying on the same activities in the same circumstances
or under the same conditions. This provision shall not be construed as
preventing a Contracting State from charging the profits of a permanent
establishment which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has in the
first-mentioned State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on
the profits of a similar enterprise of the first-mentioned Contracting State,
nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 7 of
this Convention."
52\. Clause 1 of Article 26 of the U.K. agreement is practically identical
with the corresponding provision of Article 26 of the agreement with France
(hereinafter described as the "French agreement").
53\. Clause 2 of the U.K. agreement and the French agreement are also
identical except that in the U.K. agreement a rule of construction has been
provided. The U.K. agreement like the French agreement specifically provides
that a taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in the other State than the taxation levied on enterprises
of that other Contracting State carrying on the same activities. The U.K.
agreement specifically makes it clear that this provision cannot be
interpreted to mean that the rate of tax in respect of a permanent
establishment of a U.K. company and an Indian company must be the same.
54\. How is the French agreement to be construed in the absence of a specific
rule of interpretation as provided by the U.K. agreement ? Can Article 26(1)
and (2) be construed to mean that an enterprise of the French company cannot
be taxed in India at a rate higher than the rate at which an Indian company
has to pay tax ? The U.K. agreement was signed on January 25, 1993, while the
French agreement was signed on September 29, 1992. The contention made on
behalf of the applicant, is that in the absence of a specific rule of
construction, Article 26(2) will have to be construed to mean that a French
enterprise in India cannot be taxed at a rate higher than the rate at which a
similar enterprise in India is taxed.
55\. We are of the view that imposition of a higher rate of tax in respect of
income of a permanent establishment of a French company is not prohibited by
Clause 1 or 2 of Article 26 of the French agreement. Substantially, the non-
discrimination clause of the French and the U.K. agreement are similarly
worded. The rule of interpretation provided by the U.K. agreement does not
have the effect of carving out an exception or introducing a proviso to
Article 26 of that agreement. The non-discriminatory clause will remain in
full force. It only clarifies that the non-discriminatory clause should not be
construed as a bar to imposition of a higher rate of tax on a foreign company.
56\. If a permanent establishment of a U.K. company is taxed at a rate higher
than the rate of tax payable by an Indian company, then the U.K. agreement
does not come in the way. We are of the view that the non-discriminatory
clause both in the French agreement and the U.K. agreement are to be construed
similarly. Merely because a rule of construction which is specifically
provided in the U.K. agreement is absent in the French agreement, does not
lead to the conclusion that the same rule of construction will not apply to
the French agreement.
57\. In our view, the U.K. agreement has made explicit what was implicit in
the French agreement. Clause 2 of Article 26 of the French agreement cannot be
construed to mean that no tax can be levied on a foreign company at a rate
higher than the rate payable by the Indian company. Article 26 of the French
agreement should not be construed as a provision preventing either India or
France from charging tax on the profit of a permanent establishment at a rate
higher than the rate payable by a domestic company on its total income.
58\. Our attention was drawn to Section 90(2) of the Income-tax Act which
provides that if there is any conflict between any provision of the agreement
and that of the Income-tax Act, then the provision which is more beneficial to
the assessee will apply. We do not find any conflict between the provisions of
the Income-tax Act and Article 26. Moreover, the conflict envisage in Section
90(2) must be a conflict between two clear and specific provisions of the
Income-tax Act and the DTAA.
59\. The Income-lax Act, however, does not provide the rate at which income-
tax will have to be levied. The rate is provided by the annual Finance Act and
is determined by the fiscal policy of the Government. Sub-section (2) of
Section 90 does not say that the agreement will override the provision of the
Finance Act by which the rates of tax are fixed annually.
60\. Moreover, if after the agreement has come into force, an Act of
Parliament is passed which contains provisions contrary to Article 26 of the
agreement, the scope and effect of the legislation cannot be curtailed by
reference to the agreement. The agreement was entered into pursuant to the
power conferred upon the Government by Section 90 of the Income-tax Act. A
subsequent legislation cannot be controlled by the agreement. This point was
gone into at length in the case of Woodend (K. V. Ceylon) Rubber and Tea Co.
Ltd. v. IRC [1970] 2 All ER 801 (PC). In that case, the Privy Council had to
consider the scope of the DTAA entered into by the Government of Ceylon with
the U.K. There, the non-discrimination clause contained in Article 18 was as
under (page 803) :
"(1) The residents of one of the territories shall not be subjected in the
other territory to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which
is other, higher or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which the residents of the latter territory are or may be
subjected.
(2) The enterprises of one of the territories shall not be subjected in the
other territory, in respect of profits attributable to their permanent
establishments in that other territory, to any taxation which is other, higher
or more burdensome than the taxation to which the enterprises of that other
territory, and, in the case of companies, to which enterprises of that other
territory incorporated in that other territory, are or may be subjected in
respect of the like profits.
(3) In this article the term 'taxation' means taxes of every kind and
description levied on behalf of any authority whatsoever. . ."
61\. The remainder of the article is not relevant to the issues in the present
case.
62\. The agreement was entered into during 1950 and was given force of law by
an Act called the "Double Taxation (Relief) Act No. 26 of 1950". In 1959, by
an Act of Parliament, an additional tax was imposed in Ceylon on nonresident
companies. It was argued by the taxpayer company which was a non-resident that
the additional taxation was contrary to the Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement (DTAA) between Ceylon and the U.K. The Privy Council after analysis
of the nature of the tax and the scope of article XVIII of the DTAA and
Section 53C(1) of the 1959 Act, came to the conclusion that Section 53C of the
1959 Act was pro tanto in conflict with the 1950 Agreement. The Privy Council
posed the question "What consequence follows ?" It answered the question by
saying that the Act of 1959 must prevail over the 1950 agreement. The Privy
Council rejected the contention of the taxpayer company that the agreement of
1950 must prevail. In coming to this conclusion, the Privy Council relied on
the well-known rule of construction that if the provision of a later enactment
was so inconsistent with or repugnant to the provisions of an earlier one that
the two cannot stand together, the earlier is abrogated by the later.
63\. The Privy Council observed that this rule of construction was more easy
to state than to apply. However, there was no difficulty in application in the
case before it because the 1950 agreement prohibited "other" taxation, etc.
The 1959 Act imposed such "other" taxation under Section 53C. The
inconsistency or repugnance could not be more complete.
64\. The Privy Council, thereafter, posed the question "are there, however,
other considerations which, when taken into account, tilt the balance in
favour of the view that the 1950 Act should nevertheless prevail ?" It was
noted that the agreement to which it gave the force of law was to "continue in
effect indefinitely". If either of the contracting Governments wished to end
it, it was to give written notice to the other before 50th June in any
calendar year not earlier than the year 1954 (article XXI). That procedure was
not followed.
65\. The Privy Council noted that a similar problem was considered by the
House of Lords in Callco Dealings Ltd. v. IRC [1961] 1 All ER 762 ; [1961] 59
TC 509. In that case, there was a Double Taxation Relief Agreement between the
United Kingdom and the Republic of Eire. By a later enactment, Finance (No. 2)
Act, 1955, vide Section 4(2), repayments of income tax were denied to "a
person entitled under any enactment to an exemption from income-tax" where
certain defined circumstances existed. A company resident in Eire claimed that
notwithstanding the existence of such circumstances in its own case, it was
entitled to repayment because the later enactment must be regarded as leaving
such entitlement unaffected.
66\. The House of Lords, however, rejected this contention. Lord Radcliffc
said (page 808) :
"The only one of the appellant company's contentions that appeared to me to
have any plausibility was that which sought to restrict the apparent range of
Section 4(2) of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1955, by the argument that, if
applied to persons enjoying exemption as being resident in the Republic of
Ireland but not also in the United Kingdom, it would contradict the provisions
of the inter-Governmental agreements about double taxation between the two
countries. It is, no doubt, true that statutory words apparently unlimited in
scope may be given a restricted field of application if there is admissible
ground for importing such a restriction ; and the consideration that, if not
construed in some limited sense, they would amount to a breach of
international law is well recognised as such a ground. But a supposed
intention not to depart from observance of the comity of nations is a much
vaguer criterion by which to determine the range of a statute ; and when the
departure consists in no more than a provision inconsistent with an inter-
Governmental agreement about taxation which by its own terms is subordinated
to the approval of the respective Legislatures of the countries concerned and
persists only so long as its terms are maintained in force as law by those
Legislatures, I think that there is no useful aid at all to be obtained from
this principle of interpretation. The principle depends wholly on the
supposition of a particular intention in the Legislature, and I do not think
that in the case before us there is any reason to make the supposition which
is suggested."
67\. Following the principles laid down by the House of Lords in Collco
Dealings Ltd.'s case [1961] 1 All ER 762, the Privy Council in Woodend's case
[1970] 2 All ER 801, held that there was no reason to curtail the meaning to
be given to Section 53C of the Ceylon Act only because the provisions of
Section 53C of the 1959 Act were in conflict with the 1950 Agreement. The
provisions of the later Act must prevail. In Woodend's case [1970] 2 All ER
801, the Privy Council came to its decision after rejecting an argument (at
page 809 of the Report) that Articles VI and XVIII of the Agreement did not
have the force of law.
68\. Consistent with the ruling of the House of Lords in Callco Dealings
Ltd.'s case [1961] 1 All ER 762, the Supreme Court of India has also held as
under in Gramophone Co. of India v. Birendra Bahadur Pandcy, AIR 1984 SC 667,
at 671 :
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
cannot be reduced by relying upon Article 26 of the DTAA between India and
France.
71\. The question raised is answered in the negative and against the
applicant.
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
on capital entered into by the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French Republic, whether the applicant is chargeable to tax
in respect of income earned from business, as computed under Article 7 of the
treaty from the assessment year 1996-97, at the rate applicable to a domestic
company, in so far as is beneficial to the applicant."
2\. The Revenue has raised a preliminary point. Whether this application made,
can be entertained at all. The objection raised on the behalf of the Revenue
is that the applicant is carrying on banking business in India for the past
several years. It is regularly filing its returns as per the Income-tax Act
and is being assessed accordingly. Therefore, this applicant is precluded from
making this application for advance ruling. The expression "advance ruling"
has been defined in Section 245N in the following manner.
"245N. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) 'advance ruling' means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application in relation to a transaction which
has been undertaken, or is proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant ;"
3\. Section 245(R)(2) lays down thus :
"The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application :
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
on capital entered into by the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French Republic, whether the applicant is chargeable to tax
in respect of income earned from business, as computed under Article 7 of the
treaty from the assessment year 1996-97, at the rate applicable to a domestic
company, in so far as is beneficial to the applicant."
2\. The Revenue has raised a preliminary point. Whether this application made,
can be entertained at all. The objection raised on the behalf of the Revenue
is that the applicant is carrying on banking business in India for the past
several years. It is regularly filing its returns as per the Income-tax Act
and is being assessed accordingly. Therefore, this applicant is precluded from
making this application for advance ruling. The expression "advance ruling"
has been defined in Section 245N in the following manner.
"245N. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) 'advance ruling' means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application in relation to a transaction which
has been undertaken, or is proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant ;"
3\. Section 245(R)(2) lays down thus :
"The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application :
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
on capital entered into by the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French Republic, whether the applicant is chargeable to tax
in respect of income earned from business, as computed under Article 7 of the
treaty from the assessment year 1996-97, at the rate applicable to a domestic
company, in so far as is beneficial to the applicant."
2\. The Revenue has raised a preliminary point. Whether this application made,
can be entertained at all. The objection raised on the behalf of the Revenue
is that the applicant is carrying on banking business in India for the past
several years. It is regularly filing its returns as per the Income-tax Act
and is being assessed accordingly. Therefore, this applicant is precluded from
making this application for advance ruling. The expression "advance ruling"
has been defined in Section 245N in the following manner.
"245N. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) 'advance ruling' means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application in relation to a transaction which
has been undertaken, or is proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant ;"
3\. Section 245(R)(2) lays down thus :
"The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application :
Provided that the Authority shall not allow the application except in the case
of a resident applicant where the question raised in the application,--
(a) is already pending in the applicant's case before any income-tax
authority, the Appellate Tribunal or any court ;
(b) involves determination of fair market value of any property ;
(c) relates to a transaction which is designed prima facie for the avoidance
of income-tax . . ,"
4\. The determination of a question of law or fact in relation to a
transaction which has been undertaken or proposed to be undertaken by the
applicant can be referred to this Authority. It is not the case of the Revenue
that the question raised in this application has already been decided by
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and
on capital entered into by the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the French Republic, whether the applicant is chargeable to tax
in respect of income earned from business, as computed under Article 7 of the
treaty from the assessment year 1996-97, at the rate applicable to a domestic
company, in so far as is beneficial to the applicant."
2\. The Revenue has raised a preliminary point. Whether this application made,
can be entertained at all. The objection raised on the behalf of the Revenue
is that the applicant is carrying on banking business in India for the past
several years. It is regularly filing its returns as per the Income-tax Act
and is being assessed accordingly. Therefore, this applicant is precluded from
making this application for advance ruling. The expression "advance ruling"
has been defined in Section 245N in the following manner.
"245N. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) 'advance ruling' means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application in relation to a transaction which
has been undertaken, or is proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant ;"
3\. Section 245(R)(2) lays down thus :
"The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application :
Provided that the Authority shall not allow the application except in the case
of a resident applicant where the question raised in the application,--
(a) is already pending in the applicant's case before any income-tax
authority, the Appellate Tribunal or any court ;
(b) involves determination of fair market value of any property ;
(c) relates to a transaction which is designed prima facie for the avoidance
of income-tax . . ,"
4\. The determination of a question of law or fact in relation to a
transaction which has been undertaken or proposed to be undertaken by the
applicant can be referred to this Authority. It is not the case of the Revenue
that the question raised in this application has already been decided by
"National courts cannot say 'yes' if Parliament has said 'no' to a principle
of international law. National courts will endorse international law but not
if it conflicts with national law, national courts being organs of the
National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply
national law if international law conflicts with it. But the courts are under
an obligation within legitimate limits, to so interpret the municipal statute
as to avoid confrontation with the comity of nations or the well established
principles of international law. But if conflict is inevitable, the latter
must yield."
69\. In the instant case, the provisions of the relevant Finance Act are quite
clear. A non-domestic company has to pay taxes at the given rate in the
Finance Act. Even if the rates are higher than the rates payable by a domestic
company, the rate fixed by an Act of Parliament cannot be whittled down by
reference to the provisions of an earlier agreement between India and France
even if such agreement has the force of law.
70\. Therefore, in our view, the rate of tax payable by a non-domestic company
