Rajasthan High Court
Onkar Lal vs State Of Rajasthan on 30 May, 2003
Equivalent citations: RLW 2004 (2) Raj 934, 2003 (4) WLC 172
Author: Mathur
Bench: N Mathur, K Acharya
JUDGMENT Mathur, J.
1\. The learned Single Judge has referred following question for adjudication
:-
"Whether the right of the accused to move an application under Section 13 Sub-
section (2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 is extinguished
if he docs not submit an application for sending one of the sample to Central
Food Laboratory, for analysis, within the period of ten days from that of
receiving a copy of the receipt of the Public Analyst ?"
2\. The view that an application for sending one of the samples to the Central
Food Laboratory filed under Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food
Adulteration Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") beyond the period of
ten days from the date of the receipt of the copy to the public Analyst taken
by the learned Single Judge of this court in Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan
(1), relying on the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram v. State of M.P.
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
relying on the earlier decision of this court in Joga Ram v. State (4), and
N.K. Dixit v. C.J.M., Sitapur (5). The learned Single Judge in Hanuman v.
State (supra), has distinguished the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra). In Joga Ram v. State (supra). The court held that
accused has a right to request the court to send one of the samples to the
Central Food Laboratory for analysis and the application for sending the
sample to the Central Food Laboratory may be filed after the institution of
the case till the case is finally disposed of and the court is duty bound to
send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory.
3\. In Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the accused petitioner Vijay
Raj was facing trial in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur for the offence under Section 7/16 of the Act. According to
prosecution, sample of chilies powder was taken on 29th July, 89 by the Food
Inspector. After analysis by the Public Analyst, the sample was found not
conforming to the prescribed standard of purity. The complainant was examined
on 5.1.95. The charge was framed on 8th August, 95 and thereafter, further
evidence of the prosecution was taken. The complainant closed his evidence and
the accused petitioner was examined Under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He was then
asked to produce his evidence. On 19th August, 1995, the accused petitioner
moved an application under Section 13(2) of the Act to get the sample of the
article of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central
Food Laboratory, Calcutta in his defence under Section 247 read with Section
243(2) Cr.P.C. The application of the accused was rejected by the learned
Chief Judicial Magistrate by his order dated 22nd August, 1995 on the ground
that the application was not filed within a period of ten clays from the dale
of receipt of a copy of the Public Analyst. A revision petition was filed by
the accused against the order passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur. The revision petition was dismissed by the learned Additional
Sessions Judge No. 1, Jodhpur by his order dated 17.11.1995 after hearing both
the parties. Feeling aggrieved by the orders passed by the learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Jodhpur and the Additional Sessions Judge No. 1, Jodhpur,
the petitioner filed a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. before this Court.
The learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the both the courts
below erred in rejecting the application of the accused to get the sample
analysed by the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta in his defence as
contemplated under Section 247 read with Section 243 Cr.P.C. The argument
advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner was that the accused
petitioner was at liberty to lead a defence evidence by procuring a report
from the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta to rebut the prosecution case and
the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate was bound to call for any document in
defence and his denial tentamounts to negation of right to lead evidence in
defence. It was further submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner
that it is a basic principle of Criminal Jurisprudence which has been
incorporated under Section 247 read with Section 243 Cr.P.C. that an accused
is entitled to every opportunity to meet the prosecution and prove his
innocence. Therefore, in complaint filed under Section 7/16 of the Act, the
accused would be at liberty to claim that sample kept with the Local (Health)
Authority be sent to the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta for analysis. On
the above mentioned grounds, it was contended by the learned counsel for the
petitioner that denial of chance to adduce evidence in defence for incorrect
reasons amounts to flagrant violation of the mandatory provisions contemplated
under Section 243 Cr.P.C. Reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the
petitioner on the decision given by this Court in Joga Ram v. Stale (supra).
4\. In view of the submissions made by the learned counsel for the petitioner,
the learned Judge considered the following three questions :-
"(1) Whether Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rule
9A of the Rules framed thereunder had the effect of repealing, altering or
modifying Section 247 read with Section 243, Cr.P.C. ?
(2) Whether right of the accused-petitioner to claim to send the sample for
analysis to the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta under Section 247 read with
Section 243 Cr.P.C. is an absolute right of the accused-petitioner and
Magistrate cannot refused to send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory,
Calcutta even if he is of the opinion, that such application has been moved to
defeat the mandatory provisions contemplated under Section 13(2) of the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rules framed thereunder?
(3) Whether if legislature provides a particular thing to be done in a
particular manner, does it amount that it has prohibited to do the same thing
in any other manner"
5\. The learned Single Judge held that since the case was instituted on the
complaint filed by the Food Inspector, the provisions of Section 247 Cr.P.C.
were attracted to the case and this section provides that after conclusion of
complainant's evidence, the accused be called upon to end his defence and
produce his evidence and provisions of Section 243 shall apply. The learned
Judge took notice of the amendments made in Section 13(2) of the Act by Act
No. 34 of 1976 and the amendment of Rule 9A of the Rules, which amendment came
into force w.e.f. 04.01.1977. Regarding the first question, the learned Judge
held :
"In my humble opinion, the provisions contemplated under Section 247 read with
Section 243(3) Cr.P.C. will be deemed to be altered and amendment to the
extent of their inconsistency with the mandatory provisions contemplated under
Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rule 9A framed
thereunder and an argument contrary to it is not acceptable."
6\. Regarding the second question, the learned Single Judge held :
"In my considered opinion, the cumulative effect of the aforesaid discussions
would be that in view of the specific provisions contemplated under Section
13(2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rule 9A of the Prevention
of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955, the accused-petitioner can be permitted to
adduce all evidence in his defence under Section 247 read with Section 243
Cr.P.C. to rebut the prosecution case and to prove his innocence except making
an application to the court after expiry of period of ten days from the making
an application to the court after expiry of period of ten days from the date
of receipt of the copy of the Analyst's report to get the same of the article
of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central Food
Laboratory."
It was further observed :-
"I am also of the opinion that right of the accused-petitioner to claim to
send the sample for analysis to the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta under
Section 247 read with Section 243 Cr.P.C. is not an absolute right. A Court
can refuse to send sample for analysis to the Central Food Laboratory, if it
is of the opinion that the application is made at the stage of Section 247
Cr.P.C. to defeat the mandatory provisions contemplated under Section 13(2) of
the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rule 9A of the Rules framed
thereunder."
Regarding the third question, the learned Judge observed :-
"It is well to remember that when Parliament provides a specific procedure to
make an application to the court within a period of ten days from the date of
receipt of the copy of the Public Analyst report to get the sample of the
article of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central
Food Laboratory, Calcutta then it must be presumed that Parliament has
prohibited the accused-petitioner to move such an application before a Court
after expiry of the aforesaid period at the stage of Section 247, Cr.P.C."
7\. The decision given by another learned Single Judge of this Court in Joga
Ram v. State (supra), held to be not applicable in view of the decision given
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsi Ram v. State of M.P. (supra). The
learned Judge observed as under:-
"I am further of the opinion that the decision rendered by the learned Single
Judge of this Court in the case of Joga Ram (supra) and decision rendered by
the learned Single Judge of Allahabad High Court in the case of Bharam Swaroop
(supra), do not hold water in view of the decision rendered by the Apex Court
in the case of Tulsi Ram (supra)."
8\. The provisions of Section 13(2) of me Act were considered by the learned
Single Judge in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (supra). While deciding that
case, the decision given in the case of Vijay Raj v. State (supra), was not
brought to his notice. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra), was considered. For the reasons given in the
judgment, the conclusion was expressed in the following words :-
"For the reasons mentioned above, the view taken by the learned Chief Judicial
Magistrate that the right conferred by Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food
Adulteration Act is not exercised by the accused within the period of ten days
prescribed by Section 13(2), then such right shall stand extinguished as
erroneous and the provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure as well as the
words used in Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. The
order dated 22.3.96 passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate deserves
to be quashed and set aside and is quashed and set aside."
9\. In Joga Ram v. State (supra) and Hanuman v. State (supra), it has been
held that the accused can move an application for sending one of the samples
to the Central Food Laboratory for analysis, at any time after the institution
of the case to the conclusion of the trial and the application of the accused
cannot be rejected on the ground that it was filed after the expiry of the
period of ten days prescribed by Section 13(2) of the Act. On the hand, in
Vijay Raj v. State (supra), a learned Single Judge of this Court has taken the
view that if the application for sending one of the samples to the Central
Food Laboratory for analysis is made after the expiry of the period of ten
days from the date of receipt of a copy of the report of the Public Analyst,
then such application would not be maintainable in spite of the provisions
contained in Sections 2343 and 247 Cr.P.C. (1973).
10\. In Vijay Raj v. State (supra), the learned Judge has held that in view of
the observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsi Ram v. State of
M.P. (supra), the decision of this Court in Joga Ram v. State (supra), is no
longer a good law. In view of this observation, it is necessary to consider
whether the observations made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsi Ram v.
State of M.P. (supra), declare the law relating to the rights of the accused
under Section 13(2) of the Act and Section 243/247 Cr.P.C. ? In order to
answer the above question, it would be proper to refer to the provisions of
Section 13(2) of the Act and the relevant changes made in Section 13(2) as
well as Rule 9 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955 as follows
:-
"(A) Sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act.
(1) Before the amendment made by the PFA (Amendment) Act No. 34 of 1976.
"Section 13(2)-After the institution of a prosecution under this Act, the
accused vendor or the complainant may, on payment of the prescribed fee, make
an application to the court for sending the part of the sample mentioned in
Sub-clause (i) or Sub-Clause (iii) of Clause (c) of Section 11, to the
Director of the Central Food Laboratory for a certificate, and on receipt of
the application the court shall first ascertain that the mark and seal or
fastening as provided in Clause (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 11 are
intact and may then despatch the part of the sample under its own seal to the
Director of the Central Food Laboratory, who shall thereupon send a
certificate to the court in the prescribed form within one month from the date
of receipt of the sample, specifying the result of his analysis,"
(2) After the amendment made by PFA (Amendment) Act, No. 34 of 1976, "Section
13(2)-On receipt of the report of the result of the analysis under Sub-section
(1) of the effect that the article of food is adulterated, the Local (Health)
Authority shall after the institution of prosecution against the person from
whom the sample of the article of food was taken and the person, if any, whose
name, address and other particulars have been disclosed under Section 14A,
forward, in such manner as may be prescribed, a copy of the report of the
analysis to such person or persons, as the case may be, informing such person
or persons that if it is so desired, either or both of them may make an
application to the court within a period of ten days from the date of receipt
of the article of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the
Central Food Laboratory."
11\. A bare perusal of Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act as it was
before the amendment made in 1976 and as it is after the amendment made in
1976, shows, thus-
"(1) Period within which a copy of the report of the Public Analyst is to be
sent to the accused person/persons, was neither prescribed in this sub-section
before the amendment made in 1976, nor the amended sub-section prescribes any
period within which the copy of the report of the Public Analyst is to be sent
to the accused. It is left to the Rule making authority to prescribe the
manner as well as the period within which the copy of the report of the Public
Analyst is to be sent to the accused person/persons.
(2) Period within which the accused was permitted to move an application under
Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act, for sending one part of the sample
to the Central Food Laboratory for analysis, was not prescribed in Sub-section
(2) of Section 13, before the amendment made in 1976.
After the amendment made in 1976, Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act
provides that the accused person/persons, may move an application for sending
one part of the sample to the Central Food Laboratory "within ten days of the
receipt of the copy of the report of the Public Analyst."
(3) The Legislature has not indicated expressly or by implication what would
be the consequence if the Food Inspector/Local (Health) Authority does not
send the report of the Public Analyst in accordance with the Rules, nor it is
indicated whether the right to the accused to move the Court for sending one
part of the sample to Central Food Laboratory for analysis shall be
extinguished if the application is not filed within ten days prescribed by
Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act as it stands after the amendment made
in 1976.
(B) Rule 9(j) and Rule 9-A of the P.F.A. Rules 1955, indicated the manner as
well as the period within which the copy of the report of the Public Analyst
is to be sent to the accused person/persons.
(1) In the beginning, Sub-rule (j) of Rule 9 of the PFA Rules of 1955
prescribing the manner of sending a copy of the report to the accused. It read
:-
"R, 9(j) To send by hand or registered post a copy of the report received in
Form III from the Public Analyst to the person from whom sample was taken in
case it is found to be not conforming to the Act or Rules made thereunder, as
soon as the case is filed in the Court."
(2) Sub-rule (j) of Rule 9 was latter on amended and the amended rule read:-
"Rule 9(j) To wend by registered post as copy of the report in Form III from
the Public Analyst to the person from whom the sample was taken within ten
days of the receipt of the said report. However, in case the sample conforms
to the provisions of the Act or Rules made thereunder then the person may be
informed of the same and report need not be sent."
(3) Rule 9(j) was deleted and Rule 9-A was inserted by GSR 4(E) dated
4.1.1977. Rule 9-A read :-
"R. 9-A Local (Health) Authority to send report to person concerned-The Local
(Health) Authority shall immediately after the institution of prosecution
forward copy of the report of the result of analysis in Form III delivered to
him under Sub-rule (3) of Rule 7, by registered post or by hand as may be
appropriate, to the person from the sample of the article was taken by the
Food Inspector, and simultaneously also to the person, if any, whose name,
address and other particulars have been disclosed under Section 14A of the
Act. ......."
(4) Rule 9-A of the Rules of 1955 was amended by GSR 500(E) dated 9.7.1984.
The amended Rule 9-A reads :-
"Rule 9-A- Local (Health) Authority to send report to person concerned-The
Local (Health) Authority shall within a period of ten days after the
institution of prosecution forward a copy of the report of the result of
analysis in Form III delivered to him under Sub-rule (3), of Rule 7, by
registered post or by hand, as may be appropriate, to the person from whom the
sample of the article was taken by the Food Inspector and simultaneously also
to the person whose name, address and other particulars have been disclosed
under Section 14A of the Act."
12\. A bare perusal of Sub-rule (j) of Rule 9, before and after amendment made
in it and of Rule 9-A, before and after the amendment made in 1984, shows,
thus-
"(1) That Rule 9(j) and after the deletion of Rule 9(j), Rule 9-A, indicates
when the report of the Public Analyst is to be sent to the accused
person/persons.
(2) Under Rule 9(j) (before its amendment) and under Rule 9-A before and after
the amendment made in 1974, a copy of report of the Public Analyst is to be
sent to the accused after the filing of the case/institution of the
prosecution in the Court. But under Rule 9(j) (after it was amended the copy
of the report of the Public Analyst was to be supplied to the accused "within
ten days of the receipt of the said report" irrespective of the date on which
the case was filed/prosecution was initiated in the Court.
(3) Under Rule 9(j), (before its amendment) the copy of the report was to be
sent to the accused, "as soon as the case is filed in the court." After the
amendment made in Rule 9(j), the copy of the report of the Public Analyst was
to be sent to the accused "within ten days of the receipt of the report. After
the deletion of Rule 9(j), Rule 9-A came into force in 1977 and under Rule 9-A
came into force in 1977 and under Rule 9-A (before the amendment made in it in
1984), the copy of the report of the Public Analyst was to be sent to the
accused, "immediately after the institution of prosecution". After the
amendment made in Rule 9-A in 1984, the copy of the report of the Public
Analyst is required to be sent to the accused, within a period of ten days
after the institution of prosecution."
13\. Since Rule 9(j) and after its deletion Rule 9-A of the PFA Rules, 1955,
when the report of the Public Analyst was to be sent to the accused, as soon
as there was delay in sending a report of the Public Analyst to the accused,
it was pleaded by the accused that a mandatory provision was violated and the
accused was entitled to be acquitted. Consequently the question whether the
provisions of Rule 9(j) and Rule 9-A of the PFA Rules, 1955 are mandatory was
considered by the High Courts and the Hon'ble Supreme Court in several cases,
held to be directory. It would be useful to refer to following decisions of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court.
14\. In Dalchand v. Municipal Corporation, Bhopal (6), the Hon'ble Supreme
Court considered whether the provision of Rule 9(j) (as it was after the
amendment) which provided that a copy of report of the Public Analyst was to
be sent to the person from whom sample was taken "within ten days of the
receipt of such report" was mandatory. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held that
Rule 9(j) was directory. The decision given in Dalchand's case was considered
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tulsiram's case (supra), wherein the Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed :-
"The mention of ten days as the period within which the Food Inspector was to
send the report of the Public Analyst to the person from whom the sample was
taken led to considerable controversy whether Rule 9(j) was mandatory or
directory. Some High Courts took the view that Rule 9(j) was mandatory and
that failure to strictly comply with the rule was fatal to the prosecution.
The matter was finally set at rest by this Court in Dalchand v. Municipal
Corporation, Bhopal (1), where it was held that Rule 9(j) was directory. It
was held that Rule 9(j) was directory. It was observed: (SCC para 1, pp
486-87: SCC (Cri) pp 11-12) There are no ready tests or invariable formula to
determine whether a provision is mandatory or broad purpose of the statute is
important. The object of the particular provision must be considered. The
weighing of the consequences of holding a provision to be mandatory or
directory is vital and; move often than not, determinitible of the very
question whether the provision is mandatory or directory. Where the design of
the statute is the avoidance or prevention of particular provision literally
to its letter will tend to defeat that design, the provision must be held to
be directory, so that proof of prejudice in addition to non-compliance of the
provision is necessary to invalidate the act complained of. It is well to
remember that quite often many rules, though couched in language which appears
to be imperative, are no more than mere instructions to those entrusted with
the task of discharging statutory duties for public benefit. The negligence of
those to whom public duties are entrusted cannot by statutory interpretation
be allowed to promote public mischief and cause public inconvenience and
defeat the main object of the statute. It is as well to realise that every
prescription of a period within which an act must be done, is not the
prescription of a period of limitation with painful consequences if the act is
not done within that period. Rule 9(j) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration
Act, as it then stood merely instructed the Food Inspector to send by
registered post copy of the Public Analyst's report to the person from whom
the sample was taken within 10 days of the receipt of the report. Quite
obviously the period of 10 days was not a period of limitation within which an
action was to be initiated or on the expiry of which a vested right accrued.
The period of 10 days was prescribed with a view to expedition and within the
object of giving sufficient time to the person from whom the sample was taken
to make such arrangements as he might like to challenge the report of the
Public Analyst, for example by making a request to the Magistrate to send the
other sample to the Director of the Central Food Laboratory for analysis.
Where the effect of non compliance with the rule was such as to wholly deprive
the right of the person to challenge the Public Analyst's report by obtaining
the report of the Director of the Central Food Laboratory, there might be just
cause for complaint, as prejudice would then be writ large. Where no prejudice
was caused, there could be no cause for complaint. I am clearly of the view
that Rule 9(j) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules was directory not
mandatory."
15\. After the deletion of Rule 9(j) of the PFA Rules 1955 in 1977, Rule 9-A
came into force. Before the amendment made in 1984, Rule 9-A required that the
copy of the report of the Public Analyst be sent to the accused, "immediately
after the institution of prosecution." In Tulsi Ram's case (supra), the
Hon'ble Supreme Court considered whether the provision of Rule 9- A was
mandatory or was directory and it was held that the provisions of Rule 9-A was
directory not mandatory. In Tulsi Ram's case, their Lordships of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court reiterated the principles laid down in Dalchand's case (supra),
and considered the question in detail.
Regarding the object of Sub-section (2) of Section 13(2) of the PFA Act, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed at page 490-491 of (1984) SCC :-
"It is obvious that Section 13(2) was intended to secure to the accused vendor
the right to have the report of the Public Analyst tested if he so wanted, by
obtaining the final and conclusive report of the Director of the Central Food
Laboratory. In order to enable the accused vendor to exercise this right it
was necessary to first make available to him the report of the Public Analyst.
So, Rule 9(j) provided that a copy of the report of the Public analyst should
be sent to the person from whom the sample was taken within ten days of the
receipt of the report of the Food Inspector."
16\. After considering Section 13(2) and other Sub-sections of Section (after
the amendment made in 1976), the Hon'ble Supreme Court at page 495 observed :-
"The amended Section 13 requires the Public Analyst to deliver to the Local
(Health) Authority a report of his analysis. Section 13(2) requires the Local
(Health) Authority to forward to the person from whom the sample was taken a
copy of the report of the Public Analyst's, if the report is to the effect
that article of food is adulterated. The report is to be forwarded in such
manner as may be prescribed, after the institution of the prosecution.
Thereafter, the person from whom the sample was taken in given the right to
apply to the Court within ten days of the receipt by him of the copy of the
Public Analyst's report to get the sample kept by the Local (Health) Authority
analysed by the Central Food Laboratory. It is no longer open to the accused-
vendor to wait till the very last minute to apply to the court to have the
sample analysed by the Central Food Laboratory. If he wants to exercise the
statutory right of having sample analysed by the Central Food Laboratory he
has to exercise that right by applying to the court within ten days of receipt
by him of the Public Analyst's report. It is also to be noticed that amended
Section 13(2) does not prescribe any point of time before which the report of
the Public Analyst is to be forwarded to the accused vendor. But the very
basis of a prosecution for adulteration of food is the report of the Public
Analyst that the article of food is adulterated. The accused is given the
right to dispute the Public Analyst's report by applying to the court for an
analysis by the Central Food Laboratory."
17\. Regarding the meaning of the expression "immediately" used in Rule 9-A of
the PFA Rules (as it was before the amendment made in 1984), the Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed :-
"What meaning is to be adopted depends on the context. Rule 9-A is made in the
context of amended Section 13(2) which provides for the forwarding of the
Public Analyst's report to the person from whom the sample was taken after the
institution of prosecution and enables that person to apply to the court to
have analysed by the Central Food Laboratory, the sample kept with the Local
(Health) Authority. In the context the expression "immediately" is only meant
to convey 'reasonable despatch and promptitude' and no more. The idea is to
avoid dialatoriness on the part of the occicialdom and prevention of
unnecessary harassment to the accused. But the idean is not to penalise the
prosecution and to provide a technical defence. First to consture
'immediately' as meaning 'at once' or 'forthwith' and next to hold delay to be
fatal to the prosecution would perhaps be to make Rule 9-A ultravires Section
13(2), if after receiving the Public Analyst's report, he never sought to
apply to the court to have the sample sent to the Central Food Laboratory as
in the present case, he may not be heard to complain of the delay in the
receipt of the report by him, unless, of course, he is able to establish some
other prejudice. ........ What must be done is to forward the report at the
earliest opportunity, so as to facilitate the exercise of the statutory right
under Section 13(2) in good and sufficient time before the prosecution
commences leading evidence. Non-compliance of Rule 9-A is not fatal. It is a
question of prejudice."
18\. In the same case (Tulsi Ram's case (supra), their Lordships of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court pointed out the object behind the amendment in Section
13(2) in the following words :-
"The working of the Act also revealed that often enough the accused vendor
would adopt dilatory tactics by waiting till the last minute to exercise his
rightly to apply to the court to send the Director of Central Food Laboratory.
This statutory right could not be denied to the accused vendor even when made
at the very last stages of the case. The result was not merely undue and
unnecessary delay in the disposal of the case but fairly frequently, it would
be discovered that the sample had disintegrated due to lapse of time, thus
disabling the Director, Central Food Laboratory from analysing the sample.
With a view to overcome the difficulties entered in the working of the Act.
Section 11 and 13 were recast by the amending Act of 1976 and new Rules were
made in 1977, new Rule 9-A replacing old Rule 9(j)."
19\. Two things are clear by the above observations;(1) that under Section
13(2) of the Act, the accused vendor had the statutory right to apply to the
court for sending one of the samples to the Central Food Laboratory for
analysis and this right could be exercised upto the last stage of the case;
and (2) that often the sample, was disintegrated by the time it reached the
Director, Central Food Laboratory, and the Director could not analysis it and
this gave opportunity to the accused to raise the plea that he was prejudiced
in his defence. It may be mentioned here, that under Section 243 and 247 of
the Criminal Procedure Code, the right to produce evidence in defence is made
available to the accused after the prosecution has produced its evidence and
the statement of the accused has been recorded. Want of opportunity to
exercise the right to produce defence, before the prosecution evidence was
produced, forced the accused to wait till the prosecution evidence was fully
produced, to apply to the court under Section 13(2) of the Act to 2nd one
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory. There was thus necessity of
giving to the accused 'additional opportunity' before the prosecution produced
its evidence, to move an application under Section 13(2) of the Act, for
sending one sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory. The amendment was
therefore made in Section 13(2) with a view to enable the accused vendor to
move an application under Section 13(2) for sending one sample to the Central
Food Laboratory, even before he was called upon to produce his evidence in
defence under Section 243/247 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
20\. After carefully going through the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in Dalchand v. Municipal Corporation, Bhopal (supra), and in Tulsi Ram v.
State of M.P. (supra), it is not possible to subscribe the view that the
Hon'ble Supreme Court intended to lay down the law, that the provisions of
Section 13(2) of the Act, which prescribes the period of ten days for moving
an application for sending one of the samples to Director, Central Food
Laboratory, is mandatory nor it is possible to hold that the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has declared the law that the object behind prescribing the period of
ten days for making application to Court for sending one part of sample to
Central Food Laboratory, was to penalise the accused, by extinghising his
right under Section 13(2) of the Act, if he failed to move the application to
the Court within the period of ten days from the date of receipt of the report
of the Public Analyst. In other words, there is no such declaration of law in
Tulsi Ram's case as may render the decision given by this Court in Joga Ram's
case (supra) not a good law.
21\. The decision given in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (supra) for taking
the view that the right under Section 13(2) of the Act was not extinguished
even if the application for sending one part of the sample to the Central Food
Laboratory was not moved within the period of ten days referred in Section
13(2), is supported by the decision given in Joga Ram's case.
22\. Every criminal trial including the trial for the offence punishable under
Section 7/16 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, is governed by two
important rules of procedure. The first is that the burden to prove the guilt
is always on the prosecution and this burden never shifts to the accused. This
rule is founded on the law relating to burden of proof contained in the
Evidence Act. Since the burden of proof is always on the prosecution, there is
the maxim that an accused is presumed to be innocent till he is found guilty
of the offence with which he is charged.
23\. The second important rule governing criminal trials is that the accused
person must be given opportunity to defend himself against the charge made
against him. This rule is founded on the fundamental right under Article 22(2)
of the Constitution. The law as to burden of proof, and the law conferring
right on the accused to defend himself against the charge, together constitute
the 'procedure established by law' for the purpose of Article 21 of the
Constitution which confers one of the most important fundamental rights namely
the right against deprivation of life or personal liberty except according to
procedure established by law.
24\. In addition to the provisions of Evidence Act, which place burden of
proof of guilt on the prosecution, Article 21 of the Constitution also places
the burden of proving that the Act resulting in deprivation of life or
personal, liberty is according to procedure established by law, one the State
functionary who wants to deprive any person of his life or personal liberty.
Thus, there are two laws (a) the law contained in the Evidence Act and (b) the
fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, which place the burden
of proving guilt, on the prosecution.
25\. The law relating to burden of proof, simultaneously does two things; (i)
it imposes a positive duty on the party on which the burden to prove the fact
in question is place and (ii) it creates a corresponding right in the other
party, which right is to the effect that unless the positive duty to prove the
fact in question is discharged, no finding shall be given against it. From
this right emerges the right to be acquittal if the quilt is not proved by the
prosecution. This right, which arises from the law relating to burden of
proof, is very important, in view of the 'right to silence' available to the
accused during the trial. Right to silence enables the accused to decide for
himself, whether he should appeal in his defence and to further decide, when
and at what stage of the trial he should speak. The accused cannot be forced
to speak if he decides not to speak nor the accused can be forced to speak at
a point or during a certain stage, when he does not to speak in his defence.
Thus the following principles appear to be applicable to the criminal trials
:-
"(1) the burden to prove the guilt is always on the prosecution and this
burden never shifts to the accused. The accused is therefore entitled to be
acquitted, if the prosecution fails to prove the guilt. He need not say
anything in his defence nor he need produce any evidence in his defence.
Therefore, so on the prosecution has not produced evidence to prove the charge
against an accused, the accused cannot be asked to give his statement nor he
can be asked to produce his evidence in defence.
(2) in every criminal trial, the accused has unfettered right to silence. He
may choose to remain silence either during the whole of the trial or during
any part of the trial and no one can force the accused to say anything against
his will.
(3) in every criminal trial, the accused has the right to be defended against
the charge and this right has its origin in the Criminal Procedure Code from
which the right has been lifted to Article 22(2) of the Constitution of India
and given the status of a fundamental right. This right to be defended against
the charge accrues to the accused right from the moment he is arrested or
process is issued against him and lasts till the trial is finally concluded.
The duration for which this right is available to the accused is the period
from the instituting of the prosecution to the final conclusion of the trial.
Anything which extinghishes the right to be defended, before the trial is
finally concluded, would be ultravires Article 22920 of the Constitution."
26\. For reasons mentioned above, it is difficult to hold that the intention
behind enacting Section 13(2) of the Act, was to compel the accused person to
exercise his right to be defended even before the prosecution proved the
charge made by it and to extinguish this right if the application was not
filed within the period of ten days referred in Section 13(2) of the Act. In
our considered opinion, unless the law as to burden of proof is changed and
burden to prove the innocence is placed on the accused, the accused cannot be
compelled to speak in his defence nor he can be compelled to produce evidence
in his defence, before the prosecution has proved the charge by producing its
evidence. In view of the right to silence available to the accused, no accused
person can be compelled to speak if he decided not to speak at all either
during the whole trial or at any stage of the trial and in view of the right
to be defended against the charge, which right has the status and sanctity of
a fundamental right under the Constitution, the right to be defended cannot be
terminated before the final conclusion of the trial.
27\. The view that Section 13(2) of the Act and Rule 9-A of the Rules, alters
the provisions of Section 243 and 247 of the Criminal Procedure Code, so far
as the right to defend by sending one of the samples to the Central Food
Laboratory is concerned, it is sufficient to refer to the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ram Dayal v. Municipal Corporation Delhi (7).
28\. In that case the samples sent to the Public Analyst was analysed and the
report was received from him on 10th September, 1965 to the effect that Laddus
were adulterated with unpermitted colour. Thereafter, a complaint was filed
against the accused and he was convicted by the Magistrate on October 17, 1966
and sentenced to imprisonment till the rising of the Court and to pay a fine
of Rs. 1,000/- in default to undergo six months R.1. The Municipal Corporation
filed a revision before the learned Sessions Judge for the enhancement of the
sentence. The Sessions Judge after hearing the parties accepted the contention
of the Municipal Corporation that minimum sentence of imprisonment for six
months and a fine of Rs. 1,000/- should have been imposed by the trial Court.
The learned Sessions Judge, therefore, referred the case to the High Court
recommending that the accused having been found guilty under the provisions of
Section 16 of the Act should have been awarded awarded a minimum sentence of
six months and a fine of Rs. 1,000/-. Before the High Court, several
contentions were raised on behalf of the accused. One of the contentions was
that the request of the accused for summoning the Public Analyst for cross-
examination had not been acceded to, and therefore, the accused had been
prejudiced, as such the entire proceeding against him were vitiated. The High
Court rejected this contention on the ground that Section 510 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure 1898 had no application in that it. It was dealt with
Chemical Examiner or any Assistant Chemical Examiner and other experts
mentioned therein. The High Court further observed that where the accused
desired to challenge the report of the Public Analyst under the Act, he had to
follow the procedure provided in Section 13(2) for sending the sample to the
Director of Central Food Laboratory for his examination, because any report
given by him will supersede the report of the Public Analyst and would be
final and conclusive as to the facts stated therein. Before the Hon'ble
Supreme Court, it was contended by the learned counsel for the accused that
the application made on behalf of the accused Under Section 510(2) for calling
the Public Analyst, which was summarily rejected on 28th August, 1966, and
therefore, the accused had been prejudiced and the proceedings as such were
vitiated. The Hon'ble Supreme Court considered the contentions of the learned
counsel for the accused. At page 37 of the report, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
observed :-
"The learned Advocate for the accused submits that the refusal of the Court to
grant the application of the accused to call the Public Analyst Shri Sudhama
Rao for cross-examination has greatly prejudiced him, as such the conviction
sought to be quashed. It is contended that the accused has a valuable right of
cross-examination to test the contents of the report given by the Public
Analyst and the Court has to summon him if so desired. On the other hand it is
contended both the Shri Bishan Narain for the Delhi Municipality as well as
Dr. Singhvi for the Union of India that no such right has been conferred under
the Act when the provisions of Section 13(2) have not only made the document
signed by the Public Analyst to be used in evidence of the facts stated
therein any proceedings under the Act, or under Sections 272 to 276 of the
Indian Penal Code but has given a right to the accused to have the sample sent
to the Director of the Central Food Laboratories under Section 13(2) whose
report supersedes that of the Public Analyst and is final and conclusive. In
view of these provisions it is said that the Legislature inferentially took
away the right of the accused to summon the Public Analyst either for
examination or cross-examination, as such the analogy of Section 510(2) of the
Criminal Procedure Code which specifically gives a right to summon and examine
the Chemical Examiner and other experts therein stated, as to the subject-
matter of their respective reports has no relevance. Dr. Singhvi further
contends that there are a class of cases which permit of trails by
certificates where the general rule of evidence that every document in order
to be admissible has to be proved by the person signing it has no application
as the statute permits it to be proved without calling the author of it."
29\. Their Lordships of the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered three questions:-
"(1) Whether the certificate of the expert could be challenged by the accused
in cases where such certificate was made admissible in evidence without its
formal proof?
(2) Whether the accused was entitled Under Section 510 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 to move an application to the Court to summon the Expert, so
as to examine him regarding the subject matter of the report; and (3) Whether
the provisions of Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act by
implication took away the right conferred on the accused by Section 510
Cr.P.C. to move an application for calling an expert, who issued the
Certificate ?
Regarding the first question, their Lordships laid down the law in the
following words :-
"While it cannot be disputed that there are certain classes of cases where
certificates have been treated as conclusive evidence, there were yet others
though admissible without calling the functionaries that gave them were
nonetheless only prima facie evidence. In cases where the certificates are not
to be treated as conclusive evidence and they are only prima facie evidence,
the party against whom they are produced has a right to challenge the subject-
matter of the certificate ..............It appears to us that where
certificates are not made final and conclusive evidence of the facts stated
therein, it will be open to the party against whom certificates which, are
declared to be sufficient evidence either to rebut the facts stated therein by
his own or other evidence or to require the expert to be produced for cross-
examination which prayer the Court is bound to consider on merits in granting
or rejecting it. There is no presumption that the contents are true or correct
though such a certificate is evidence without formal proof. In any case where
there is evidence to the contrary the Court is bound to consider that evidence
along with such a certificate with or without the evidence of the expert who
gave it being called and come to its own conclusion."
Regarding the second question, their Lordships observed :-
"The statutes have also in some cases recognised this right, such as for
instance in Sub-section (2) of Section 510, Criminal Procedure Code in respect
of reports given under the hand of several experts named in Sub-section (1)
notwithstanding the fact that they may be used in evidence in enquiry, trial
or other proceedings under the Code. Sub-section (2) provides: "The Court ;
may if it thinks fit, and shall, on the application of the prosecution or the
accused, summon and examine any such person as to the subject matter of the
report". Similarly, Sub-section (1) of Section 110 of the English Food and
Drugs Act, 1955, while providing that the production by one of the parties of
the certificate of a Public Analyst in the form prescribed in Section 92(5) or
of a document supplied to him by the other party as being a copy of such
certificate shall be sufficient evidence of the facts stated therein unless in
the first mentioned case the other party requires that the analyst shall be
called as a witness. Sub-section (2) of Section 110 also give a like
opportunity in the case of a certificate of an officer who took a sample of
the milk."
Regarding the third question, viz. whether the provisions of Section 13(2) of
the Act took away the right of the accused to move an application Under
Section 510(2) Cr.P.C. to summon the Expert was taken away, their Lordships
declared the law in the following words :-
is true that Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act has given a right both
to the accused as well as the complainant on payment of the prescribed fee to
apply to the Court after the prosecution has been instituted to send part of
the sample preserved as required under Sub-section (i) or Sub-clause (ii) of
Clause (c) of Sub-section (1) of Section 11 to the Director of the Central
Food Laboratory for a certificate, and the Court is bound to send it under its
seal to the said Director who has to submit a report within one month from the
date of the receipt. This certificate under Sub-section (3) supersedes the
Public Analyst's certificate and is conclusive and final order under Sub-
section (5). But nothing contained in these sub-sections relating to
certificate of the Director of the Central Food Laboratory in any way limits
the right of the accused under Section 257 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
to require the Public Analyst to be produced."
30\. Section 257 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, is similar to the
provisions contained in Sections 243/247 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973. In our opinion, the law laid down in Ram Dayal's case (supra), nothing
contained in subsections of Section 13 of the Act regarding the certificate of
the Director of the Central Food Laboratory in any way limits the right of the
accused under Section 257 Cr.P.C., is applicable to the provisions of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and therefore, it is difficult for us to
subscribe to the view that Section 13(2) of the Act and Rule 9-A of the Rules
of 1955 in any way takes away the right of the accused to produce the evidence
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
Central Food Laboratory for analysis within a period often days is directory
in nature. The reference stands answered accordingly.
32\. Let the matter be placed before the learned Single Judge for the decision
of the Misc. Petition one merits.
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
relying on the earlier decision of this court in Joga Ram v. State (4), and
N.K. Dixit v. C.J.M., Sitapur (5). The learned Single Judge in Hanuman v.
State (supra), has distinguished the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra). In Joga Ram v. State (supra). The court held that
accused has a right to request the court to send one of the samples to the
Central Food Laboratory for analysis and the application for sending the
sample to the Central Food Laboratory may be filed after the institution of
the case till the case is finally disposed of and the court is duty bound to
send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory.
3\. In Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the accused petitioner Vijay
Raj was facing trial in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur for the offence under Section 7/16 of the Act. According to
prosecution, sample of chilies powder was taken on 29th July, 89 by the Food
Inspector. After analysis by the Public Analyst, the sample was found not
conforming to the prescribed standard of purity. The complainant was examined
on 5.1.95. The charge was framed on 8th August, 95 and thereafter, further
evidence of the prosecution was taken. The complainant closed his evidence and
the accused petitioner was examined Under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He was then
asked to produce his evidence. On 19th August, 1995, the accused petitioner
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
relying on the earlier decision of this court in Joga Ram v. State (4), and
N.K. Dixit v. C.J.M., Sitapur (5). The learned Single Judge in Hanuman v.
State (supra), has distinguished the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra). In Joga Ram v. State (supra). The court held that
accused has a right to request the court to send one of the samples to the
Central Food Laboratory for analysis and the application for sending the
sample to the Central Food Laboratory may be filed after the institution of
the case till the case is finally disposed of and the court is duty bound to
send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory.
3\. In Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the accused petitioner Vijay
Raj was facing trial in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur for the offence under Section 7/16 of the Act. According to
prosecution, sample of chilies powder was taken on 29th July, 89 by the Food
Inspector. After analysis by the Public Analyst, the sample was found not
conforming to the prescribed standard of purity. The complainant was examined
on 5.1.95. The charge was framed on 8th August, 95 and thereafter, further
evidence of the prosecution was taken. The complainant closed his evidence and
the accused petitioner was examined Under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He was then
asked to produce his evidence. On 19th August, 1995, the accused petitioner
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
relying on the earlier decision of this court in Joga Ram v. State (4), and
N.K. Dixit v. C.J.M., Sitapur (5). The learned Single Judge in Hanuman v.
State (supra), has distinguished the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra). In Joga Ram v. State (supra). The court held that
accused has a right to request the court to send one of the samples to the
Central Food Laboratory for analysis and the application for sending the
sample to the Central Food Laboratory may be filed after the institution of
the case till the case is finally disposed of and the court is duty bound to
send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory.
3\. In Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the accused petitioner Vijay
Raj was facing trial in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur for the offence under Section 7/16 of the Act. According to
prosecution, sample of chilies powder was taken on 29th July, 89 by the Food
Inspector. After analysis by the Public Analyst, the sample was found not
conforming to the prescribed standard of purity. The complainant was examined
on 5.1.95. The charge was framed on 8th August, 95 and thereafter, further
evidence of the prosecution was taken. The complainant closed his evidence and
the accused petitioner was examined Under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He was then
asked to produce his evidence. On 19th August, 1995, the accused petitioner
moved an application under Section 13(2) of the Act to get the sample of the
article of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central
Food Laboratory, Calcutta in his defence under Section 247 read with Section
243(2) Cr.P.C. The application of the accused was rejected by the learned
Chief Judicial Magistrate by his order dated 22nd August, 1995 on the ground
that the application was not filed within a period of ten clays from the dale
of receipt of a copy of the Public Analyst. A revision petition was filed by
the accused against the order passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur. The revision petition was dismissed by the learned Additional
Sessions Judge No. 1, Jodhpur by his order dated 17.11.1995 after hearing both
the parties. Feeling aggrieved by the orders passed by the learned Chief
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
(2), is in conflict with the view taken in Hanuman v. State of Rajasthan (3),
relying on the earlier decision of this court in Joga Ram v. State (4), and
N.K. Dixit v. C.J.M., Sitapur (5). The learned Single Judge in Hanuman v.
State (supra), has distinguished the decision of the Apex Court in Tulsi Ram
v. State of M.P. (supra). In Joga Ram v. State (supra). The court held that
accused has a right to request the court to send one of the samples to the
Central Food Laboratory for analysis and the application for sending the
sample to the Central Food Laboratory may be filed after the institution of
the case till the case is finally disposed of and the court is duty bound to
send the sample to the Central Food Laboratory.
3\. In Vijay Raj v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the accused petitioner Vijay
Raj was facing trial in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur for the offence under Section 7/16 of the Act. According to
prosecution, sample of chilies powder was taken on 29th July, 89 by the Food
Inspector. After analysis by the Public Analyst, the sample was found not
conforming to the prescribed standard of purity. The complainant was examined
on 5.1.95. The charge was framed on 8th August, 95 and thereafter, further
evidence of the prosecution was taken. The complainant closed his evidence and
the accused petitioner was examined Under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He was then
asked to produce his evidence. On 19th August, 1995, the accused petitioner
moved an application under Section 13(2) of the Act to get the sample of the
article of food kept by the Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central
Food Laboratory, Calcutta in his defence under Section 247 read with Section
243(2) Cr.P.C. The application of the accused was rejected by the learned
Chief Judicial Magistrate by his order dated 22nd August, 1995 on the ground
that the application was not filed within a period of ten clays from the dale
of receipt of a copy of the Public Analyst. A revision petition was filed by
the accused against the order passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jodhpur. The revision petition was dismissed by the learned Additional
Sessions Judge No. 1, Jodhpur by his order dated 17.11.1995 after hearing both
the parties. Feeling aggrieved by the orders passed by the learned Chief
in his defence under Section 247 Cr.P.C. In our opinion, the provisions
contained in Section 13(2) of the Act are solely for the benefit of the
accused to that he may exercise his right to defend himself against the charge
under Section 7/16 of the Act by requesting the Court to send one part of the
sample to the Director, Central Food Laboratory for analysis so that the
report of the Public Analyst, on the basis of which the prosecution is
instituted, may be tested and the period of ten days prescribed in Section
13(2) of the Act is merely to emphasise the necessity of sending one part of
the sample to the Central Food Laboratory at the earliest opportunity so that
the food article of which sample has been taken, may not be deteriorate,
rendering it impossible for the Director, Central Food Laboratory to analyse
it and to enable the accused to move an application under Section 13(2) of the
Act, even before the production of evidence by the prosecution to prove the
charge against him.
31\. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that provisions of Section
13(2) of the Act to submit the application for sending one of the sample to
