Central Government Act
The National Service Act, 1972
THE NATIONAL SERVICE ACT, 1972  
ACT NO. 28 OF 1972 [ 9th June, 1972.]  
An Act to provide for the registration of qualified persons and for the
rendering of national service by such persons and for matters connected
therewith.  
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty- third Year of the Republic of India
as follows:-  
CHAP  
PRELIMINARY  
CHAPTER I  
PRELIMINARY  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
(1) This Act may be called the National Service Act, 1972 .
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint.
2. Definitions. in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
any work in any establishment and includes any person entrusted with the
supervision and control of qualified persons in such establishment.
(b) " establishment" means-
(i) any office, or
(ii) any place where any industry, trade, business or occupation is carried
on, and includes any technical in- stitution or training centre;
(c) " national service" means any service which is likely to assist the
defence of India and civil defence or the efficient conduct of military
operations and includes such social service as the Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that it is necessary for public purposes so to do, by
notification specify in this behalf;
(d) " notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(e) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) " qualified person" means a citizen of India who is ordinarily resident in
India and who,-
(i) has obtained a recognised medical qualification within the meaning of the
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , or
(ii) has obtained, or has passed an examination which entitles him to obtain,
a degree of a University or its equivalent qualification in any branch of
engineering or technology or both. Explanation.- For the purposes of this Act,
a qualified person who is resident in India shall be deemed to be ordinarily
resident there unless--
(a) he is residing there only for the purposes of attending a course of
education; or
(b) the circumstances of his residence there are otherwise such as to show
that he is residing there for a temporary purpose only; or
(c) he, being a person who was born or domiciled in any country outside India,
has been resident in India for less than two years. CHAP LIABILITY OF PERSONS
TO RENDER NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER II LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO RENDER NATIONAL
SERVICE
3. Liability of persons to be called up for national service.
(1) Every person who-
(a) is a qualified person at the commencement of this Act, or
(b) becomes a qualified person after such commencement, shall, if he has not
attained the age of thirty years at such commencement or, as the case may be,
on the date on which he becomes a qualified person, be liable until he attains
the age of thirty years, to be called up for national service for a period of
not more than four years.
(2) The period of national service for which a qualified person shall be
liable to be called up under this Act shall begin from the date on which he is
required by an enlistment notice served under this Act to present himself to
the authority specified therein and shall end on the day when his term of
national service is completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
4. Voluntary service in lieu of national service.
(1) If a qualified person has been enlisted under any other law for the time
being in force, for service in one of the Armed Forces of the Union for a
period of not less than four years, he shall perform the service required of
the members of that Force in lieu of the national service required under this
Act.
(2) If a qualified person has rendered or is rendering service, other than
service in one of the Armed Forces of the Union and such service is declared
by the Central Government to be equivalent to national service, the period of
such service shall be deemed to be service in lieu of the national service
required under this Act and he shall (unless he has ceased to be liable under
this Act to be called up for national service) be liable to be called up for
national service for such term as will, together with the service completed by
him, be equivalent to the term of service for which persons are liable to
serve under this Act.
(3) If any qualified person has been enlisted as a member of-
(a) the Indian Reserve Forces, regulated under the Indian Reserve Forces Act,
1888 , (4 of 1988 .)
(b) the Territorial Army constituted under the Territorial Army Act, 1948 ,
(56 of 1948 .)
(c) the Air Force Reserve or the Auxiliary Air Force Reserve constituted under
the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Force Act, 1952 , (62 of 1952 .)
(d) the Indian Naval Reserve Forces raised and maintained under the Navy Act,
1957 , (62 of 1957 .) or
(e) any other Force of the foregoing nature, he shall not be called up, so
long as he continued to be a member of that Force, to render national service
under this Act Provided that he shall, after he has ceased to be a member of
such Force, be liable to render national service (unless he has ceased to be
liable under this Act to be called up for national service), for such term as
will, together with the actual service rendered by him as a member of that
Force, be equivalent to the term of service for which persons are liable to
serve under this Act.
5. Liability to complete interrupted service. If any qualified person serving in the Armed Forces of the Union ceases to serve therein before he has completed four years of such service, he shall, unless he has ceased to be liable under this Act to be called up for national service, be liable to be called up to serve for such term as will, together with the service completed by him, be equivalent to the term of service for which persons are liable to serve under this Act.
6. Power of Central Government to direct a person to render service with the Armed Forces of Union or other national service. Subject to the provisions of section 3, the Central Government may, by order, require a qualified person to render service in the Armed Forces of the Union or such other national service, as it may specify in this behalf, for such period and at such place as may be specified in the order.
7. Discipline.
(1) Every qualified person enlisted under this Act for national service in the
Armed Forces of the Union shall, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed, be bound to serve in any branch of the Armed Forces to which he is
for the time being attached, and shall be subject to all laws, rules,
regulations and orders in force for the time being in relation to such branch.
(2) Every qualified person enlisted for any national service, other than
service in the Armed Forces of the Union shall, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, be bound to serve in any position or post to which he is
appointed for the time being, and shall be subject to all laws, rules,
regulations and orders in force for the time being in relation to such
position or pos
8. Power of Central Government to require any employer to release qualified Persons.
(1) The Central Government may, by order in writing, require any employer to
release any qualified person for employment in national service within such
time as may be specified in the order.
(2) Where an employer releases a qualified person for employment in national
service, such employer shall not be liable to pay the salary, wages and other
emoluments, if any, of the qualified person for the period during which
national service is or has been rendered by the qualified person.
(3) No contract, subsisting between a qualified person and his employer on the
date of release of the qualified person for employment in national service,
shall be enforceable until such qualified person has been discharged from
national service.
(4) In computing the period specified in any contract of service in relation
to a qualified person who has been called upon to render national service, the
period of national service actually rendered by such qualified person shall be
excluded.
(5) If any employer fails without sufficient cause to comply with the order
made under sub- section (1), he shall be liable to be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and also with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees.
9. Transfer. The Central Government may, by regulations, make provisions for enabling or requiring a qualified person rendering national service in any branch of the Armed Forces of the Union to be transferred to any other branch of that Force or to any other branch of national service or vice versa.
10. Persons not to leave national service or be discharged therrefrom unless permitted by Central Government.
(1) No qualified person rendering national service under this Act shall leave-
such service until he is discharged therefrom under section 17.
(2) No qualified person who has been served with a notice under sub- section
(1) of section 13 or an enlistment notice under section 14 shall, if he is in
any employment at the date of service of such notice, leave such employment or
be discharged therefrom, except in accordance with the provisions of this Act:
Provided that nothing in this sub- section shall apply where the employment of
a qualified person is terminated for the reason that the said person has been
guilty of gross insubordination, habitual absence from work, or serious
misconduct or has been convicted of an offence.
(3) If a qualified person who has been served with a notice under sub- section
(1) of section 13 or an enlistment notice under section 14 leaves any
employment in which he is engaged at the date of service of such notice or is
discharged therefrom otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, he or, as the case may be, the person by whom he is discharged, shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and also
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, CHAP REGISTRATION AND
ENLISTMENT FOR NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER III REGISTRATION AND ENLISTMENT FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
11. Persons required to register.
(1) Every qualified person shall, if he is liable, at the commencement of this
Act, to be called up for national service, make an application, within ninety
days from such commencement, to be registered under this Act.
(2) Every qualified person who becomes liable after the commencement of this
Act, to be called up for national service, shall, within thirty days from the
date on which he becomes so liable, make an application to be registered under
this Act.
12. Registration.
(1) The Central Government shall, by general order, direct qualified persons
who are required to be registered under this Act,-
(a) to furnish at such place and time, in such manner and to such authority or
person as may be specified therein, such particulars about themselves as the
order may require; and
(b) to make at such place, in such manner and to such authority or person as
may be specified in the order, an application to be registered under this Act.
(2) The order made under sub- section (1) may make different pro- visions in
relation to different classes of qualified persons subject to registration and
may provide for exempting from any requirements of the order of any class of
qualified persons with respect to whom the Central Government is satisfied
that particulars sufficient for the purposes of this Act can be ascertained
otherwise than by virtue of those requirements.
(3) If any qualified person fails to comply with any requirement of the order
made under sub- section (1), he shall be liable to be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
(4) The Central Government shall ensure-
(a) that upon an application duly made for registration under this Act, the
name and address of the applicant together with the particulars of the matters
with respect to which information was given by the applicant in pursuance of
the order made under sub- section (1) are entered in a register kept for the
purposes of this Act, to be known as the" National Service Register"; and
(b) that upon the applicant being registered, a certificate of registration is
issued to the applicant in the prescribed form.
(5) The information contained in the National Service Register shall not be
used for any purpose other than the purposes of this Act:
Provided that nothing in this sub- section shall preclude the Central
Government from disclosing, for statistical purposes, any information
contained in the National Service Register.
(6) The Central Government may cause registration to be made of, and a
certificate of registration to be issued to, any qualified person of a class
exempted from any of the requirements of sub- section (1) as if that person
had duly applied to be registered under this Act.
(7) (a) If any qualified person subject to registration under this Act
communicates to the Central Government in the prescribed manner, that he has a
preference for the Army, Air Force or Naval Service, that fact shall be
recorded in the National Service Register.
(b) If a qualified person belonging to a class which is exempted from
registration under this Act has a preference for the Army, Air Force or Naval
Service, he shall intimate such preference to the Central Government in such
manner as that Government may specify and, on receipt of such intimation, the
Central Government shall cause such preference to be recorded in the National
Service Register.
(8) (a) If any change occurs in the name or address of any qualified person
while such person remains registered under this Act, or if any such person
acquires any additional academic or professional qualification or distinction,
he shall forthwith communicate the change of his name or address, or, as the
case may be, the acquisition by him of additional academic or professional
qualification or distinction to the Central Government in the prescribed
manner and at the same time return to the Central Government, for correction,
any certificate of registration held by him and if he fails to communicate the
change of his name or address, or, as the case may be, the acquisition by him
of the additional academic or professional qualification or distinction, he
shall be liable to be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees.
(b) Upon the receipt of a communication of the change of name or address of
any qualified person registered under this Act or of acquisition by him of
additional academic or professional qualification or distinction, the Central
Government shall cause the necessary corrections to be made in the entries in
the National Service Register and shall either cause the certificate to be
corrected and returned to such person or cause a fresh certificate to be
issued to him.
(9) The Central Government may, by rules made under this Act, provide for the
issue, in specified circumstances, of fresh certificates of
registration in place of certificates which have been lost, destroyed or
defaced.
13. Notice of likelihood of calling up for national service.
(1) The Central Government may from time to time cause to be served on any
qualified person subject to registration under this Act, and, if he is engaged
in any employment, also on his employer, a written notice in the prescribed
form stating that such person is likely to be called upon, at any time within
a period of twelve months next following to render national service.
(2) Omission to serve any notice referred to in sub- section (1) on an
employer or the service of such notice on a person who is not, at the time of
service of such notice, the employer of the qualified person concerned, shall
not invalidate the notice served under sub- section (1) on the qualified
person and shall not affect the liability of the qualified person to be called
up for national service.
(3) The Central Government may cause to be served, on any qualified person
served with a notice referred to in sub- section (1), a written notice
requiring that person to submit himself to an examination, by such authority,
at such place and at such time, as may be specified in the notice, of his
physical and mental fitness for being called up for national service.
(4) The Central Government may make regulations for the exami- nation of the
physical and mental fitness of persons subject to registration under this Act
and such regulations may, in particular, enable the medical and other
authority-
(a) in a case where he is unable to complete the examination on one occasion,
to direct the person examined to submit himself for a further examination on a
specified time and place;
(b) to direct the person examined to submit himself for examination by a
specialist;
(5) The Central Government may by regulations determine the categories in
which persons examined under this section are to be placed with reference to
their physical and mental condition.
(6) If any qualified person fails to comply with the requirements of a notice
served on him under sub- section (3) or any regulations made or directions
given under sub- section (4), he shall be liable to be punished with-
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
(7) The court by which a qualified person is convicted of an offence under
this section may, without prejudice to any penalty which may be imposed on
him, order him to submit himself to an examination of his physical and mental
fitness, further examination or examination by a specialist, as the case may
be, at such place and at such time as may be fixed by the court and any such
order may provide that such person shall be detained in custody until that
time and shall be taken by a police officer to that place and at that time:
Provided that no person shall be detained in custody by virtue of any such
order for more than twenty- four hours.
(8) A qualified person who, having been ordered by a court under sub- section
(7) to submit himself to an examination of his physical and mental fitness and
to be detained in custody, is taken by a police officer to the place and at
the time at which he is to be examined, does not submit himself to an
examination of his physical and mental fitness in accordance with the order,
he may be arrested by that or any other police officer without a warrant.
(9) A qualified person, who fails to submit himself to an examination of his
physical and mental fitness in accordance with an order made under sub-
section (7), shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three years, and also with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.
(10) A notice served on any qualified person under this section shall cease to
have effect if, before that date on which he is required to submit himself to
an examination of his physical and mental fitness, he ceases to be subject to
registration under this Act.
(11) The Central Government may pay to the medical or other authority,
specialist, or any qualified person undergoing examination of his physical and
mental fitness under this section such travelling and other allowances,
including compensation for loss of remunerative time, in accordance with such
scales as may be prescribed.
14. Enlishment for nation. l service.
(1) Subject to such priorities as may be prescribed, the Central Government
may cause to be served on any qualified person for the time being liable under
this Act to be called up for national service, who has been found, after an
examination of his physical and mental condition, fit for such service, a
written notice in the prescribed form (in this Act referred to as the"
enlistment notice") stating that he is called up for national service in such
one of the Armed Forces of the
Union or in such other service as may be specified in the enlistment notice
and requiring him to present himself at such place and at such time and to
such authority, as may be specified in the notice: Provided that an enlistment
notice under this section shall not require the person upon whom it is served
to present himself on a day earlier than the fourteenth day after the date of
service of the notice or such earlier day as may be determined at his request.
(2) An enlistment notice served on any qualified person shall cease to have
effect if, before the day on which he is thereby required to present himself,
he ceases to be liable to be called up for national service under this Act.
(3) The Central Government may pay to persons required to present themselves
in pursuance of an enlistment notice served upon them travelling and other
allowances in accordance with such scales as may be prescribed.
(4) If on the day specified in the enlistment notice as the day on which the
person to whom the notice relates is required to present himself for national
service-
(a) a postponement certificate relating to him is in force, or
(b) any appeal or application by him for postponement of national service is
pending, the enlistment notice served on him shall be of no effect.
(5) The enlistment notice shall be served in such manner as may be prescribed.
15. Salary, wages, etc., and travelling allowances to be paid to persons enlisted for national service.
(1) Every qualified person who is called up for national service under this
Act, or who is transferred from one form of national service to another, shall
be paid such salary, wages, allowances, pension, disability and death
compensations and other benefits as may be prescribed. Provided that such
payments shall be on scales not less favourable than those admissible to
persons of like qualifications, experience and length of service in similar
positions under the Government. Explanation.- For the purposes of the f[
oregoing proviso, the length of standing of a qualified person as an engineer
or medical practitioner, as the case may be, shall be construed as the length
of his service.
(2) Any qualified person who is called up for national service or transferred
from one form of national service, or from one place of
employment in the national service, to another, shall be paid travelling
allowance for journey to his place of employment under this Act at such rate
as may be prescribed.
(3) A qualified person who, on the date of the service of the enlistment
notice on him, is engaged in any employment, or a qualified person who is
transferred from one form of national service, or from one place of employment
in the national service, to another, shall be paid, for the period of his
transit from the place of his former employment to the place of his employment
under this Act, salary or wages (including allowances) at the rate fixed by
the Central Government under sub- section (1).
(4) A qualified person who was in any employment on the date on which he was
called up for national service under this Act, shall, on his discharge from
such service, be paid salary or wages (including allowances) for the period of
his transit from the place of his employment under this Act to the place of
his former employment at the rate fixed by the Central Government under sub-
section (1).
(5) A qualified person who is called up for national service under this Act
shall, on the termination of his national service, be paid travelling expenses
at such rate as may be prescribed, for journey to the place of his former
employment, or, if he was unemployed when he was first called up for national
service under this Act, to the place of his residence.
16. Training. During his term of national service a qualified person may be required to undergo training for such period as may be prescribed.
17. Discharge.
(1) Every qualified person enlisted under this Act shall be entitled to
receive his discharge from national service on the expiration of the period
for which he was enlisted and such person may, prior to the expiration of that
period, be discharged from national service by such authority and subject to
such conditions as may be prescribed.
(2) A person receiving discharge under this section shall be given a
certificate in such form as may be prescribed certifying that he has been
discharged from national service.
(3) A person who has received discharge under this section shall not be
required to render national service after such discharge: Provided that a
person who has received discharge under this section before he has completed
four years of national service, shall, unless he
has ceased to be liable to be called up for national service under this Act,
be liable to be called up for national service under this Act for such term as
will, together with the period of national service rendered by him, be
equivalent to four years. CHAP POSTPONEMENT OF NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER IV
POSTPONEMENT OF NATIONAL SERVICE
18. National Service (Hardship) Commitee.
(1) The Central Government shall constitute a National Service (Hardship)
Committee consisting of a Chairman and two other members appointed by it.
(2) The Chairman of the National Service (Hardship) Committee shall be a,
person who is, or has been, or is qualified to be, a Judge of a High Court.
(3) The members of the National Service (Hardship) Committee shall hold office
for a period of three years but shall be eligible for reappointment.
(4) The proceedings of the National Service (Hardship) Committee shall not be
invalid by reason of any defect in the constitution of, or any vacancy in,
such Committee.
(5) Any vacancy in the National Service (Hardship) Committee shall be filled
by the Central Government in such manner as it may think fit.
(6) The Central Government may constitute Regional National Service (Hardship)
Committees for such regions as it may think fit and on such constitution such
Regional National Service (Hardship) Committees shall have all the powers,
functions and privileges of the National Service (Hardship) Committee and
shall be subject to the same provisions as are applicable to that Committee.
(7) The National Service (Hardship) Committee shall have power to regulate its
own procedure with regard to any investigation under this Act and shall have
for the purposes of such investigation the powers of a civil court while
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 , (5 of 1908 ). in
respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents producible as
evidence;
(c) receiving evidence on oath;
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witness or documents;
(e) such other matters as may be prescribed.
19. Application for postponement on grounds of hardship.
(1) Any qualified person who is for the time being liable to called up for
national service under this Act and who has been served with a notice referred
to in sub- section (1) of section 13, or any employer of such qualified
person, may apply, in the prescribed manner to the Central Government for a
certificate of postponement of liability to be called up for national service
on the ground that exceptional hardship would ensue if such qualified person
were called up for national service, and may, on that ground apply, in the
prescribed manner, for the rene- wal of the postponement certificate granted
to him.
(2) Where an application for a postponement certified or for the renewal
thereof is made, the Central Government shall refer the appli- cation for
decision to the National Service (Hardship) Committee.
(3) No application for the grant of a postponement certificate shall be
referred by the Central Government to the National Service (Hardship)
Committee unless such application is made within sixty days from the date of
service of the notice referred to in sub- section (1) of section 13: Provided
that the Central Government may refer an application for the grant of a
postponement certificate to the National Service (Hard- ship) Committee made
after the expiry of the said period if it is satisfied, having regard to the
grounds on which the application is made, that the making thereof has not been
unreasonably delayed.
(4) The Central Government may by regulations specify the principles to be
applied and the circumstances to which regard is to be or not to be had for
the hearing of an application for the grant or renewal of a postponement
certificate and as to the period for which the postponement certificate may be
granted or renewed.
(5) The National Service (Hardship) Committee may, after consi- deration of
the application for a postponement certificate or renewal thereof, grant or
reject the same.
(6) The period within which the postponement certificate is in force shall be
added to the period during which the person to whom the certificate was
granted is liable under this Act to be called up for national
service and accordingly this Act shall in relation to that person have effect
as if for reference therein to the age of thirty years, there were
substituted, an age being the sum of thirty years and the period during which-
(i) the postponement certificate is in force, and
(ii) the enlistment notice was of no effect by reason of the provisions of
clause (b) of sub- section (4) of section 14.
(7) If any qualified person or an employer makes an application for a
postponement certificate on a ground which he knows to be false or does not
believe to be a true or on a ground which, in the opinion of the National
Service (Hardship) Committee, is frivolous, he shall be liable to be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
20. Appeal from decision of the National Service (Hardship) Committee.
(1) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), an appeal shall lie against
the decision of the National Service (Hardship) Committee to the High Court
exercising jurisdiction in relation to the territory in which the applicant
for the postponement certificate voluntarily resides, carries on business or
personally works for gain.
(2) No appeal referred to in sub- section (1) shall lie unless-
(i) it is preferred within thirty days from the date of the decision of the
National Service (Hardship) Committee, and
(ii) the National Service (Hardship) Committee certifies that the case
involves a substantial question of law.
(3) Where the National Service (Hardship) Committee has refused to live a
certificate referred to in sub- section (2), the High Court may, if it is
satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law, grant special
leave to appeal against the decision of the National Service (Hardship)
Committee.
(4) The High Court may, after hearing the appeal, confirm, modify or reverse
the decision of the National Service (Hardship) Committee.
21. Revocation of postponement certificate.
(1) If, at any time, while a postponement certificate is in force, it appears
to the Central Government that, by reason of any change in the circumstances
of the qualified person to whom the certificate was
granted or of his employer, where such certificate was granted on the
application of such employer, the certificate ought to be revoked or the
period for which it was granted or last renewed ought to be shortened, the
Central Government may apply to the National Service (Hardship) Committee, and
that, Committee may either reject the application or cancel the certificate or
vary it by shortening the period.
(2) Where an application is made under sub- section (1), the person to whom
the postponement certificate in question was granted, and where such
certificate was granted on the application of an employer, such employer,
shall be entitled to be heard on the application and the provisions as to
appeals contained in section 20 shall apply in relation to the application as
if it were an application for the grant of a postponement certificate.
22. Suspension of right to postponement of liability to be called up for national service.
(1) The Central Government may, if it is satisfied at any times that by reason
of the gravity of the situation it is necessary so to do, by order-
(a) cancel, either generally or in relation to a specified class of qualified
persons, all postponement certificates in force at the date of the order, and
(b) abrogate, either generally or in relation to a specified class of
qualified persons, any right to apply for the grant of a postponement
certificate and any right to appeal from the refusal to grant such a
certificate, and may, by order, vary or revoke any order in force under this
section, without prejudice however to the previous effect of that order.
(2) Where, on the day on which an order comes into force under this section
abrogating any right to appeal from the refusal to grant a postponement
certificate, an appeal preferred by a person to whom the order applies or the
time for preferring such appeal by such person has not expired, the appeal
shall be deemed to be dismissed or the time shall be deemed to expire on the
expiry of that day. CHAP REINSTATEMENT OF QUALIFIED PERSONS CALLED UP FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER V. REINSTATEMENT OF QUALIFIED PERSONS CALLED UP FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
23. Reinstatement.
(1) In this section,-
(a) " former employee" means a qualified person who was released by an
employer for employment in national service;
(Chapter V.- Reinstatement of qualified persons called up for national
service.)
(b) " former employer" means the employer by whom a former employee was
employed in an establishment immediately before the enlistment of such
employee for national service;
(c) " former employment" means the employment in which the former employee was
employed immediately before his enlistment for national service.
(2) (a) A former employee may, on the termination of his national service,
make an application in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed
to his former employer for reinstatement in his former employment.
(b) On receipt of an application referred to in clause (a), the former
employer shall be under an obligation (unless the employment of the former
employee in the national service was terminated by dismissal for misconduct)
to reinstate such employee before the expiry of a period of fifteen days from
the date of receipt of such application.
(3) (a) If, on receipt of an application referred to in sub- section (2), the
former employer refuses to reinstate the applicant on the ground that his
circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable for him
to do so, or denies his liability to reinstate such former employee, or
represents that the reinstatement by him of the former employee is
impracticable, he shall, before the expiry of a period of fifteen days from
the date of receipt of such application, make an application to the National
Service (Hardship) Committee for relieving him from the obligation referred to
in sub- section (2).
(b) A former employee, who is not reinstated in his former employment within
fifteen days from the date of delivery of the application made under sub-
section (2), may, within a further period of fifteen days (computed from the
date on which the first- mentioned period of fifteen days expires), represent
to the National Service (Hardship) Committee that his former employer has not
discharged the obligation imposed on him by sub- section (2).
(c) On receipt of the application referred to in clause (a) or the
representation referred to in clause (b), the National Service (Hardship)
Committee shall, after considering all matters placed before it and after
making such inquiry in the matter as it may think fit, make an order-
(i) relieving the former employer from the obligation referred to in sub-
section (2), or
(Chapter V.- Reinstatement of qualified persons called up for national
service.)
(ii) requiring the former employer to reinstate the former employee in his
former employment, or
(iii) requiring the former employer to pay to the former employee by way of
compensation, for failure or inability to reinstate him, a sum not exceeding
an amount equal to six months' remuneration at the rate at which remuneration
was last payable by the former employer to the former employee.
(d) Where the National Service (Hardship) Committee has directed the
reinstatement of any person in his former employment, the former employer
shall be under an obligation to pay to such person salary and allowances at
the rates specified by the National Service (Hardship) Committee from the date
of receipt of the application referred to in sub- section (2).
(4) (a) A former employer, who has refused to reinstate his former employee on
any of the grounds specified in sub- section (3) and who has omitted or
failed, without any reasonable excuse, to make an application to the National
Service (Hardship) Committee within the time specified in sub- section (3),
shall be punished, without any prejudice to the provisions of clause (b) of
this sub- section, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month,
or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(b) If any former employer fails to obey any order made by the National
Service (Hardship) Committee under sub- section (3), he shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees, or with both, and the court by which such
former employer is convicted under this sub- section shall order him to pay to
the person whom he has failed to re- employ, a sum not exceeding an amount
equal to six months' remuneration at the rate at which his last remuneration
was - payable to him by the former employer and any amount so required to be
paid shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by such court.
(5) Where in pursuance of the provisions of sub- section (2) a former employer
reinstates his former employee and thereafter terminates the employment of
such former employee at any time within a period of six months from the date
of such reinstatement, the former employer shall, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in the conditions of employment of the former employee,
be liable to pay to the former employee, at the time of terminating his
employment as aforesaid, a sum
equal to the remuneration which the former employee would have earned under
the terms and conditions of his re- employment for the unexpired portion. of
the said period of six months: Provided that a former employer shall not be
liable to make such payment as aforesaid where the employment of the former
employee is terminated for the reason that the former employee has been guilty
of gross insubordination. habitual absence from work or any serious misconduct
or has been convicted of any offence: Provided further that a former employee
whose employment is terminated within the said period for any such reason as
aforesaid may refer the matter to the National Service (Hardship) Committee
and that Committee shall, after due consideration, decide whether or not the
employer is liable as aforesaid under this sub- section; and any such decision
shall be final and binding on the partie Explanation.- Any sum required to be
paid under this sub- section shall be in addition to the amount, if any, which
the employer may, under the conditions of employment be liable to pay in
respect of the termination of the employment of the former employee without
notice.
(6) No change in the name, constitution or character of the former employer
shall affect the right to reinstatement of a former employee who has been
released from employment in national service.
(7) (a) The occupation in which and the terms and conditions under which a
qualified person may be reinstated after completion of national service shall
not be less favourable to him than those which would have been applicable to
him had his employment not been interrupted by reason of his being called up
for national service.
(b) In determining the terms and conditions of reinstatement of the former
employee, regard shall be bad to the additional skill and experience acquired
by such employee in the course of his employment in the national service.
24. Preservation of certain rights of qualified persons required to render national service. While any qualified person, required to render national service under this Act, has any rights under any provident fund or other scheme for the benefit of employees maintained in connection with the employment he relinquishes, he shall continue, so long as he is engaged in national service and if be is reinstated, until such reinstatement under the provisions of this Act, to have in respect of such fund or scheme such rights as may be prescribed.
CHAP OTHER OFFENCES AND PENALTIES CHAPTER VI OTHER OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
25. False statement and forgery.
(1) If any qualified person-
(a) on whom an enlistment notice has been served under this Act in respect of
whom no postponement certificate is in force or no appli- cation or appeal for
postponement of national service is pending, fails or omits to render the
service which he is required by such notice to render, or
(b) having commenced to render national service, leaves that service without
obtaining a discharge under section 17, he shall be punished with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to five years and also with fine which may extend
to two thousand rupees,
(2) Any person who-
(a) in giving any information for the purposes of this Act, knowingly or
recklessly makes a statement which is false in material particulars or which
he does not believe to be true, or
(b) (i) with the intention of deceiving, forges or uses or lends or allows to
be used for any person any certificate issued under this Act, or
(ii) makes, or has in his possession, any document so closely resembling any
certificate so issued as to be calculated to deceive, shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or with fine not exceeding
one thousand rupees, or with both.
26. General provision as to offences. Any qualified person who contravenes any provision of this Act for the contravention of which no penalty is separately specified in this Act, shall be punished with fine which, may extend to five hundred rupees: Provided that in any proceedings for an offence punishable under this section, it shall be a defence for the accused to prove that he was prevented from complying with the provisions of this Act by circumstances beyond his control.
27. Offences by companies.
(1) Where any provision of this Act or of any order made there under is
contravensed by a company, every person who at the time the
contravention was made was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company
for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the company, shall
be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in
this sub- section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), where any such
offence has been committed and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance, or is attributable to, any, neglect
on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the
company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be deemed to
be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section-
(a) " company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and
(b) " director", in relation to a firm, means a Partner in the firm. CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS
28. Information to be furnished by Universities, etc. It shall be the duty of every University or other persons having the management of any University, school or other educational institution, to give to the Central Government, at its request, such information in their possession, or reasonably available to them, about persons receiving, or who have received education in engineering, technology, medical sciences or surgery as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.
29. Information to be furnished by District Magistrate. It shall be the duty of every District Magistrate to give to the State Government such information in his possession about qualified persons by within the local limits of his jurisdiction as may be prescribed, and it shall be the duty of every State Government to give to the Central Government all information in its possession about qualified persons in the State.
30. Priority of debts. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909 , (3 of 1909 ). the Provincial Insolvency Act 1920 , (5 of 1920 ). the Companies Act, 1956 , (1 of 1956 ). or the Partnership Act, 1932 , (9 of 1932 ). any compensation payable under this Act shall have priority over all other unsecured debts.
31. Summary trial of offences. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 , (5 of 1898 ). every offence punishable under this Act shall be tried summarily.
32. jurisdiction to try offences. No court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.
33. Production of action taken in good faith.
(1) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in
pursuance of this Act or any rules, regulations or orders made thereunder.
(2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government
for any damage caused or likely to be caused for anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules,
regulations or orders made thereunder.
34. Removal of difficulities.
(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may make such order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary for the purpose or
removing the difficulty: Provided that no order shall be made under this sub-
section after the expiry of a period of two years from the commencement of
this Act.
(2) Every order made under sub- section (1) shall be laid before both Houses
of Parliament as soon as may be after it is made and the provisions of section
38 shall apply to such order as if it were a rule made under this Act.
35. Powers to delegate. The Central Government may, by notification, direct that all or any of the powers which may be exercised by it under this Act shall, in such circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be exercised also by any State Government or any other authority owned or controlled by the Central Government.
36. Power to make rules.
(1) The Central Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out
the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:-
(a) the principles governing the calling up of persons for national service;
(b) the form and contents of the National Service Register;
(c) the form in which the certificate of registration is to be issued;
(d) the manner of notification of preference for any branch of the Armed
Forces of the Union;
(e) the manner of notification of change of name or address of, or acquisition
of academic or professional qualification or distinctions by, a qualified
person registered under this Act;
(f) the circumstances under which fresh certificates of registration in place
of certificates which have been lost, destroyed or defaced may be issued;
(g) the form and contents of the notice for examination of physical and mental
fitness;
(h) the scale in accordance with which travelling and other allowances may be
paid to medical or other authority or specialist or to any qualified person
undergoing any exami- nation of physical and mental fitness and the scale
according to which compensation may be paid for loss of remunerative time;
(i) the priorities in accordance with which qualified persons may be enlisted
for national service
(j) the form and contents of the enlistment notice and the manner of service
thereof;
(k) the scales of salary, wages, allowances, pensions, disability and death
compensations and other financial benefits admissible to those performing
national service;
(l) the scales of travelling allowances required to be paid under this Act;
(m) the authority by which and conditions subject to which prior discharge
from national service may be made;
(n) the form of discharge certificate;
(o) the manner of application for a certificate of postponement of liability
to be called up for national service or for renewal
thereof and the time within which such application for re- newal should be
made;
(p) the conditions of reinstatement of persons released from employment in the
national service and matters connected therewith;
(q) further inquiry which may be made by the National Service (Hardship)
Committee where reinstatement of qualified persons released from employment in
the national service is refused or denied or where such reinstatement is
represented to be impracticable;
(r) the preservation of rights of provident fund, etc., of qualified persons
rendering national service;
(s) the information relating to qualified persons which every District
Magistrate shall furnish to the State Government;
(t) any other matter which is required to be, or may be prescribed under this
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
granted or renewed;
(f) any other matter for which regulations are required to be, or may be, made
under this Act,
38. Rules and regulation to be laid before parliament. Every rule and every regulation made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification to the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or regulation.
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
any work in any establishment and includes any person entrusted with the
supervision and control of qualified persons in such establishment.
(b) " establishment" means-
(i) any office, or
(ii) any place where any industry, trade, business or occupation is carried
on, and includes any technical in- stitution or training centre;
(c) " national service" means any service which is likely to assist the
defence of India and civil defence or the efficient conduct of military
operations and includes such social service as the Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that it is necessary for public purposes so to do, by
notification specify in this behalf;
(d) " notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(e) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) " qualified person" means a citizen of India who is ordinarily resident in
India and who,-
(i) has obtained a recognised medical qualification within the meaning of the
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , or
(ii) has obtained, or has passed an examination which entitles him to obtain,
a degree of a University or its equivalent qualification in any branch of
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
any work in any establishment and includes any person entrusted with the
supervision and control of qualified persons in such establishment.
(b) " establishment" means-
(i) any office, or
(ii) any place where any industry, trade, business or occupation is carried
on, and includes any technical in- stitution or training centre;
(c) " national service" means any service which is likely to assist the
defence of India and civil defence or the efficient conduct of military
operations and includes such social service as the Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that it is necessary for public purposes so to do, by
notification specify in this behalf;
(d) " notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(e) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) " qualified person" means a citizen of India who is ordinarily resident in
India and who,-
(i) has obtained a recognised medical qualification within the meaning of the
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , or
(ii) has obtained, or has passed an examination which entitles him to obtain,
a degree of a University or its equivalent qualification in any branch of
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
any work in any establishment and includes any person entrusted with the
supervision and control of qualified persons in such establishment.
(b) " establishment" means-
(i) any office, or
(ii) any place where any industry, trade, business or occupation is carried
on, and includes any technical in- stitution or training centre;
(c) " national service" means any service which is likely to assist the
defence of India and civil defence or the efficient conduct of military
operations and includes such social service as the Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that it is necessary for public purposes so to do, by
notification specify in this behalf;
(d) " notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(e) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) " qualified person" means a citizen of India who is ordinarily resident in
India and who,-
(i) has obtained a recognised medical qualification within the meaning of the
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , or
(ii) has obtained, or has passed an examination which entitles him to obtain,
a degree of a University or its equivalent qualification in any branch of
engineering or technology or both. Explanation.- For the purposes of this Act,
a qualified person who is resident in India shall be deemed to be ordinarily
resident there unless--
(a) he is residing there only for the purposes of attending a course of
education; or
(b) the circumstances of his residence there are otherwise such as to show
that he is residing there for a temporary purpose only; or
(c) he, being a person who was born or domiciled in any country outside India,
has been resident in India for less than two years. CHAP LIABILITY OF PERSONS
TO RENDER NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER II LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO RENDER NATIONAL
SERVICE
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
(a) " employer" means any person who employs any qualified person for doing
any work in any establishment and includes any person entrusted with the
supervision and control of qualified persons in such establishment.
(b) " establishment" means-
(i) any office, or
(ii) any place where any industry, trade, business or occupation is carried
on, and includes any technical in- stitution or training centre;
(c) " national service" means any service which is likely to assist the
defence of India and civil defence or the efficient conduct of military
operations and includes such social service as the Central Government may, if
it is of opinion that it is necessary for public purposes so to do, by
notification specify in this behalf;
(d) " notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(e) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(f) " qualified person" means a citizen of India who is ordinarily resident in
India and who,-
(i) has obtained a recognised medical qualification within the meaning of the
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , or
(ii) has obtained, or has passed an examination which entitles him to obtain,
a degree of a University or its equivalent qualification in any branch of
engineering or technology or both. Explanation.- For the purposes of this Act,
a qualified person who is resident in India shall be deemed to be ordinarily
resident there unless--
(a) he is residing there only for the purposes of attending a course of
education; or
(b) the circumstances of his residence there are otherwise such as to show
that he is residing there for a temporary purpose only; or
(c) he, being a person who was born or domiciled in any country outside India,
has been resident in India for less than two years. CHAP LIABILITY OF PERSONS
TO RENDER NATIONAL SERVICE CHAPTER II LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO RENDER NATIONAL
SERVICE
Act.
(3) Any rule made under this Act may provide that a contravention of the rules
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or
with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or with both.
37. Power to make regulation. The Central Government may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act, to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a) enabling or requiring a qualified person to be transferred to any branch
of the Armed Forces of the Union or to any other branch of national service;
(b) examination of physical and mental fitness of qualified persons subject to
registration under this Act;
(c) determination of the categories in which qualified persons whose physical
and mental fitness has been examined shall be placed by reference to their
physical or mental conditions or both;
(d) specification of the principles to be applied and the circumstances to be
considered while hearing an application for the grant or renewal of a
postponement certificate;
(e) specification of the period for which a postponement certificate may be
