Rajasthan High Court
Rajasthan Cricket Association ... vs State Of Rajasthan on 20 December, 2004
Equivalent citations: AIR 2005 Raj 144, RLW 2005 (1) Raj 590
Author: S K Sharma
Bench: S K Sharma, D Maheshwari
JUDGMENT Shiv Kumar Sharma, J.
1\. The petitioners, in the instant writ petitions seek to assail the validity
of the Rajasthan Sports Association (Registration, Recognition and Regulation
of Associations) Ordinance, 2004 (for short the 'Ordinance') which was
promulgated and notified by the Governor of Rajasthan in the Gazette
Notification dated August 18, 2004.
2\. The challenge is based on the following grounds:-
(i) Exercise of power under Article 213 of the Constitution of India for
promulgating the Ordinance was vitiated by non- existence of the conditions
which control exercise of the powers by the Governor.
(ii) The Ordinance represents an infraction of the petitioner's fundamental
right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
(iii) The Ordinance is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, being
unreasonable and arbitrary.
ARTICLE 213
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
ARTICLE 213
3\. In support of the first contention it is canvassed on behalf of the
petitioners that the power under Article 213 is conditional and its exercise
is by the Governor and not by the Legislature. Further, the exercise of power
is contingent upon subjective satisfaction of the Governor as to existence of
the conditions set out under Article 213. The power under Article 356 is
comparable in all respects. The said power is also conditional in nature and
is exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of the President. Section 72 of
the Government of India Act, 1919 vested the Governor General with similar
power to promulgate Ordinances in emergencies. Reliance is placed on Bhagat
Singh v. The King Emperor (AIR 1931 PC 111), wherein the Privy Council
examined the issue of justiciability of the exercise of power under Section 72
of the Govt. of India Act, 1919 and held as under:-
"That raises directly the question who is to be the judge of whether a state
of emergency exists. A state of emergency is something that does not permit of
any exact definition: It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic
action which is to be judged as such by someone. It is more than obvious that
someone must be the Governor-General and he alone. Any other view would render
utterly inept the whole provision. Emergency demands immediate action and that
action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor-General. It is he alone who
can promulgate the ordinance.
Yet, if the view urged by the petitioners is right, the judgment of the
Governor-General could be upset either (a) by this Board declaring that once
the ordinance was challenged in proceedings by way of habeas corpus the Crown
ought to prove affirmatively before a court that a state of emergency existed,
or (b) by a finding of this Board-after a contentions and protracted enquiry
that no state of emergency existed, and that the ordinance with all that
followed on it was illegal.
In fact, the contention is so completely without foundation on the face of it
that it would be idle to allow the appellant to argue about it.
It was next said that the ordinance did not conduce to the peace and good
government of British India. The same remarks applies. The Governor-General is
also the judge of that. The power given by Section 72 is an absolute power
without any limits prescribed, except only that it cannot do what the Indian
legislature would be unable to do, although it is made clear that it is only
to be used in extreme cases of necessity where the good government of India
demands it."
4\. Reliance is also placed on S.R. Bommai v. State (1994 (3) SCC 1), wherein
their Lordships of the Supreme Court indicated thus-(Para 339) "whether an
emergency existed at the time the ordinance was made and promulgated was a
matter of which the Governor- General was the sole judge, If it were not so,
it was observed, the Governor-General would be disabled from taking action
necessary to meet the emerging dangerous situation, according to his
assessment of the situation. It is enough to say that this case again
represents what we have called the extreme view. It is inappropriate in the
context of Article 356." (Para 339 at page 250)
5\. Learned counsel for the petitioners urged that right from the year 1931
and up to the year 1984, Hon'ble Supreme Court had relied upon the view taken
by the Privy Council in the cases of King Emperor and Bhagat Singh, namely,
that the issue as to the existence of conditions that control availability of
power under Article 213 was a matter for the sole determination of the
Governor and that the Governor's satisfaction on this point was not
justiciable in Courts. The correctness of this enunciation of the scope of
judicial review in respect of exercise of power was taken up for re-
examination in S.R. Bommai v. State (supra), and it was held that-(Para 336)
"the Privy Council had held therein that the Governor General was held to be
the final judge of the question whether an emergency exists. The power
conferred by Section 72 was described as an absolute power without any limit
prescribed, except that which apply to an enactment made by the Indian
legislature. It was also observed that the subject-matter is not a fit one for
a court to enquire into."
In para 373, Hon'ble Supreme Court held:-
"Now, what are the grounds upon which Court can interfere and strike down the
proclamation? While discussing the decisions hereinabove, we have indicated
the unacceptability of the approach adopted by the Privy Council in Bhagat
Singh v. Emperor and King Emperor v. Benoari Lal Sharma. That was in the years
1931 and 1944, long before the concept of judicial review had acquired its
present efficacy. As stated by the Pakistan Supreme Court, that view is
totally unsuited to a democratic policy. Even the Privy Council has not stuck
to that view as is evident from its decision in the case from Malaysia Stephen
Kalong Ningkan v. Govt. of Malaysia. In this case, the Privy Council proceeded
on the assumption that such a Proclamation is amenable to judicial review".
Observations made in para 381 were also, read before us wherein it was
indicated that-
"While on this question, we may mention that if in a given case the
Proclamation contains the reasons, with adequate specificity, for which the
Proclamation was issued, the court may have to be satisfied before calling
upon the Union of India to produce the material/information that the reasons
given in the Proclamation are prima facie irrelevant to the formation of the
requisite satisfaction and/or that it is a fit case where the Union of India
must yet be called upon to place the material/information on the basis of
which it had formed the satisfaction. The Union of India may perhaps be well
advised to follow the practice of stating the reasons and the grounds upon
which the requisite satisfaction is founded."
6\. Reliance is also placed on L. Chandra Kumar v. UOI, (1997) 3 SCC 261),
wherein their Lordships of the Supreme Court examined the nature and ambit of
power of judicial review under the Indian Constitution and. held as under:-
(Para 62) "Judicial review has thus become an integral part of our
constitutional system and a power has been vested in the High Court and the
Supreme Court to decide about the constitutional validity of the provisions of
statutes. If the provisions of the statue are found to be violative of any
article of the Constitution, which is the touchstone for the validity of all
laws, the Supreme Court and the High Courts are empowered to strike down the
said provisions".
Under para 64, the Supreme Court explained the areas which deals with the
constitutional provisions that exclude the judicial review. Hon'ble Court in
this regard held as under: -
"He pointed out that the Constitution, as originally enacted, expressly
excluded judicial review in a larger number of important matters. The examples
of Articles 136(2) and 226(4) (exclusion of review in laws relating to armed
forces), Article 262(2) (exclusion of review in river disputes), Article
103(1) (exclusion of review in disqualification of Members of Parliament),
Article 329(a) (exclusion of review in laws relating to delimitation of
constituencies and related matters)".
Under para 78, Hon'ble Supreme Court sums up the law on this point in the
following words:-
"The legitimacy of the power of courts within constitutional democracies to
review legislative action has been questioned since the time it was first
conceived"....
"The Judges of the Superior courts have been entrusted with the task of
upholding the Constitution and to this end, have been conferred the power to
interpret it. It is they who have to ensure that the balance of power
envisaged by the Constitution is maintained and that the legislature and the
executive do not, in the discharge of their functions transgress
constitutional limitations".
"We, therefore, hold that the power of judicial review over legislative action
vested in the High Courts under Article 226 and in this Court under Article 32
of the Constitution is an integral and essential feature of the Constitution,
constituting part of its basic structure." (para 78, margin notes a-b, d-e and
f-g, pg 301)
7\. Learned counsel for the petitioners canvassed that the power of judicial
review being a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and the areas
wherein judicial review is not available for exercise having been explicitly
spelled out by the Constitution itself, extraordinarily strong reasons have to
be exist for exclusion of judicial review. Judicial review is the norm and
non-justiciability an exception. The law on the scope of judicial review has
undergone vast change with time and as against the earlier view, which limited
the availability of such powers to courts, the current view is that the power
of judicial review is integral to and constitute the very core of Indian
Constitution.
8\. It is contended by the learned counsel for the petitioners that in the
instant cases, however, the respondents did not, with any specificity
articulate the principle on which they were seeking to oppose justiciability
of the power under Article 213. All that was stated, was that in view of the
law laid down in the cases of Bhagat Singh; King of Emperor; S.K. Sugar Mills
Ltd. v. State of Bihar (AIR 1974 SC 1533), T. Venkata Reddy v. State of A.P.
((1985) 3 SCC 198), K. Nagraj v. State of A.P. ((1985) 1 SCC 523, the exercise
of power under Article 213 was not justiciable, and that the law laid down in
S.R. Bommai's case was not applicable to matters falling under Article 213. As
has already been seen, the law laid down in the case of Bhagat Singh; King of
Emperor; S.K. Sugar Mills Ltd. v. State of Bihar (supra), T. Venkata Reddy v.
State of A.P. (supra), K. Nagraj v. State of A.P. (supra), no longer holds
valid.
9\. It is next urged that the law declared by the Supreme Court in S.R. Bommai
is in no manner limited to the issue of Article 356. As has been seen, the
issue for determination therein was availability of power of judicial review
in a case of exercise of power by the President. This issue was examined in
the context of the fact that the power under Article 356 was conditional and
was exercisable by the President on his subjective satisfaction as to the
existence of such conditions. Thus the constitutional principles propounded by
the Supreme Court in the case of S.R. Bommai here in the context of the issue
as to the extent to which constitutional courts can exercise the power of
judicial review in cases where power is exercised by the President/Governor;
such power is provided for in the Constitution in conditional terms; and its
exercise is dependent upon subjective satisfaction of the President/Governor
about existence of conditions. Thus it is impossible to distinguish the nature
of power contained under Article 213 from Article 356 on these parameters. The
fact that exercise of power under Article '213 was justiciable was also
declared unequivocally by the Supreme Court in A.K. Roy v. Union of India
((1982) (1) SCC 271), in the following words:-
"We see the force of the contention that the question whether the pre-
conditions of the exercise of the power conferred by Article 123 are satisfied
cannot be regarded as a purely political question." (Para 26) "It is arguable
that the 44th Constitution Amendment Act leaves no doubt that judicial review
is not totally excluded in regard to the question relating to the President's
satisfaction." (Para 27)
10\. It is further contended that the bogey that Articles 213 and 356 are
totally different from each other and that the law declared in the context of
Article 213 cannot be applied to the case of Article 356 and that the law
declared in the context of Article 356 cannot be applied to the case of
Article 213, stands demolished directly by the approach adopted by the Supreme
Court in this regard. In the case of S.R. Bommai, Hon'ble Supreme Court was
examining the ambit and scope of judicial review of exercise of power by the
President under Article 356. Reliance for this purpose was placed upon the
judgment of Privy Council and Supreme Court delivered in the case of Article
213 power i.e. Ordinance making power. Several of the cases that were relied
upon and examined for the purpose of determining the correct scope of judicial
review were cases of Article 213 (see Bhagat Singh & King Emperor etc.).
Similarly, in case of A.K. Roy v. UOI, Hon'ble Supreme Court was examining the
issue as to the justiciability of exercise of power under Article 123
(Ordinance making power) and in this context reliance was placed by the
Supreme Court on the principles enunciated in the case of State of Rajasthan
(Art. 356 case). The reason for the same is obvious. As seen, both Articles
213 and 356 represent presidential powers, exercisable on subjective
satisfaction, and upon existence of conditions set out thereunder. It is thus
impossible to decipher any valid reason for seeking to reapply the doctrine of
non-justiciability based on the case of Bhagat Singh and King Emperor in the
context of exercise of power under Article 213, when that doctrine stands
rejected squarely and fully by Supreme Court in the case of S.R. Bommai. More
so, when, both Bhagat Singh and King Emperor's cases, were cases of Ordinance
making power, and the Supreme Court has specifically overruled, the Privy
Council's opinion, that exercise of Ordinance making power under Section 72 of
the Govt. of India Act, 199 was non-justiciable, declaring that the said
enunciation of the scope of judicial review stemmed from the limited efficacy
that this doctrine enjoyed then, and that in the current context, this was no
longer valid.
11\. It is further contended that the Hon'ble Supreme Court while dealing with
the aforesaid cases and while reviewing the Ordinance making powers in State
of Rajasthan v. Union of India ((1977) 3 SCC 592), in Para No. 86 observed
that the analogous principles seem to govern the exercise of extraordinary
powers conferred by Article 356(1) on the highest executive authorities of the
Indian Union who are expected to act with the utmost sense of responsibility.
In the said judgment, in para 150, the Supreme Court while holding that the
court, cannot in the circumstances, go into the question of correctness or
adequacy of the facts and circumstances on which the satisfaction of the
Central Government is based, stated in the most unequivocal terms, that if the
satisfaction is based on wholly extraneous and irrelevant grounds the court
would have jurisdiction to examine it because in that case there would be no
satisfaction of the President in regard to the matter on which he is required
to be satisfied. It was further held that the satisfaction of the President is
a condition precedent to the exercise of power under Article 356 Clause (1)
and if it can be shown that there is no satisfaction of the President at all,
the exercise of the power would be constitutionally invalid. After the year
1977, the view witnessed a further liberalization, which becomes apparent from
the judgment of A.K. Roy v. Union of India (supra). In the aforesaid judgment,
Supreme Court has held as follows:-
"Judicial Review of the President's satisfaction regarding the necessity to
issue an Ordinance is not totally excluded. As to whether the precondition to
the exercise of power under Article 123 have been satisfied or not cannot be
regarded as a purely political question and kept beyond the judicial review.
The doctrine of the political question was evolved in the United States based
on rigid. Separation of powers and does not strictly apply in India. The
position and power of the Indian President are different. (Para 26 & 27)
12\. Learned counsel further urged that the reply to the writ petition filed
by the State is totally silent as to existence of any material for formation
of an opinion about existence of an emergency warranting exercise of
Ordinance-making power under Article 213 of the Constitution. The Slate has
not set out a single fact or assigned a single reason for exercise of such
extraordinary power or to establish the necessary condition. Even in the
additional affidavit the State could not even remotely disclose any urgency
that could justify the promulgation of the Ordinance. In the interim order
passed by this Court on 10.9.2004 it was observed by the court "Though the
submissions have been made in the additional affidavit filed by Mr. Agarwal,
learned AG regarding necessity of promulgation of this Ordinance, but
sufficient material has not been annexed, but that can be submitted on or
before the petition is finally heard." Even after the passing of the aforesaid
order the State did not file any material regarding necessity of promulgation
of this Ordinance.
13\. The sum and substance of the contentions of the learned counsel is that
no circumstances could by its very nature, exist for promulgation of the
Ordinance, based on existence of emergency. The sports Associations had always
worked as independent Associations in the state of Rajasthan and Sports
activities were regularly conducted by such sport Associations in the State of
Rajasthan and there could be said to be grave emergency in existence for
passing of such Ordinance. When for the last more than 50 years the sport
activities are being promoted in the state by private Associations then no
urgent situation had arisen for the promulgation of such Ordinance by the
executive. It is thus clear that there was no material available before the
Governor for forming an opinion that an emergency of a nature which could not
wait till the reconvening of the Assembly existed requiring immediate
intervention in the form of an Ordinance. Similarly, the Governor did not at
any stage apply his mind to this aspect. The exercise of power under Article
213 was thus vitiated by non-existence of any material, requisite for
formation of necessary opinion and the factum of no such opinion having been
formed by the Governor. The Ordinance thus deserves to be declared
unconstitutional on this ground alone.
14\. In the reply to the writ petition the state of Rajasthan raised
preliminary objections and averred that the Ordinance was promulgated in pith
and substance in exercise of Constitutional powers vested in 7th Schedule list
two entry 33. incidently the Ordinance is also covered under the entry 32 of
list attached to Schedule 7 of the Constitution. As soon as the Ordinance was
promulgated in valid exercise of Constitutional powers it could not have been
assailed and the petitions are liable to dismissed. It is further submitted
that the petitioners failed to make out a case of interference under Article
226 as the State was fully competent to promulgate the Ordinance. The
Ordinance do not contravene the Constitutional provisions and since there was
urgency of framing the Ordinance it was promulgated. It is further contended
that Article 51A(j) of the Constitution of India casts duty on every citizen
of India to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and
collective activity so that the nation rises to higher levels of endeavour and
achievements. Sports activities helps individual to develop character,
discipline, confidence, important health-benefits. For the development of
sports in State of Rajasthan the Ordinance was aimed at advancing, encouraging
and promoting sports and games activities in the state at State, District and
lower level. By regulating the State seeks to create a facilitating democratic
structure, which would encourage development of sports person, development of
athletic fitness and help to bring young talent in sports and create model
behaviour to meet national and international challenges and standards. It is
also averred that the large number of Sports Associations are using the
expression Rajasthan and are holding out to be representing Rajasthan, its
Districts or a part of Rajasthan without factually acting in representative
capacity which is in violation of the Olympic Charter and the National Sports
Policy, 2001. This has necessitated the regulation of such bodies to ensure
that they are operating in a representative character and the sports units at
all levels get equal opportunity of representation at District, State,
National and International levels so as to achieve excellence in the field of
sports. The Ordinance further confers on Sports Association legal right to
represent Rajasthan and meet the aspirations of the public, discourage
nepotism, create a deeper and wider network for selection process, develop a
scientific procedure for identifying and promoting natural sports persons. The
Ordinance also seeks to amicably resolve disputes arising within and between
various Sports Association relating to affiliation and elections which end up
in litigation in courts and diver the attention of sports persons from
achieving excellence.
15\. Learned Additional Advocate General canvassed that the exercise of power
by the Governor to promulgate the Ordinance under Article 213 of the
Constitution of India is non justiciable. This Court may consider the issue of
Article 213 only after the petitioners are able to establish violation of
Article 214 or 19 or any right or malafide. No fundamental right of the
petitioner has been violated by the Ordinance nor malafide has been pleaded by
the petitioners. This court may not, exercise its jurisdiction of judicial
review and go into the issue of sufficiency of material before the Governor.
Reliance is placed on (Banwari Lal's case) (AIR 1945 PC 48), (Lakhi Narayan
Das's case) (AIR 1950 FC 59), (SKG Sagar's case) (AIR 1974 SC 1533/1586),
(A.K. Roy's case) (supra), (K. Nagraj's case) ((1985) 1 SCC 523/548), and (T.
Venkata Reddy's case) ((1985) 3 SCC 1982).
16\. It is further contended that S.R. Bommai's case (supra), relates to
Article 356 of the Constitution i.e. Emergency power of dissolution of
assembly, which is distinct from the legislative power, exercised under
Article 123 or 213 (State of Rajasthan v. Union of India) (AIR 1978 SC 1361).
The judgment of Supreme Court in D.C. Wadhwa's case ((1987) 1 SCC 378),
relates to Multiple Ordinance promulgated in 14 years by the Governor without
placing them before the Assembly. Both the judgments are, therefore, clearly
distinguishable from the facts of this case.
17\. Learned counsel for the interveners placed reliance on S.K.G. Sugar P.
Ltd. v. State of Bihar (supra), State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (AIR
1996 SC 1627), Laxmi Khandsari v. State of U.P. (AIR 1981 SC 873), and State
of U.P. v. C.O.D. Chheoki Employees' Co-op. Society Ltd. (AIR 1997 SC 1413).
18\. At this juncture it would be beneficial to refer the provisions contained
in Article 213 of the Constitution, which reads as under: -
"213. (1) If at any time, except When the Legislative Assembly of a State is
in session, or where there is a Legislative Council in a State, except when
both Houses of the Legislature are in session, the Governor is satisfied that
circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate
action, he may promulgate such Ordinances as the circumstances appear to him
to require :
Provided that the Governor shall not, without instructions from the President
promulgate any such Ordinance if-
(a) a bill containing the same provisions would under this Constitution have
required the previous sanction of the President for the introduction thereof
into the Legislature : or
(b) he would have deemed it necessary to reserve a Bill containing the same
provisions for the consideration of the President: or
(c) an Act of the Legislature of the State containing the same provisions
would under this Constitution have been invalid unless, having been reserved
for the consideration of the President, it had received the assent of the
President.
(2) An Ordinance promulgated under this article shall have the same force and
effect as an Act of the Legislature of the State assented to by the Governor,
but every such Ordinance-
(a) shall be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State, or where there
is a Legislative Council in the State, before both the Houses, and shall cease
to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of the
Legislature, or if before the expiration of that period a resolution
disapproving it is passed by the Legislative Assembly and agreed to by the
Legislative Council, if any, upon the passing of the resolution or, as the
case may be, on the resolution being agreed to by the Council; and
(b) may be withdrawn at any time by the Governor. Explanation. Where the
Houses of the Legislature of a State having a Legislative Council are summoned
to reassemble on different dates, the period of six weeks shall be reckoned
from the later of those for the purposes of this Clause.
(3) If and so, far as an Ordinance under this article makes any provision
which would not be valid if enacted in an Act of the Legislature of the State
assented to by the Governor, it shall be void:
Provided that, for the purposes of the provisions of this Constitution
relating to the effect of an Act of the Legislature of a State which is
repugnant to an Act of Parliament or an existing law with respect to a matter
enumerated in the concurrent List, an Ordinance promulgated under this article
in pursuance of instructions from the President shall be deemed to be an Act
of the Legislature of the State which has been reserved for the consideration
of the President and assented to by him".
19\. A look at Article 213 demonstrates that barring those cases where the
Governor has to obtain previous instructions from the President, the
Governor's power to promulgate Ordinance under Article 213 is subject to two
conditions, namely :
(a) that the house or houses, as the case may be, of the State Legislature
must not be in session when the Ordinance is issued; and
(b) the Governor must be satisfied as to the existence of circumstances which
render it necessary for him to take immediate action.
20\. In the instant cases the existence of condition (b) is only in question.
The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in S.K.G. Sugar Ltd. v. State of
Bihar (supra), indicated in para 16 thus-
"It is however well settled that the necessity of immediate action and of
promulgating an Ordinance is a matter purely for the subjective satisfaction
of the Governor. He is the sole Judge as to the existence of the circumstances
necessitating the making of an Ordinance. His satisfaction is not a
justiciable matter. It cannot be questioned on the ground of error of judgment
or otherwise in court.
21\. In State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. v. McDowell and Co. and Ors. (supra),
three Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court indicated that the law made by
the Parliament or the Legislature can be struck down by Courts on two grounds
and two grounds alone viz. (a) lack of legislative competence and (2)
violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the
Constitution or of any other constitutional provision. There is no third
ground, if an enactment is challenged as violative of any of the fundamental
rights guaranteed by Clauses (a) to (g) of Article 19(1), it can be struck
down only if it is found not saved by any of the Clauses (2) to (6) of Article
19 and so on. No enactment can be struck down by just saying that it is
arbitrary or unreasonable. Some or other constitutional infirmity has to be
found before invalidating an Act. An enactment cannot be struck down on the
ground that Court thinks it unjustified. The Parliament and the Legislatures,
composed as they are of the representatives of the people, are supposed to
know and be aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for
them.
22\. Coming to the scheme of ordinance we find that preamble clearly states
that in order to facilitate and regulate the activities and recognise the
rights of the sports associations to represent the state or the district
contra-distinguished from the right of an individual to form an association
the ordinance was promulgated. Sections 2 (o), 2 (f), 2(v) and 2(u)
respectively define primary sports body, District Level Sports Association,
State Level Sports Association, and Sports Association. Section 3 clearly
provides for compulsory registration of sports associations. Section 9
provides for a hierarchical pyramidal structure and Section 14 provides for
effecting voting rights of each body so as to enable the association to act in
a democratic manner. Section 12 provides for affiliation of sports
associations with Olympic Associations. Section 16 provides for conciliation
and arbitration. Section 25 provides for prohibition for any unregistered
association to represent state or district. Use of name of State or District
creates an impression in the mind of international and national event holders
that the said association is representing the State or the District which
factually it does not. Section 35 provides for appeal and revision and is
sufficient safeguard against any order passed by the Registrar. Section 37 (2)
provides for deletion of the name of the State or District used by any
association, which does not wish to fall within the parameters of the
ordinance or act in the representative capacity for the State or the District.
23\. Referring the above provisions, learned Additional Advocate General urged
that the policy of the State to regulate the activities of the sports and
associations, which represent the State or the District, is in the interest of
the State and cannot be interfered with under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Reliance is placed on (Balco Employees Union's case) ((2002)2 SCC 333).
24\. It is also canvassed that there is a presumption in favour of the
validity of an Statute and the petitioners will have to establish the
violation of their rights for challenging the constitutional validity of the
ordinance. Reliance is placed on (Charanjit Lal Chowdhary's case) (AIR 1951 SC
41), (R.K. Dalmiya's case) (AIR 1958 SC 538), (Bihar Distilery's case) (AIR
1997 SC 1511), and (Elphin Stone Spinning and Weaving Co.'s case) (AIR 2001 SC
724).
25\. We have pondered over the rival submissions and carefully scanned the
material on record and case law placed before us. In S.R. Bommai's case
(supra), their Lordships of the Supreme Court while dealing with the Article
356 of the Constitution i.e. emergent powers of Dissolution of Assemblies made
various observations. As already noticed, correctness and enunciation of
judicial review in respect of exercise of power was taken up for re-
examination in S.R. Bommai's case. It was held that if in a given case the
proclamation contains the reasons which with adequate specificity for which
the proclamation was issued, the court may have to be satisfied before calling
upon the Union of India to produce the material/information that the reasons
given in the proclamation are prima facie irrelevant to the formation of the
requisite satisfaction and/or that it is a fit case where the Union of India
must yet to be called upon to place the material/information on the basis of
which it had formed the satisfaction.
26\. Whereas under Article 213 if at any time, except when the Legislative
Assembly of a State is in session, or where there is a legislative council in
a state, except when both houses of the legislature are in session the
Governor is satisfied that the circumstances exists which render it necessary
for him to take immediate action, he may promulgate such ordinance as the
circumstances appear to him to require.
27\. The Constitution Bench in S.K.G. Sugar Ltd. v. State of Bihar (supra),
clearly indicated that the necessity of immediate action of promulgating an
ordinance is a matter purely for the subjective satisfaction of the Governor.
He is the sole Judge as to the existence of the circumstances necessitating
the making of an ordinance. His satisfaction is not a justiciable matter. It
cannot be questioned on ground of error of judgment or otherwise in court. The
ratio indicated in SKG Sugar Ltd. v. State of Bihar (supra), still holds the
field and we find ourselves unable to agree with the submissions advanced by
learned counsel for the petitioners. We therefore hold that the ratio
indicated in S.R. Bommai's case is not applicable in the instant matters,
since the Governor is the sole Judge as to the existence of the circumstances
necessitating the making of an ordinance. In our opinion, the satisfaction of
the Governor is not justiciable matter and cannot be questioned.
ARTICLE I9(1)(C) OF THE CONSTITUTION
28\. On merits, the challenge to the validity of the Ordinance is principally
based on the anvil of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution which reads as
under: -
"(1) All citizens shall have the right.-
(a).................
(b).................
(c) to form associations or unions"
Article 19 (4) which allows for imposition of reasonable restrictions reads as
under: -
"(4). Nothing in Sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect the operation
of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making
any law imposing, in the interest of (the sovereignty and integrity of India
or] public order or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the
right conferred by the said sub-clause."
29\. The approach to be adopted for examining a challenge to constitutional
validity of a legal enactment based on Article 19 was declared by the Supreme
Court in Dharam Dutt v. Union of India, (2004 (1) SCC 712)thus:- (para 37)
"The Court, confronted with a challenge to the constitutional validity of any
legislative enactment by reference to Article 19 of the Constitution, shall
first ask what is the sweep of the fundamental right guaranteed by the
relevant sub- classes out of Sub-clauses (a) to (g) of Clause (1). If the
right canvassed falls within the sweep and expanse of any of the sub-clauses
of Clause (1), then the next question to be asked would be, whether the
impugned law imposes a reasonable restriction falling within the scope of
Clauses (2) to (6) respectively. However, if the right sought to be canvassed
does not fall within the sweep of the fundamental rights but is a mere
concomitant or adjunct or expansion or incidence of that right, then the
validity thereof is not to be tested by reference to Clauses (2) to (6). The
test which it would be required to satisfy for its constitutional validity is
one of reasonableness, as propounded in the case of V.G. Row or if it comes
into conflict with any other provision of the Constitution."
30\. The ambit, sweep and expanse of Article 19(1)(c) right was examined by
Supreme Court in State of Madras v. V.G. Row (AIR 1952 SC 196), All India Bank
Employees Association v. N.I. Tribunal (AIR 1962 SC 172), Damyanti Naranga v.
UOI (1971 (1) SCC 678), L.N. Mishra v. State of Bihar (1988 (2) SCC 433), Asom
Rashtra Bhasha Pradhan Samiti v. State of Assam (1989 (4) SCC 496), and Dharam
Dutt v. UOI (supra). Having analysed the said cases learned counsel canvassed
following propositions:-
(a) Right to form an Association and protect its composition in accordance
with its internal constitution:-
(i) Damyanti Naranga v. UOI (supra).
"Certain persons have been added as members by the Act and by the Rules.
Admission of future members is no longer at the choice of the original members
who had formed the Association. Persons, in whose admission as members the
members of the Society had no hand, can become members and get the right of
associating with them in the Sammelan, without the original members having any
right to object. This is clear interference with the right to form an
association which had been exercised by the members of the Society by forming
the Society with its constitution, under which they were members and future
members could only come in as a result of their choice by being elected by
their Working Committee," (Para 5) "The result of this change in composition
is that the members, who voluntarily formed the Association, are now compelled
to act in that Association with other members who have been imposed as members
by the Act and in whose admission to membership they had no say. Such
alteration in the composition of the Association itself clearly interferes
with the right to continue to function as members of the Association which was
voluntarily formed by the original founders. The right to form an association,
in our opinion, necessarily implies that the persons forming the Association
have also the right to continue to be associated with only those whom they
voluntarily admit in the Association. Any law, by which members are introduced
in the voluntary Association without any option being given to the members to
keep them out, or any law which takes away the membership of those who have
voluntarily joined it, will be a law violating the right to form an
Association". (para 6) "The Act, insofar as it interferes with the composition
of the Society in constituting the Sammelan, therefore, violates the right of
the original members of the Society to form an association guaranteed under
Article 19(1)(c)." (para 9) "These members have been added without any option
being available to the existing members of the Society to elect or refuse to
elect them as members which was the right they possessed under the
constitution of the Society itself." (para 5)
(ii) Dharam Dutt v. Union of India (supra).
"As the formation of the Society, which is a voluntary association, is not
adversely affected and the members of the Society are free to continue with
such association, the validity of the impugned legislation cannot be tested by
reference to Sub-clause (a) and (c) of Clause (1) of Article 19." (para 43).
"the Society named the India Council of World Affairs has not been touched at
all; its membership and organisation have been left intact, untampered with
and untouched", (para 17)
(b) Protection in respect of constitution of the Association:-
L.N. Mishra Institute of Economic Development & Social Change v. State of
Bihar (supra).
"The composition of the Society has not been touched at all. All that has been
done is to nationalize the Institute of the Society by the acquisition of the
assets and properties relating to the Institute. The Society may constitute
its governing body in accordance with its rules without any interference by
the Government." (para 31) "So long as there is no interference with the
Society, its constitution or composition, it is difficult to say that because
of the taking over or acquisition of the Institute, which was the only
property or activity of the Society, the fundamental right of the Society to
form association has been infringed". (Para 29)
(c) Protection against non-interference in the matter of functioning of the
Association:-
Dharam Dutt v. Union of India (supra).
"The Society named the Indian Council of World Affairs has not been touched at
all; its membership and organization have been left intact, untampered with
and untouched." (Para 17) "The impugned legislations took over the Institute
and not the Society. No restriction whatsoever was imposed on the functioning
of the Society. The provisions of the Act referred to the Institute. The
Institute constituted one of the activities of the Society. The petitioner
Society had constituted itself into as association in exercise of the
fundamental right conferred by Article 19(1)(c). That right of the Society
remains unimpaired and un-interfered with by the impugned Act and Ordinance."
(Para 39)
(d) Right to continue as an Association:-
Damyanti Naranga v. Union of India (supra).
"8. This Court had also proceeded on the same basis in the case of State of
Madras v. V.G. Row. Though this aspect was not clearly brought out in the
judgment, the point, which came up for consideration, was decided on the basis
that persons forming an Association had a right under Article 19(1)(c) to see
that the composition of the Association continues as voluntarily agreed to by
them. That decision was given in an appeal from a judgment of the High Court
of Madras reported in V.G. Row v. The State of Madras. In the High Court, this
principle was clearly formulated by Rajamannar, C.J., in the following words:
The word 'form' therefore, must refer not only to the initial commencement of
the association, but also to the continuance of the association as such. The
Act, insofar as it interferes with the composition of the Society in
constituting the Sammelan, therefore, violates the right of the original
members of the Society to form an association guaranteed under Article
19(1)(c)." (Para 8 & 9) "The right to form an association, in our opinion,
necessarily implies that the persons forming the Association have also the
right to continue to be associated with only those whom they voluntarily admit
in the Association." (Para 6) Dharam Dutt v. Union of India (supra).
"The pith and substance of the impugned legislation is to take over an
institution of national importance. As the formation of the Society, which is
a voluntary association, is not adversely affected and the members of the
Society are free to continue with such association, the validity of the
impugned legislation cannot be tested by reference to Sub-clause (a) and (c)
or Clause (1) of Article 19. The activity of the Society which was being
conducted through the institution ICWA has been adversely affected and to that
extent the validity of the legislation shall have to be tested by reference to
Sub-clause (g) of Clause (1) of Article 19." (Para 43)
(e) Association's right to retain control with its own body:-
Asom Rastrabhasa Prachar Samiti v. State of Assam (supra).
"no control is kept to those who formed the Society, those who had a right to
form an association will be kept away...." (Para 22) Further, examining the
challenge posed in Dharam Dutt's own case, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that:-
"So far as the Society ICWA is concerned, it has been left intact, untouched
and uninterfered with. There is no tampering with the membership or the
governing body of the Society. The Society is still free to carry on its other
activities. No membership of the old Society has been dropped. No new member
has been forced or thrust upon the Society. The impugned legislation nominates
members who will be members of the Council, the new body corporate, different
from the Society. The pith and substance of the impugned legislation is to
take over an institution of national importance. As the formation of the
Society, which is a voluntary association, is not adversely affected and the
members of the Society are free to continue with such association, the
validity of the impugned legislation cannot be tested by reference to Sub-
clauses (a) and (c) of Clause (1) of Article 19." (para 43) The Hon'ble
Supreme Court then examined the correctness of the law laid down in the case
of Damyanti Naranga and Asom Rashtrabhasha Prachar Samiti and held that the
principles declared therein were, on the facts not applicable in the facts of
Dharam Dutt's case, in as much as, while in the case of Damyanti Naranga, "the
existence of original Sammelan was terminated, many outsiders were made as
members thereof by the Act, the new members who were enrolled or could be
enrolled, were entitled to be admitted without the consent of the original
members of the Sammelan. Thus the members of the old Sammelan came under
compulsion to associate and unite involuntarily with such persons as they did
not wish to do". The said principle was not applicable in the case of Damyanti
Naranga since in this case "Ordinary association has been left intact and
untouched". (para 44)
31\. Learned counsel further urged that an analysis of the authoritative
declaration of law on the scope of Article 19(1)(c) in the case of Dharam Dutt
brings out that while there are a total of six rights referred above that form
an integral part and are relevant to formation, continuance and internal
functioning of the Association are protected by Article 19(1)(c), being the
ken of the 'right to form an Association', the scope of the said right however
cannot be extended artificially by invoking concomitant rights. The area that
constitutes such artificial exclusion and is thus outside the scope of Article
19(1)(c) have been consistently summed up in the case of Indian Bank Employee
v. National Industrial Tribunal and Dharam Dutt's case as 'the claim to the
right to achieve a particular object through the Association or institution
run by it, the same being a concomitant or concomitant to concomitant of a
fundamental right.
32\. According to learned counsel, as to what constitutes a concomitant right
or concomitant to concomitant of a fundamental right stand fully explained in
the case of Indian Bank Employees v. National Industrial Tribunal (AIR 1962 SC
171), The challenge, in that case, was to the validity of Section 34A of the
Banking Regulations Act. This challenge was posed by the workers union. The
context for the challenge was that the workers' claim for disclosure of
certain documents before the Tribunal was being resisted by the management of
the Bank by invoking Section 34A which empowered the Bank to withhold
disclosure of certain documents on the ground of secrecy or confidentiality.
On behalf of the workers it was contended that the right guaranteed to them
under Article 19(1)(c) to form an Association included within ken, scan the
further right to take steps for attainment of the object for which the
Association was formed; that the association was set up for furthering the
cause of collective bargaining and protecting the interest of workers; that
attainment of this objective was being interfered by Section 34A which enabled
withholding of documents; that since the right to form association included
within its ambit the right to collective bargaining and disclosure of
documents was required for effectuation of this right, thus Section 34A was
ultra vires Article 19(1)(c).
33\. Learned counsel for the petitioners then referred the provisions of the
ordinance affecting the composition of the Association and made following
submissions :-
(i) By virtue of Section 9(2) the Association has no choice in the matter of
its membership. It is compulsory for every District Level Sports Association
to necessary accept, without any choice, every Primary Sports Body as its
member. Similarly, every State Level Sports Association is statutorily obliged
to accept every District Level Sports Association as its member. Thus, every
State Level Sports Association and District Level Sports Association would,
notwithstanding the provisions of its constitution, have no choice in the
matter of selection of District Level Sports Association and Primary Sports
Body. Thus, the existing members have to necessarily associate with the
bodies, which necessarily have to be inducted as the Association's members, by
virtue of Section 9(1) and (2). In fact, by seeking to specify as to who could
be the members of the State Level Sports Association and District Level Sports
Association, Section 9(1) and (2) also impliedly spells a prohibition against
future induction of any other class of member as a member of the Association.
(ii) On one hand, Section 9(1) & (2) declares as to who can be the members of
State Level Sports Association and District Level Sports Association. On the
other hand, Section 9 (1) & (2) read with Rule 3 (1) & (2), mandates for
compulsory acceptance of every Primary Sports Body and District Level Sports
Association as a member by District Level Sports Association and State Level
Sports Association. Section 14(1), (2) and (4) then excludes all existing
individual members of every class from any say (voting) in the constitution of
the Association's governing body. Thus, Section 9 (1) & (2) read with Section
14 (1), (2) and (4) operate combinedly to transfer control of all existing
State Level Sports Association and District Level Sports Association from the
individual members, who formed the Association, to institutional bodies, to
the complete exclusion of all individual members from the affairs of the
Association. These provisions thus denude the individual members and the
petitioner Association of its right to retain its composition, constitution
and governance, in the manner decided by its own members and substitutes it
with that commenced by the State by way of the Ordinance.
(iii) Section 10 (1)(2) infringes upon right to form an Association by
statutorily providing (Section (1) & (2)) that such right would not be
exercisable individuals forming or intending to form State Level Sports
Association and District Level Sports Association except in the manner and in
situations set out thereunder i.e. except in a case where a minimum of six
District Level Sports Associations are inducted as member and a minimum of
three Primary Sports Bodies are inducted as member of District Level Sports
Association irrespective of the issue where the game has reached a level where
it is feasible to do so and whether the Sports Associations intend to restrict
its membership to individual members alone or to certain other class of
members only. Induction of District Level Sports Association and Primary
Sports Body is a statutory sine-qua-non for exercise of the constitutional
right to form Association by virtue of Section 10 (1) and (2) of the
Ordinance.
(iv) Similarly, Section 29 and Section 30 qualify the right to form an
Association subject to the Association being possessed with resources and
being willing to undertake activities which are commensurate with the
obligations set out under Sections 29 and 30. These obligations are
restrictive in nature. Non- fulfillment would entail serious consequences.
Some obligations are impossible to be complied with. By its very nature,
limitation of resources and limitation of acceptability of games at certain
levels, would render it impossible to carry out all the obligations that are
envisaged under Section 29.
(v) By limiting the right to form an Association in this manner and by
providing for compulsory induction of certain class of members, the Ordinance
makes it obligatory for the Association to have members of a certain class
only, to necessarily accept the bodies set out under Section 9 (1) & (2) as
its members irrespective of their personal . choice and also limits the future
exercise of Sports Bodies' right to form Association subject to conditions set
out by the Ordinance under Section 10(1) and (2).
None of these impositions can be saved with reference to Article 19(4) of the
Constitution. Article 19(4) permit restrictions only on grounds of sovereignty
and integrity of India, morality and public order.
(vi) Section 27 of the Ordinance states that the Association opting for
registration and recognition under Section 26 shall cease to exist from the
date of such option. Similarly, Section 37 states that Association using as
part of their name, the expression 'Rajasthan' or the name of any District
shall unless they remove the said expression from their name within 30 days of
the commencement of the Ordinance, have their registration cancelled after
hearing (Section 37 (3)) and that cancellation of registration shall operate
as if member of the Society had resolved to dissolve itself. (Section 34 of
the Ordinance)
(vii) Similarly, Sections 3, 5 and 26 also provide for cessation of existing
Associations constituted according to the choice of its own members by
providing that with effect from the commencement of the Ordinance, every
Sports Association defined under the Ordinance shall have to be registered
under the Ordinance (Section 3); that every State Level Sports Association
listed in Schedule B as also all other future State Level Sports Associations
which are not covered by Schedule B shall apply for registration of
Association along with documents specified in Schedule A which state that such
documents shall include:-
a) Certificate of affiliation;
b) Memorandum and bye laws made in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
Similarly, Section 26 also state that "notwithstanding anything contained in
this Ordinance, an Association undertaking a game or sport activities at State
or District level and is already registered under the Rajasthan Societies
(Registration) Act, 1958 shall.......amend its bye laws to bring it in
conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance." (Section 26 (1) of
Ordinance).
Further, "After the amendment in bye laws, fresh elections shall be held
within 30 days of such amendment...." (Section 26(3) of the Ordinance).
(viii) Thus, all existing Associations have to cease to exist in the form in
which they stand constituted. Effective from the commencement of this
Ordinance, by virtue of Sections 3, 5, and 26, every Association, whether
existing or further, has to necessarily accept as a part of its constitution,
the provisions of the Ordinance and has to necessarily function in the manner
provided for by this Ordinance. Since the Ordinance exclusively deals with the
issue of membership, recognition, affiliation, elections, settlement of
disputes, disaffiliation, disqualification, rights and obligations etc. thus,
it is clear that w.e.f. the commencement of the Ordinance, no association
engaged in sports activities could retain freedom, to function according to
its own constitution and by accepting the obligation to function in the manner
provided for in the Ordinance, every Association has to necessarily accept its
legal death. This is apart from the provisions that explicitly spell out the
death of Association. Thus, the Ordinance also clearly provide for
discontinuance/death of the Sports Associations.
(ix) The respondents contended that the obligation to secure registration and
recognition under the Ordinance created by Sections 3, 5 and 26, is applicable
only to those Associations which seek to represent the State of Rajasthan and
which use the expression 'Rajasthan' as part of their names. It is stated,
that neither Section 3, nor Section 5 or Section 26 limit the applicability of
those provisions to Associations representing the State of Rajasthan or using
the expression 'Rajasthan' as part of their names. In fact, there is no
reference whatsoever, to any of these aspects either under Section 3, Section
5 or Section 26. Section 3 applies to every Sports Association defined under
the Ordinance and the definition of 'Sports Association' under Section 2 (u)
covers under its ambit every State Level Sports Association defined under
Section 2 (v), every District Level Sports Association and every Primary
Sports Body constituted to promote sports in the State. The definition of
State Level Sports Association contained under Section 2 (v) covers every
elected representative body of District Level Sports Association. It is thus
clear that the applicability of Section 3 is in no way, restricted to
Associations that seek to represent the State of Rajasthan or use the
expression 'Rajasthan' as apart of their names. The same holds valid to the
cases of Section 5 and Section 26. An analysis of Section 5 and Section 26
shows that they cover every State Level Sports Association and District Level
Sports Association engaged in sports. The issue of representing the State of
Rajasthan is covered by Section 25 and the issue relating to the use of
expression 'Rajasthan' as a part of its name, is covered by Section 37 of the
Ordinance. Both these provisions exist independent of Sections 3, 5 and
Section 26. Thus, the argument, that the Ordinance only covers those
Associations, which seek to represent State of Rajasthan and which use the
expression 'Rajasthan' as part of its name, is totally incorrect.
(x) It may be seen that by virtue of Rule 3(1) and (2), every State Level and
District Level Sports Association is obliged to use the name of the concerned
District and 'Rajasthan' as a part of its name. Consequent to the obligation
so created, obviously, every Association would, in the matter of its
functioning, be hit both by Section 25 and Section 37. Thus, firstly Rule 3
makes it obligatory for every State Level and District Level Sports
Association to use the expression 'Rajasthan' as a part of its name, and
having created such obligation, Sections 25 and 37 state that any Association
which uses such expression as a part of its name, shall be guilty of
committing cognizable offence and shall face the consequence of dissolution
unless it applies for securing registration and recognition under the
Ordinance.
(xi) As seen, in the case of Damyanti Naranga, court held that "This is clear
interference with the right to form an association which had been exercised by
the members of the Society by forming the Society with its constitution, under
which they were members and future members could only come in as a result of
their choice by being elected by their Working Committee." (para 5 pg 684),
and in the case of Dharam Dutt, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "challenge
under Article 19(1)(c) has to fail because the Society has not been touched at
all, its membership and organisation have been left intact, untampered and
untouched". In the case of L.N. Mishra, the court held that "the Society may
constitute its Governing Body in accordance with its rules without
interference by the Government". Hon'ble Supreme Court thus recognized the
Association's right to constitute its Governing Body in accordance with its
own Rules, without interference by the Government as an integral part of the
petitioner's right to form an Association. The Ordinance herein clearly
infringes the petitioner's right to constitute its Governing Body in
accordance with the Rules.
(xii) The petitioner's Constitution states that its Governing Body would be
elected by its General Body which would consist of all seven categories of its
members. The Association's Memorandum also lays down the eligibility to
contest elections as also the eligibility for exercise of voting right.
(xiii) Section 14 of the impugned Ordinance clearly infringe all those rights.
It substitutes its own mechanism for exercise of voting rights and for
constitution of the Governing Body. Section 14 states that that the Governing
Bodies of the State Level Sports Association and District Level Sports
Association shall be constituted exclusively by the affiliating District Level
Sports Association and Primary Sports Bodies and that "No individual member
shall have a right to case vote for the election of elected body of State
Level Sports Association or District Level Sports Association. The Ordinance
also provides in its own terms (Section 15), eligibility for contesting
elections. By limiting the right to contest election to the office bearers of
District Level Sports Association and Primary Sports Body, the Ordinance
exclude from the list of eligibility all other categories of members of the
Association. Thus in future all Governing Bodies would be constituted
exclusively out of the office bearers of District Level Sports Association and
Primary Sports Bodies and not out of the members of State Level Sports
Association and District Level Sports Association.
(xiv) In the matter of its functioning by virtue of the provisions of the
Ordinance, the Association would be governed not by its own internal
constitution, but by the provisions of the Ordinance. In every respect of its
functioning i.e. in the matter of settlement of disputes, its accounts, on the
issue of disqualification, disaffiliation, in the matter of right to use its
name, recognition, and its obligations, the Association would be controlled
exclusively by the provisions of the Ordinance and not by its own internal
constitution. Even in the matter of its future governance, by virtue of
Section 8 (3) and (4) read with Section 34 of the Ordinance, the Society would
be governed by the bye-laws that are amended or provided for by the Registrar
or proposed by the State Government (Section 34 (3), and not by the decision
of the members of the Association.
(xv) By virtue of Section 26 (3), with the commencement of the Ordinance,
within a period of 90 days, all elected bodies would have to be substituted by
a new set of elected bodies which are to be elected in accordance with the
provisions of Section 26 (3) read with the Rules framed under the Ordinance.
The Rules famed under the Ordinance state in terms that the final choice as to
the venue as also that of election officer is to be that of the State.
Similarly by virtue of Rule 11 (15) the list of persons eligible to contest
the election is to be determined not by the Association but by the Rajasthan
State Sports Council and the list of voters is to be finally settled only by
the Rajasthan State Sports Council (Rule 11 (14)). Any objection against
voters list is also to be finalized not by the Association but by Rajasthan
State Sports Council (Rule 11 (17)). Similarly, elections would also assume
validity only after they are approved by the Government Observer (Section 8,
13 (2) of the Ordinance).
Likewise, in the matter of its functioning, all District Level Sports
Associations are obliged to abide by the directions of concerned State Level
Sports Associations (Section 8 (1)(c)).
(xvi) Lastly, the issue as to which District Level Sports Association out of
several such associations that may be operating in a District is to be
inducted as a member of State Level Sports Association (with the resultant
death of all other District Level Sports Associations), is to be decided not
by the State Level Sports Association but by Rajasthan Olympic Association,
since the power to grant affiliation is vested in the said Body. (Section 12
of the Ordinance). Section 14 (2)(3) which restrict the right to exercise of
voting to affiliated Primacy Sports Bodies and District Level Sports
Associations alone and Section 5 (1) which conditions the right of
registration upon being possessed of a certificate of affiliation, makes it
clear that the right to be registered under Section 5, right to be made a
member thereof (Section 9) as also right to exercise voting right under
Section 14, are all restricted to affiliated bodies alone.
(xvii) Rule 3 makes the uni-polar and hierarchal character of the Sports
Association clear by stating that every District Level Sports Association
shall be known by the name of 'Revenue District' and the area in which it
operate. Rule 3 (2) provides the same in the case of State Level Sports
Association.
(xviii) Thus, rule 3 (1) and (2) make it compulsory for every District Level
Sports Association and State Level Sports Association to use the name of the
District and 'Rajasthan'. While Rule 3 (1) and (2) make it obligatory for
District Level Sports Association and State Level Sports Association to adopt
the name of the concerned District and 'Rajasthan' the Ordinance according to
the respondent's own case, makes it obligatory for every District Level Sports
Association and State Level Sports Association using the expression 'district'
and 'Rajasthan', as a part of its name, to apply for and secure registration
and recognition under the Ordinance. This is apart from the fact that Sections
3, and 5 of the Ordinance make it obligatory for every Sports Association to
secure registration and recognition under the Ordinance.
(xix) Thus, there is no escape for any Sports Association whatsoever except to
adopt the provisions of the Ordinance as a part of its Constitution, apply for
registration thereunder and secure recognition and affiliation.
(xx) The direct implication of this Ordinance would be that with effect from
its commencement every individual citizen living in the State of Rajasthan
shall stand divested of his right to form a Sports Association. The
availability of right to form and run the sports association would henceforth
be restricted to Primary Sports Body and District Level Sports Associations
alone. Similarly in future, no individual member would be entitled to retain
involved with the affairs of the Sports Association, and would neither be
entitled to contest for the office of any Sports Association, nor be entitled
to exercise voting rights for any purpose including for the constitution of
its Governing Body. All these rights would henceforth be exercisable only by
the District Level Sports Association and Primary Sports Bodies and their
office bearers.
(xxi) Another consequence of the Ordinance would be that in every district
there would be only one District Level Sports Association and at the State
level there would be only one State Level Sports Association. Every other
Association operating in the District would, by virtue of its exclusion from
affiliation to the Association at the next higher level, stand destroyed
automatically. Rule 3 (1) and (2) and Section 9 (1) and (2) and the counter
affidavit filed by the State, reaffirm the hierarchical and uni-polar
structure of the Association. They make it clear that with the commencement of
the Ordinance democratic principles would have no say in the matter of
functioning of Sports Associations. Henceforth, at every level, only one
entity would be entitled to exercise any role in relation to sports
activities. Yet another extraordinary consequence would be the adoption of
complete control by the State in the matter of election as also in the matter
of registration, recognition and affiliation. While on the one hand, election
cannot be held without securing affiliation, recognition and registration. On
the other hand, availability of affiliation, recognition and registration,
would depend upon issuance of necessary orders, in this regard, by the State
or its functionaries. The Association's very right to existence as also its
right to continue its functioning would henceforth be contingent upon being
possessed with the necessary affiliation, recognition and registration. Thus
in other words, if affiliation, registration and recognition is not made
available for any point of time, such Association cannot, for that period,
exercise any of its constitutional right.
It is thus clear, that in the matter of every aspect of all its functioning,
the Ordinance has assumed absolute control and is Completely violative of the
petitioner's fundamental right under Article 19(1)(c).
(xxii) It may also be stated that Full Membership of BCCI is restricted to a
total of 30 existing State Associations, named thereunder, Rajas-than Cricket
Association, being one of them. BCCI Constitution which is on record, states
in terms that once a new entity is formed, it would have to apply a fresh for
induction as an Associate Member and that induction of such an entity as an
Associate Member as also its eventual acceptance as a Full Member, would be a
matter of absolute discretion, with BCCI. Further, that an affiliated member
can qualify for induction as a Full Member only after it completes a term of 5
years as an affiliated member. Thus, this Ordinance would have disastrous
consequences as far as representation of players from this state at the
National level is concerned and as far as participation of the State Level
Associations of this State in the game of cricket at the National level is
concerned. It would be appropriate to state that once the propositions that
are manifested by the provisions of the impugned Ordinance are accepted to be
constitutionally permissible, they would eventually, find manifestation in
other areas of citizen's right to form associations, namely, in the area of
Art, Culture, Politics, Science and Charity. It is stated that acceptance of
the State's right to impose vertical hierarchical monopolistic model of
Association at every level and the State's right to control the membership of
association, its composition, its constitution and its functioning, would have
remarkable implications both in the area of citizen human rights and in the
area of democratic functioning of Indian policy.
34\. In reply to the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioners, learned
Additional Advocate General canvassed that the ordinance does not directly or
indirectly restricts the right of any individual to form an association. The
right of an association to represent the state or the District is not
fundamental right of any individual but is a concomitant right of the
association, regulation of which is not guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) of
the Constitution of India. Since the Individual's right under Article 19(1)(c)
is not violated, the issue that the regulatory mechanism is a permissible
restriction under Article 19(4) will not arise. If the right of association
under Article 19(1)(c), does not exist then the regulations are in public
interest covered under Article 19(6). Reliance is placed on (Tika Ramji's
case) (AIR 1956 SC 676), (P. Balakotaiash's case) (AIR 1958 SC 232) (All India
Bank Employees' case) (AIR 1962 SC 171), (Balmer Lawrie Workers Union's case)
(AIR 1985 SC 311), (Chairman, SBI's case) (2002) SCC 669), and (Dharam Dutt's
case) (supra).
35\. Learned Additional Advocate General further contended that the judgment
in Damyati's case (supra), is distinguishable as the Government in that case
had sought to interfere in the management of the Society. Damyanti's case has
been consistently distinguished by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the following
judgments:-
(Delhi Police NKG Sangh) ((1987)1 SCC 115), (L.N. Mishra Institute) ((1988) 2
SCC 444), (Bhandara Distt. Central Co-op) (AIR 1993 SC 59), (COD Chheoki ECOS)
((1997) 3 SCC 681), and (Dharam Dutt's case) (supra).
36\. It is next contended that the right of the association to be compulsorily
affiliated or to provide compulsory affiliation is a concomitant right of the
association and does not violate right of an individual guaranteed under
Article 19(1)(c). Reliance is placed on (DAV College's case) ((1971) 2 SCC
269).
37\. Having analysed the submissions we find that in the instant matters the
ordinance was promulgated only to regulate the activities of the associations.
The State does not propose to control the right of any individual to form
association. It appears that the activities of associations creating monopoly
lead to dissipation of funds and litigation, forced the State to promulgate
the ordinance. In our considered opinion the ordinance does not violate the
fundamental right of an individual guaranteed to form an association under
Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution. We find ourselves unable to agree with
the infirmities shown by learned counsel for the petitioners and hold that the
ordinance is not violative of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution. Since the
ordinance is based on the policy decision of the State of Rajasthan, no
interference is called for. In State of U.P. v. COD Chheoki Employees (AIR
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
39\. As a result of the above discussion, we hold the ordinance intravires to
the Constitution. The instant writ petitions stand dismissed without any order
as to costs. Interim orders passed during the pendency of the writ petitions
stand vacated.
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
ARTICLE 213
3\. In support of the first contention it is canvassed on behalf of the
petitioners that the power under Article 213 is conditional and its exercise
is by the Governor and not by the Legislature. Further, the exercise of power
is contingent upon subjective satisfaction of the Governor as to existence of
the conditions set out under Article 213. The power under Article 356 is
comparable in all respects. The said power is also conditional in nature and
is exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of the President. Section 72 of
the Government of India Act, 1919 vested the Governor General with similar
power to promulgate Ordinances in emergencies. Reliance is placed on Bhagat
Singh v. The King Emperor (AIR 1931 PC 111), wherein the Privy Council
examined the issue of justiciability of the exercise of power under Section 72
of the Govt. of India Act, 1919 and held as under:-
"That raises directly the question who is to be the judge of whether a state
of emergency exists. A state of emergency is something that does not permit of
any exact definition: It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic
action which is to be judged as such by someone. It is more than obvious that
someone must be the Governor-General and he alone. Any other view would render
utterly inept the whole provision. Emergency demands immediate action and that
action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor-General. It is he alone who
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
ARTICLE 213
3\. In support of the first contention it is canvassed on behalf of the
petitioners that the power under Article 213 is conditional and its exercise
is by the Governor and not by the Legislature. Further, the exercise of power
is contingent upon subjective satisfaction of the Governor as to existence of
the conditions set out under Article 213. The power under Article 356 is
comparable in all respects. The said power is also conditional in nature and
is exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of the President. Section 72 of
the Government of India Act, 1919 vested the Governor General with similar
power to promulgate Ordinances in emergencies. Reliance is placed on Bhagat
Singh v. The King Emperor (AIR 1931 PC 111), wherein the Privy Council
examined the issue of justiciability of the exercise of power under Section 72
of the Govt. of India Act, 1919 and held as under:-
"That raises directly the question who is to be the judge of whether a state
of emergency exists. A state of emergency is something that does not permit of
any exact definition: It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic
action which is to be judged as such by someone. It is more than obvious that
someone must be the Governor-General and he alone. Any other view would render
utterly inept the whole provision. Emergency demands immediate action and that
action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor-General. It is he alone who
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
ARTICLE 213
3\. In support of the first contention it is canvassed on behalf of the
petitioners that the power under Article 213 is conditional and its exercise
is by the Governor and not by the Legislature. Further, the exercise of power
is contingent upon subjective satisfaction of the Governor as to existence of
the conditions set out under Article 213. The power under Article 356 is
comparable in all respects. The said power is also conditional in nature and
is exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of the President. Section 72 of
the Government of India Act, 1919 vested the Governor General with similar
power to promulgate Ordinances in emergencies. Reliance is placed on Bhagat
Singh v. The King Emperor (AIR 1931 PC 111), wherein the Privy Council
examined the issue of justiciability of the exercise of power under Section 72
of the Govt. of India Act, 1919 and held as under:-
"That raises directly the question who is to be the judge of whether a state
of emergency exists. A state of emergency is something that does not permit of
any exact definition: It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic
action which is to be judged as such by someone. It is more than obvious that
someone must be the Governor-General and he alone. Any other view would render
utterly inept the whole provision. Emergency demands immediate action and that
action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor-General. It is he alone who
can promulgate the ordinance.
Yet, if the view urged by the petitioners is right, the judgment of the
Governor-General could be upset either (a) by this Board declaring that once
the ordinance was challenged in proceedings by way of habeas corpus the Crown
ought to prove affirmatively before a court that a state of emergency existed,
or (b) by a finding of this Board-after a contentions and protracted enquiry
that no state of emergency existed, and that the ordinance with all that
followed on it was illegal.
In fact, the contention is so completely without foundation on the face of it
that it would be idle to allow the appellant to argue about it.
It was next said that the ordinance did not conduce to the peace and good
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
ARTICLE 213
3\. In support of the first contention it is canvassed on behalf of the
petitioners that the power under Article 213 is conditional and its exercise
is by the Governor and not by the Legislature. Further, the exercise of power
is contingent upon subjective satisfaction of the Governor as to existence of
the conditions set out under Article 213. The power under Article 356 is
comparable in all respects. The said power is also conditional in nature and
is exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of the President. Section 72 of
the Government of India Act, 1919 vested the Governor General with similar
power to promulgate Ordinances in emergencies. Reliance is placed on Bhagat
Singh v. The King Emperor (AIR 1931 PC 111), wherein the Privy Council
examined the issue of justiciability of the exercise of power under Section 72
of the Govt. of India Act, 1919 and held as under:-
"That raises directly the question who is to be the judge of whether a state
of emergency exists. A state of emergency is something that does not permit of
any exact definition: It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic
action which is to be judged as such by someone. It is more than obvious that
someone must be the Governor-General and he alone. Any other view would render
utterly inept the whole provision. Emergency demands immediate action and that
action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor-General. It is he alone who
can promulgate the ordinance.
Yet, if the view urged by the petitioners is right, the judgment of the
Governor-General could be upset either (a) by this Board declaring that once
the ordinance was challenged in proceedings by way of habeas corpus the Crown
ought to prove affirmatively before a court that a state of emergency existed,
or (b) by a finding of this Board-after a contentions and protracted enquiry
that no state of emergency existed, and that the ordinance with all that
followed on it was illegal.
In fact, the contention is so completely without foundation on the face of it
that it would be idle to allow the appellant to argue about it.
It was next said that the ordinance did not conduce to the peace and good
1997 SC 1413), it was held that the court cannot interfere with the policy and
declare it unconstitutional violating Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.
ARTICLE 14
38\. Challenge is also made by the petitioners on the ground that the
ordinance is violative of Article 14 being unreasonable and arbitrary. As
already noticed in State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell & Co. (supra), law by
the State Legislature can be struck down on two grounds, (1) Lack of
Legislative Competence and (2) Violation of any of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in part HI of the Constitution or of any other Constitutional
provisions. We have already held that there was no lack of Legislative
Competence since the Governor issued the ordinance under Article 213 and
further that Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution was not violated, the
ordinance cannot be struck down on the ground that it is unreasonable and
arbitrary. In our opinion the Governor before promulgating the ordinance was
aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. This Court
cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Governor.
