Competition Commission of India
Hemant Sharma & Others vs All India Chess Federation (Aicf) on 12 July, 2018
                             COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA
                                    Case No. 79 of 2011
    In Re:
    Hemant Sharma                                         Informant No. 1
    240, Bashiratganj
    Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
    Devendra Bajpai                                       Informant No. 2
    5/588, Vikas Nagar
    Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
    Gurpreet Pal Singh                                    Informant No. 3
    6E, Matasundari Place
    DDU Marg, New Delhi
    Karun Duggal                                          Informant No. 4
    30-A, Kewal Park Extension
    Opposite Metro Pillar 72, Azadpur
    Delhi
    And
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
    Through its Secretary
    Hall No.82, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium
    Chennai, Tamil Nadu
       Case No. 79 of 2011                                         Page 1 of 45
          CORAM
         Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
         Chairperson
         Mr. Sudhir Mital
         Member
         Mr. Augustine Peter
         Member
         Mr. U. C. Nahta
         Member
         Mr. Justice G.P. Mittal
         Member
         Appearances during the final hearing held on 21st February, 2018
          For the Informant            : Ms. Shivani Lakhanpal, Advocate
                                         Informant-in-person
          For the Opposite Party       : Mr. J. Sivanandaraaj, Advocate
                                         Ms. Shalini Kaul, Advocate
                                         Ms. Ridhima Sharma, Advocate
                       Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
    A. Background
1\. The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
Competition Act, 2002 (the 'Act') by Mr. Hemant Sharma ('Informant No.1'), Mr.
Devendra Bajpai ('Informant No.2'), Mr. Gurpreet Pal Singh ('Informant No.3')
and Mr. Karun Duggal ('Informant No.4') (All collectively referred to as the
'Informants') against All India Chess Federation (the 'OP'/'AICF'), alleging,
inter-alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 2 of 45
2\. The information was filed by the Informants pursuant to the directions of
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No.5770 of 2011,
contesting certain conduct and practices of AICF. Looking into the nature of
allegations and the issues involved, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court disposed of
the Writ Petition with the direction to file an information before the
Commission under Section 19 (1)(a) of the Act.
3\. AICF is a society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration
Act, 1975 as the National Sports Federation ('NSF') for the sport of chess.
AICF is also recognised by and affiliated to, Federation Internationale des
Echecs ('FIDE'), which is the apex International body governing the sport of
chess.
4\. The Informants are chess players registered with AICF on an annual basis.
The Informants have contended that the registration form, inter-alia, contains
a declaration which states that the player will not participate in any
tournament / championship that is not authorised by AICF. It has been further
contended that such registration is necessary if the players want to be
selected for National or International events. The Informants have alleged
that if any player participates in any tournament not authorised by AICF,
he/she will be banned for a period of one (1) year from participating in the
National Chess Championships and other events. Further, such player would have
to surrender fifty (50) percent of the prize money to AICF, if any, from such
unauthorised events and tender an unconditional apology along with an
undertaking that he/she will not participate in any unauthorised tournament in
future.
5\. The Informants submitted that chess players all over the world are given
International ELO ratings by FIDE according to their playing strength in
various tournaments, ELO rating is an important benchmark for all chess
players. Being the benchmark, this rating is essential for any professional
chess player. It has been alleged that the ELO rating points of the Informants
were removed by AICF without giving any prior  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 3 of
45 notice due to their participation in the chess tournament sponsored by the
Chess Association of India ("CAI"), which was not authorised by AICF. In
addition to Informants, AICF also removed ratings of 151 chess players on the
ground.
6\. According to the Informants, the above conduct and practices of AICF are
in contravention of the provisions of the Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
B. Prima-facie consideration of Commission
7\. Upon consideration of information, the Commission was of a view that there
existed a prima-facie case of contravention of the provisions of the Act by
AICF. Accordingly, the Commission passed an order dated 9th February, 2012
under Section 26(1) of the Act directing the Director General ("DG") to cause
an investigation into the matter. After a detailed investigation, the DG
submitted its investigation report on 12th October, 2012.
C. Findings of investigation
8\. Findings of the DG are summarised as under:
> 8.1 AICF is an enterprise: DG found AICF to be an enterprise under Section
> 2(h) of the Act, which defines the term 'enterprise' as a person or
> Department of Government engaged in any of the economic activity specified
> in the Section. Reliance was placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi
> High Court in Writ Petition (C) No. 5770/2011 (Hemant Sharma and Others vs.
> Union of India and Others), to hold AICF to be an enterprise. AICF
> admittedly collects a registration fee from its players on an annual basis.
> Additionally, the charter documents of AICF allow it to organise chess
> tournaments and collect charges from the players participating in such
> tournaments. AICF also provides technical support for conduct of chess
> tournaments. This clearly brings out  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 4 of 45 the
> fact that AICF provides services to the Informants, other chess players and
> those who are interested in conducting chess tournaments/events. All these
> economic activities fall within the ambit of Section 2(h) of the Act and
> thus, AICF has been found to be an enterprise.
8.2 Relevant market: From the demand side, chess players cannot shift to any
other sports body conducting any other sport in response to a change in the
supply conditions of the sport of chess. From the supply side, conducting and
governing chess events in India constitute a separate and unique service
market as the supply of such service cannot be considered substitutable or
interchangeable with any other sport like hockey, etc. Accordingly, the
relevant market has been found to be the market for "conducting and governing
domestic and international chess activities for both men and women and the
underlying economic activities in India".
8.3 Dominance: Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports ('MYAS') has granted
status of NSF to AICF. Further, AICF is the only national level chess
federation affiliated to FIDE. As a result, AICF happens to be the sole and
exclusive authority to govern the game of chess in India, which includes
selection of Indian chess players, conducting national, open and international
tournaments in India, approving the tournaments, placing restrictions on
participation of players in tournaments not approved by it, etc., thereby
allowing it to enjoy a position of strength to act independently of the market
forces.
8.4 Abuse of Dominance: AICF has contravened the provisions of Sections
4(2)(a)(i), 4(2)(b)(i) and 4(2)(c) of the Act. The brief details of
contravention found are as under:
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 5 of 45
(a) Restrictions on participating in Authorised/ Un-authorised Tournaments/
Championships of AICF: In terms of the registration form submitted by chess
players to AICF, they are required to give a declaration to the effect that
they will not participate in any tournament/ championship not authorised by
it. AICF Rules and Regulations as well as its Code of Conduct provide that
players participating in unauthorised chess events may be subjected to
disciplinary action. Based on these, they were banned for a period of one (1)
year due to their participation in a tournament organised by CAI, which was
not authorised by AICF. It has also been noticed that AICF has displayed a
caution on its website, which is against the tournaments organised by CAI. In
view of the above, it has been concluded that AICF restricts chess players and
organisations like CAI in providing their services for promotion and
development of the sport of chess and enhancing the talent of players. Such
stipulation limits and/or restricts the services of players and organisations
and was found to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(i)
and Section 4(2)(c) of the Act.
(b) Making organization of events commercially unviable for competing
organizers: The above discussed restrictions imposed by AICF, on organizations
such as CAI and the players, including the Informants, have a deterrent effect
whereby chess players would not prefer to participate in chess tournaments
being organised by other associations like CAI. AICF thus, indulges in
practices which result in denial of market access. By imposing ban on players
like the Informants and removing their ELO/FIDE rating, AICF makes
organisation of chess events difficult for other competitors, by not allowing
them to get the best resources and players for organising/participating in
their events.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 6 of 45
This was found to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(c) of
the Act.
(c) Removal of ELO/FIDE rating of players by AICF: ELO ratings being the
benchmark of standard performance, is the most important rating for chess
players. AICF imposes unfair or discriminatory conditions on players by
debarring them from its roll and also by removing their ELO rating on their
participation in chess events not approved by it.
(d) Sharing of non-refundable Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) by AICF:
> The investigation has revealed that the practice of collecting EMD out of
> grants provided to AICF amounts to misutilisation of funds as it deprives
> the organisers to utilise this amount for meeting the expenses of
> tournaments. This practice of AICF was found to be in contravention of
> Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
(e) Sharing of entry fee for various categories: In terms of the norms of AICF
regarding National Championships, any chess player can participate in the
competition under the category 'special/ donor entry' and there is no
restriction on the number of such entries. AICF collects fifty (50) percent of
the entry fee in this process, which ranges between Rupees three hundred and
fifty (350) to Rupees one thousand and five hundred (1500) for selected
entries and Rupees two thousand (2000) to Rupees ten thousand (10,000) for
special/donor entries. This practice was found to be unfair and in
contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
(f) Special/donor entries and non-implementation of provision of the LTDP
regarding merit in the process of selection of probables in National
Championships: Upon examining the process adopted in Case No. 79 of 2011 Page
7 of 45 Delhi Chess Association, Haryana Chess Association, Gujarat State
Chess Association and Tamil Nadu State Chess Association, it has been found
that AICF did not implement provisions regarding selection of probables as per
Long Term Development Plan ('LTDP'), which is prepared by respective NSFs as
per the code of MYAS issued in 2011. Contrary to the stipulations of LTDP,
AICF has been allowing entries, other than on merit, under the type
special/donor entries and collecting higher amount of fees from such special
entrants. The players of special/donor entries are not having any meritorious
background in various chess events conducted under the umbrella of tournaments
organised by AICF. Such practice of allowing entry to a specific privileged
class who are able to pay higher entry fee was found to be in contravention of
Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
(g) Misuse of discretion by the Secretary in nomination of players and non-
maintenance of proper record and supervision in the selection of players: As
per AICF Regulations, its Secretary is vested with the discretion to nominate
players for various chess tournaments. The Secretary, AICF has been found to
have nominated players for various national chess tournaments without any
justification. Such practice of AICF granting undue privilege to select
players without any justification was found to be in contravention of Section
4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
(h) Award of certificates and their misuse: NSFs are authorised to issue
certificates to chess players. Investigation has revealed that AICF has
delegated the powers of issuing certificates to organisers as per their
format. AICF neither has any control over maintaining the uniformity in the
contents and proper serial number/certificate numbers nor has Case No. 79 of
2011 Page 8 of 45 any record of the certificates issued or their distribution.
In view of these, it was concluded that AICF's conduct is in contravention of
Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
8.5 Violation of Section 3 of the Act: With regards to violation of Section 3
of the Act, it has been concluded by the DG that practices and various clauses
in the Constitution and Bye Laws of AICF have caused appreciable adverse
effect on competition in the country because they have harmed competition, in
terms of various factors enumerated under Section 19(3) of the Act, such as
creation of entry barriers, driving existing competitors out of the market and
foreclosure of competition. These have the effect of limiting and/or
controlling supply, market, technical development and provisions of services,
in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3)(b) of the Act. As regards
violation of Section 3(4), DG found that vertical relationship does not exist
between AICF and its players and thus, would not attract the provisions of
Section 3(4) of the Act.
D. Consideration of Investigation Report by the Commission 9 The Commission
considered the Investigation Report submitted by the DG, in its ordinary
meeting, held on 08th November, 2012 and decided to forward copies of the same
to the parties for filing their objections / suggestions.
E. Proceedings before the Hon'ble Madras High Court 10 Subsequently, AICF
filed a Writ Petition, bearing Writ Petition (C) No. 34039 of 2012, before the
Hon'ble Madras High Court contesting the proceedings before the Commission.
Vide order dated 18th December, 2012, the Hon'ble Madras High Court granted
stay against the proceedings before the Commission, till further orders.
Thereafter, the Hon'ble Madras High Court, vide another order dated 05th
January,  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 9 of 45 2017, vacated the stay. Being
aggrieved by the order of the Learned Single Judge of the Hon'ble Madras High
Court, AICF preferred an intra court appeal before Division Bench of the
Hon'ble Madras High Court. The Division Bench was pleased to order status-quo
on 28th March, 2017. However, on hearing the parties, on 05th April, 2017, the
Division Bench of the Hon'ble Madras High Court vacated its direction to
maintain status-quo and permitted the Commission to proceed with hearing in
the instant matter. Accordingly, on 13th April, 2017, the Commission directed
the parties to file their suggestions/objections to the Investigation Report
and appear for oral hearing on 23rd May, 2017. The suggestions/objections to
the Investigation Report were filed by AICF and the Informants on 12th May,
2017 and 23rd May, 2017, respectively. The Commission heard the parties on the
Investigation Report on 23 rd May, 2017 and directed AICF to file an Affidavit
to clarify certain issues raised during the hearing along with its Long Term
Development Plan. Accordingly, AICF filed an Affidavit and its Long Term
Development Plan on 29th May, 2017.
F. Order dated 11th December, 2017 passed by the Commission under Section
26(8) of the Act 11 Considering the materials available on record and upon
hearing the parties, the Commission did not agree with the findings of the DG
in relation to the relevant market and existence of vertical relationship
between AICF and chess players and decided to inquire further into the matter
about certain additional facts that the Commission considered relevant to the
present case. Accordingly, the Commission issued an order dated 11th December,
2017 to the parties under Section 26(8) of the Act. The major observations of
the Commission in the said order are summarised as under:
11.1 While agreeing with the DG on the aspect of AICF as an enterprise, the
Commission relied on additional material, including excerpts from the  Case
No. 79 of 2011 Page 10 of 45 website of FIDE and financials of AICF, to infer
AICF as an enterprise. Given the nature of allegations and characteristics of
the services involved, the Commission defined two relevant markets: (a)
'market for organization of professional chess tournaments/events'; and (b)
'market for services of chess players'. It was observed that AICF enjoys
dominant position on account of the regulatory powers enjoyed by AICF (under
the pyramid structure of sports governance) in the market for organization of
professional chess tournaments/events in India. AICF was also stated to be
dominant in the market for services of chess players due to its regulatory
power including its abilities to restrict movement by imposing conditions on
professional players who do not possess any bargaining power.
11.2 The abusive conduct, as identified by the DG, relating to the process of
bidding and sharing of non-refundable earnest money deposit by AICF; sharing
of entry fee for various categories; and making organisation of events
commercially unviable for competing organisers were observed by the Commission
to be in the market for organisation of professional chess players in India.
The conduct relating to special/donor entries and non- implementation of LTDP
with respect to merit in the process of selection of probables in National
Championships; use of discretion by the secretary in the nomination of players
and non-maintenance of proper record in selection of players and award of
certificates were observed to fall in the market for services of chess players
in India. Restrictions on chess players and organisations like CAI and removal
of ELO/FIDE rating of players by AICF were observed to be relating to both the
markets.
11.3 The Commission also observed that there exists a vertical relationship
between AICF and chess players as AICF buys their services for organisation of
chess events. The Commission further noted that the undertaking prescribed by
AICF regarding ban on its players to participate in events not Case No. 79 of
2011 Page 11 of 45 authorised by AICF amounts to exclusive distribution and
refusal to deal. Non-compliance of such undertaking will result in banning of
the player and removal of their ELO rating, as was done in the case of the
Informants. These consequences were stated to create entry barriers, foreclose
competition and restrict opportunities available for chess players. Since the
said conduct was likely to have appreciable adverse effect on competition, the
Commission was of the view that the said conduct was in the nature of
contravention covered under Sections 3(4)(c) and 3(4)(d) read with Section
3(1) of the Act.
12 Based on the above, the OP was directed to show cause as to why it should
not be held to be in contravention of Sections 4(2)(a)(i), 4(2)(b)(i) and
4(2)(c) read with Section 4(1) of the Act and Sections 3(4)(c) and 3(4)(d)
read with Section 3(1) of the Act. The OP was directed to file its response to
the show cause notice of the Commission by 2nd February, 2018. The Informants
were directed to file their counter response by 9th February, 2018. It was
made clear that the findings of Investigation Report that were not differed
with would be read in conjunction with the observations recorded therein. AICF
filed its reply on 15th February, 2018. The parties were heard by the
Commission on 21st February, 2018. The Commission directed the Informants to
file their submissions thereon. AICF was directed to file its rejoinder, if
any, with a copy to Informants, latest by 13th March, 2018. Submissions were
filed by Informants and AICF on 6th March, 2018 and 13th March, 2018,
respectively. These would be dealt with in detail, while analysing the matter
on merits.
G. Analysis and findings of the Commission 13 The Commission has perused the
information, the Investigation Report, the suggestions/ objections to the
Investigation Report filed by the parties, submissions of parties to the order
dated 11th December, 2018 of the Commission and other material available on
record as well as the contentions raised by the parties in the  Case No. 79 of
2011 Page 12 of 45 hearing on 21st February, 2018. Upon consideration of the
aforesaid, the following issues arise for determination in the present matter:
(i) What is/are the relevant market(s)?
(ii) Whether AICF enjoys dominant position in the relevant market(s)?
(iii) If the answer to Issue No. (ii) is in affirmative, whether AICF has
abused its dominant position in the relevant market(s)?
(iv) Whether the declaration, which the players are made to sign by
undertaking not to play any open tournament, is anti-competitive agreement as
per the Act and it causes appreciable adverse effect on competition as per
Section 3(4) of the Act read with Section 3(1) of the Act?
14 Before dealing with the merits of the case, the Commission would first deal
with the preliminary issue raised by AICF i.e. AICF is not an 'enterprise'
within the meaning of Section 2(h) of the Act and therefore, the provisions of
the Act would not apply to it.
Is AICF an enterprise?
15 The Commission notes that Section 2(h) of the Act defines the term
'enterprise' as under: "enterprise" means a person or a department of the
Government, who or which is, or has been, engaged in any activity, relating to
the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of
articles or goods, or the provision of services, of any kind, or in
investment, or in the business of acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing
with shares, debentures or other securities of any other body corporate,
either directly or through one or more of its units or divisions or
subsidiaries, whether such unit or division or subsidiary is located at the
same place where the enterprise is located or at a different place or at
different places, but does not include any activity of the Government
relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government including all
activities carried on by the departments of the Central Government dealing
with atomic energy, currency, defence and space. The term  Case No. 79 of 2011
Page 13 of 45 'person' in turn has been defined under Section 2(l) of the Act
to include 'a co- operative society registered under any law relating to
cooperative societies'. (emphasis added) 16 Hence, it may be noted that the
definition of 'enterprise' is wide enough to include within its purview any
economic activity carried on by any entity. As per this definition, an entity
which is engaged in any activity relating to production, storage, supply,
distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods, or provision of
services is an enterprise. The activity in question merely needs to be an
economic activity. An activity can be considered as an economic activity if an
entity is operating in some market and where there are buyers and sellers.
17 As stated earlier, DG has found that AICF is an enterprise under Section
2(h) of the Act.The Commission in its order dated 11th December, 2017, agreed
with the DG and noted that AICF is an enterprise as defined under Section 2(h)
of the Act as it is engaged in organisation of chess tournaments/ events and
also undertakes incidental/ related activities that generate income.
18 AICF vehemently objected to the conclusion of DG as well as observations of
the Commission, in its order dated 11th December, 2017, that AICF is an
'enterprise' under Section 2(h) of the Act. AICF has claimed that, being a
regulator of the game of chess, it performs its functions without any profit
motive and is thus not an 'enterprise' under Section 2(h) of the Act. As per
AICF, the sport of chess does not generate interest of viewers and there is no
income earned through sale of tickets, television rights or advertisements. It
was submitted that mere collection of registration fee is not an economic
activity and does not generate income for AICF either. This fee collected is
utilised towards maintenance of the database and preparation of the rank list
etc.  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 14 of 45 19 It has been further contended that
none of the tournaments referred to in Commission's order dated 11th December,
2017, were organised by AICF and they were instead organised by respective
State Associations or clubs. AICF only monitors and regulates these
tournaments and strictly keeps itself out of the economic activities
associated with organisation of tournaments. It stated that Rs. 9 lakhs, which
was received by AICF from Doordarshan, was an exception and was for the
purpose of preparing highlights of matches. Otherwise it does not earn any
income from TV rights, advertisements or telecast rights. In view of these, it
has been contended that the Commission has no jurisdiction over AICF.
20 The Informants, while agreeing with the findings of DG urged that AICF, is
an "enterprise" under the Act. According to them, AICF neither functions as a
regulator of the game of chess nor discharges any statutory or constitutional
functions. They contended that AICF has several sources of income such as
grants from Government of India, registration fee, recognition fees (i.e.
share of prize money) entry fee, non- refundable earnest money deposits, etc.
AICF also earns by organising chess tournaments under its supervision,
granting participation certificates, sponsorship and television rights. The
Informants have placed reliance on the judgment dated 4th November, 2011
passed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Hemant Sharma and others
Vs. Union of India [WP (C) No. 5770 of 2011] holding AICF to be an enterprise
under the provisions of the Act. The Informants have also relied upon the
judgment dated 07th March, 2017 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Competition
Commission of India vs. Coordination Committee of Artist & Technicians of W.B.
Film and Television and others [Civil Appeal No. 6691 of 2014] to suggest that
AICF is an enterprise.
21 From the facts of the present case, the Commission notes that AICF is a
society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 and
is thus a 'person', as defined in Section 2(l) of the Act. AICF is recognised
as NSF for the sport of chess by the Government of India. AICF is also the
only organisation from  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 15 of 45 India to be
recognised by and affiliated to FIDE, which is the International body
governing the sport of chess. In terms of its Constitution and Bye laws, AICF
has inter-alia been established to organise national and international
championships. Organisation of chess events/ tournaments is, inter-alia, a
revenue generating activity and falls within the ambit of services covered
under Section 2(h) of the Act. Thus, the very fact that AICF has a mandate to
undertake the economic activity of organizing chess events tournaments under
its Constitution, makes it an enterprise as per the Act.
22 Moreover, a perusal of the material available on record shows that AICF,
inter- alia, has been engaged in organisation of chess events. For instance,
the Annual Report of AICF for the Financial Year 2015-16 states that "the
Central Council of AICF decided to honour the above medal winning Olympiad
team members by organising an India-China summit clash chess match with the
prize fund of Rs. 10 lakhs sponsored by AICF. (emphasis added)" The extracts
from the website of FIDE also confirm that "to celebrate the historic bronze
medal winning performance of India in the Tromso Olympiad 2014, All India
Chess Federation organises India - China Chess summit 2015, supported by
Telangna State Chess Association at Marriot Hotel, Hyderabad from 2nd to 10th
March". The same website, at another place, states that "The All India Chess
Federation (AICF) will organise the World Youth U-16 Chess Olympiad in
Ahmedabad, India from 10th December (Arrival) to 20th December (Departure),
2017 conducted under the auspices of Federation Internationale Des Echecs
(FIDE)". The Annual Report of AICF for the financial year 2011-12 states that
"We [AICF] organized World Junior Chess Championships at Chennai and Asian
Schools Chess Championships at New Delhi...". All these evidences were
confronted to the OP vide order dated 11th December, 2017. AICF has stated
that none of these tournaments were "organised" by them but by the respective
State Associations or clubs. It further explained that AICF has either
conceptualised the said events or was allotted the said events by the FIDE.
Role of AICF is limited to contributing to the prize money, providing
technical support,  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 16 of 45 monitoring, regulating
and advising keeping itself out of the economic activities associated with it.
AICF has placed on record the extracts of minutes of the meetings in support
of its contention that these tournaments were organised by the State
Associations or clubs.
23 In this regard, the Commission observes that in terms of Section 2(h) of
the Act, a person would be an enterprise, irrespective of whether the
activities mentioned therein are carried out directly or indirectly through
units, divisions or subsidiaries. Thus, if AICF conducts chess events through
or in collaboration with the State associations/club, these would be deemed to
have been organised by AICF making it an enterprise. Further, the self-
proclamation on the website and the annual report, as detailed above, which
could not be explained by AICF, clearly bring out that AICF had in fact been a
part of organisation of all those chess events/tournaments and there is no
scope to assume the contrary.
24 In addition to the above, the financial statements of AICF for the
financial years 2008-09, 2010-11 and 2015-16 clearly show that AICF received
income from sale of advertisement space, sale of media rights and sponsorship.
AICF in its response has sought to negate these findings by submitting that
the documents referred by the Commission in its order were not audited
Financials of AICF but mere estimates/budgets. The said budgets are said to be
prepared with the intention of demonstrating that the AICF has identified
means to secure the finances it requires to meet its estimated expenditure for
the subject financial years. It has further stated that use of the words
"advertisement" and "sponsorship" in the budget does not indicate that the
advertisement rights are sold by AICF. The Commission is however, not
convinced with these explanations. AICF has not demonstrated as to how the
contents of audited accounts are different from the unaudited accounts. The
minutes of the Annual General Body meeting of AICF dated 20th June, 2008,
inter-alia, state that "As recommended by the Central Council it was resolved
to share the remuneration from Doordarshan for telecast of our chess
programmes with LIVE  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 17 of 45 Tele Shows in the
ratio of 40:60 (60% for LTS)". The Informant has also submitted that AICF
generates income from registration fee, recognition fees (i.e. share of prize
money) entry fee, non-refundable earnest money deposits, donor entry fees,
etc., which is evident from chart on money received by AICF in the Financial
Year 2011- 12, 2012-13 and 2013-14. These aspects clearly establish the
revenue generating nature of the activity.
25 AICF has also asserted that all fees collected by AICF including the
registration fees, earnest money deposit is based on its financial regulations
and the intention behind collection of fees is to regulate the game and
collect funds to plough it back to sport in the form of prize money to
players, expenses for training of coaches, arbiters, etc. It has further
submitted that the money received from Doordarshan is purely used for
promotion of the game. It has also been strongly contended that AICF does not
have profit motive and thus, is not an enterprise under the provisions of the
Act.
26 The Commission notes that though AICF may plough back all its revenue into
the game of chess but that still does not change the nature of economic
activities performed by it. It is observed that concept of enterprise does not
depend on profit motive alone. The defining feature of the concept
'enterprise' is that it engages in an economic activity within the ambit of
Section 2(h) of the Act. If a person is engaged in any such activity, no
matter with or without profit motive, it would be considered as an enterprise,
as it interfaces with the market and hence, with other alternatives for the
product or service in question. The primary task of a sports federation is to
undertake regulatory activities such as framing rules and undertaking measures
to preserve the integrity of the sport. However, absence of a profit motive
does not alter the enterprise status if the concerned entity pursues economic
activities, and that too income generating economic activities.
27 The decisional practice of the Commission has also been to regard sports
federations as 'enterprise' if they are engaged in activities covered under
Section 2(h) of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 18 of 45
Reference is drawn to the decisions of the Commission in Dhanraj Pillay and
others v. Hockey India (Case No. 73 of 2011) and Surinder Singh Barmi v. Board
for Control of Cricket in India (Case No. 61 of 2010) in this regard.
Subjecting economic activities of sports federation to competition law is also
consistent with the practices followed by mature competition regimes like the
European Union. In Motosyklestistiki Omospondia Ellados NPID (MOTOE) v.
Elliniko Dimosio [Case No. C-49/07 (2008) ECR I - 4863], it was held that "A
legal person whose activities consist not only in taking part in
administrative decisions authorising the organisation of motorcycling events,
but also in organising such events itself and in entering, in that connection,
into sponsorship, advertising and insurance contracts, falls within the scope
of Articles 82 EC and 86 EC."
28 In the light of above, the Commission concludes that AICF has been engaging
in organisation of professional chess events/ tournaments as well as in
incidental revenue generating activities. Performance of these activities by
AICF is found to be sufficient to hold it as an enterprise as defined under
Section 2(h) of the Act.
29 AICF has raised another preliminary issue concerning non-service of the
order dated 09th February, 2012 under Section 26(1) of the Act, which
according to it amounts to violation of principles of natural justice. It has
contended that the said order came to its knowledge only when it received the
Investigation Report dated 11th October, 2012\. AICF as such was unable to
challenge the proceedings before the Commission including the order passed
under Section 26(1) of the Act due to non-service of the said order. However,
at a later stage, AICF challenged the order dated 09th February, 2012 before
the Hon'ble Madras High Court by filing a writ petition [Writ Petition (C) No.
34039 of 2012] and the same is pending.
30 The Commission notes that a preliminary conference was held with the
parties on 15th December, 2012 before forming its prima facie opinion. It was
only after holding such conference, that the order dated 09th February, 2012
was passed by the Commission. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Competition
Commission of India v.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 19 of 45
Steel Authority of India Limited and Another, (2010) SCC 744, held that
issuance of a direction under Section 26(1) is only an administrative action
and the prima-facie opinion expressed therein is not a final determination.
Therefore, the parties need not even be heard before passing a direction under
Section 26(1) and they cannot seek the same as a matter of right. In the
instant matter, the DG had issued a notice dated 19th March, 2012 to AICF in
relation to investigation in the present case. The notice inter-alia mentioned
the allegations made against AICF and that CCI has directed the DG to initiate
investigation proceedings in the matter. It is strange that AICF claims that
it was unaware of the proceedings before the Commission including the
investigation despite service of such notice by the DG. The records of the
case including the said order were open to inspection and any vigilant party
could have taken a certified copy of the said order by making an application
under the relevant provisions of the Competition Commission of India (General)
Regulations, 2009. However, no effort was made by AICF to make use of these
provisions. Thus, the Commission finds no merit in the argument of AICF that
principles of natural justice were violated on account of non-service of the
order dated 9th February, 2012, passed under Section 26(1) of the Act, upon
it.
31 Having dealt with the preliminary issues, the Commission proceeds to deal
with the issues framed by the Commission.
Issue 1: What is/are the relevant market(s)?
32 In any case of alleged abuse of dominant position, delineation of relevant
market is important as it sets out the boundaries of competition analysis.
Proper delineation of relevant market is necessary to identify in a systematic
manner, the competing alternatives available to the consumers and accordingly
the competitive constraints faced by the enterprise under scrutiny. The
process of defining the relevant market is in essence a process of determining
the substitutable goods or services as also to delineate the geographic scope
within which such goods or services compete. It is  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page
20 of 45 within the defined product and geographic boundaries that the
competitive effects of a particular business conduct are to be assessed.
Section 2(r) of the Act defines 'relevant market' as the market determined
with reference to the relevant product market or the relevant geographic
market or with reference to both the markets. Section 2(s) of the Act defines
'relevant geographic market' as a market comprising of the area in which the
conditions of competition for supply of goods or provision of services or
demand of goods or services are distinctly homogeneous and can be
distinguished from the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas.
Section 2(t) of the Act defines 'relevant product market' as a market
comprising of all those product or services which are regarded as
interchangeable or substitutable by the consumer by reason of characteristics
of the products or services, their prices and intended use.
33 In the instant case, the DG has found the relevant market to be the market
for 'conducting and governing domestic and international chess activities for
both men and women and the underlying economic activities in India'. While
differing with the definition of DG, the Commission, in its order dated 11th
December, 2017 observed that there are two relevant markets in the instant
case, namely, 'market for organization of professional chess
tournaments/events' and 'market for services of chess players', keeping in
mind the impugned restrictions on the chess players and on the organisers of
chess events/tournaments, and the effects flowing therefrom. AICF objected to
the definition of relevant market proposed by the Commission as being
erroneous.
34 Given the nature of findings of investigation in the instant case, the
Commission notes that the allegations concern restriction on organisation of
chess events/tournaments without approval of AICF and on chess players from
participation in such events. The Commission reiterates the view taken in its
order dated 11th December, 2018 that the relevant market for assessment of
these  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 21 of 45 restrictions needs to be defined by
taking into account impugned restrictions and the probable effects which arise
from such restrictions.
35 In Dhanraj Pillay case, the Commission noted that the sports sector
comprises multitude of relationships. For example, a sports federation may be
a seller of various rights such as media rights, sponsorship rights, and
franchise rights associated with sport event (s) under its purview and
correspondingly, there would be a separate set of consumers for each of such
rights. However, the ultimate viewers of sport events are the end consumers,
who influence the popularity of the sport, which in-turn determines the value
proposition of the commercials associated in different verticals. Also, a
sports federation requires services of players, officials etc. for staging an
event which makes sports federations themselves as consumers. In this
multitude of relationships, defining the relevant consumer would enable
defining the relevant market.
36 With respect to the assessment of the impugned conducts relating to process
of bidding and sharing of non-refundable earnest money deposit by AICF,
sharing of entry fee for various categories and making organization of events
commercially unviable for competing organisers, the Commission finds focal
service to be organisation of professional chess tournaments in India. The
Commission notes that every sport has unique characteristics which distinguish
it from other sports. Given the unique characteristics of chess, it is
unlikely that consumers will regard any other sport or event as substitutable.
Similarly, from an intended use perspective also entertainment from sport may
not be regarded as substitutable with other forms of general entertainment.
Thus, other sports and other forms of entertainment do not constrain chess in
any manner. On a perusal of the materials available on record, including the
Investigation Report and the written submission of the parties, it emerges
that chess tournaments are conducted at National, State and District level.
Chess tournaments are also conducted by universities, clubs and other
organisations. However, the Commission does not find it necessary to segment
or sub-segment the  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 22 of 45 market based on
different levels as the impugned restrictions of AICF apply to all types of
professional chess tournaments/ events organised in India. Accordingly, the
relevant product market to assess restrictions on organisations of the chess
events will be the "market for organisation of professional chess
tournaments/events". In this regard AICF has stated that it does not organise
any event and as such is not a constituent of the said relevant market for
organisation of professional chess tournaments in India. The Commission has
already dealt with the aspect of AICF being an enterprise involved in
organisation of professional chess tournament, hence their argument is not
tenable.
37 As regards the assessment of the impugned conduct relating to special/donor
entries and non-implementation of LTDP with respect to merit in the process of
selection of probables in National Championships; use of discretion by the
secretary in the nomination of players and non-maintenance of proper record in
selection of players and award of certificates, the Commission notes that AICF
is hiring the services of chess players. AICF has argued that neither the
chess players are service providers nor does it avail any service being
provided by the chess players. In this respect the Commission observed that
AICF requires the services of chess players for organising chess events which
makes it a consumer of chess players. AICF cannot substitute the service
provided by chess players with any other service. The monetary consideration
for such services is in the form of sharing entry fee with the organisers of
professional chess events, irrespective of whether such entry is in regular
category or special/donors category. Accordingly, the relevant product market
to assess the restrictions on chess players will be the "market for services
of chess players".
38 The relevant market for assessment of restrictions on chess players and on
organizations like CAI, and actions taken such as debarment and removal of
ELO/FIDE rating of players would be market for organisation of professional
chess tournaments/events and market for services of chess players, as the said
conducts are relatable to both the relevant markets.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 23 of 45
39 As regards the relevant geographic market, it is observed that AICF being
the NSF, it governs the game of chess by way of stipulating rules and
regulations that are applicable across India. As a result, the conditions of
competition in both the product markets defined above are homogeneous across
the nation and thus, the geographic dimension of both the product markets
would cover the whole of India.
40 Accordingly, the Commission concludes that relevant markets in the instant
case would be:
(a) The 'market for organization of professional chess tournaments/ events in
India'
(b) The 'market for services of chess players in India'.
Issue 2: Whether AICF enjoys dominant position in the above defined relevant
market(s)?
41 The DG has observed that AICF being the NSF for the game of chess is the
only national level chess federation affiliated to FIDE. It is the sole and
exclusive authority to regulate and govern the game of chess in India, which
includes selection of Indian chess players, conducting national, open and
international tournaments, approving tournaments, placing restrictions on
participation of players, etc. Based on these factors, DG concluded that AICF
enjoys dominant position in the market for conducting and governing domestic
and international chess activities for both men and women and the underlying
economic activities in India.
42 In its order dated 11th December, 2017, the Commission also observed that
AICF enjoys dominant position in both the relevant markets delineated therein,
i.e., 'market for organisation of professional chess tournaments' and 'market
for services of chess players'. It was observed that AICF enjoys dominant
position in both the relevant markets on account of the regulatory powers
enjoyed by it under the pyramid  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 24 of 45 structure
of sports governance. In response, AICF has contended that it is governed by
National Sports Code that has a policy of 'One Sport One Body'. As a result,
AICF enjoys dominant position for controlling and managing the game of chess.
However, its activities cannot be subjected under Section 4 of the Act as it
performs only regulatory functions. On the other hand, Informants agreed with
the findings of the DG and observations of the Commission in its order dated
11th December, 2017.
43 As the factors attributing to dominance of AICF are largely similar in both
the relevant markets, the assessment of dominant position in both the markets
are being commonly dealt with in the succeeding paragraphs.
44 The Commission notes that AICF is the only national level chess federation
in India affiliated to FIDE, which in-turn is the sole and supreme
international body governing the game of chess. Further, by virtue of its NSF
status by MYAS, AICF is vested with the authority to select and field the
Indian chess team for international level tournaments and to conduct national
and international chess events in India, etc. As a result of these, AICF is
the de-facto regulator and an exclusive body responsible for the conduct and
governance of all chess events in India. Further, regulatory powers enjoyed by
AICF include sanctioning/disapproving proposals for organisation of chess
events and subjecting players to disciplinary action in case of participation
in unauthorised chess events.
45 To appraise the extent of authority vested in AICF, it would be relevant to
refer to the Code of Conduct for the Players contained in its Constitution and
Bye-Laws. The relevant extract is reproduced as under:
> "(x) Players desirous of participating in any official FIDE/ Asian/
> Commonwealth Championships should have participated in the last year's
> respective age group, open National Championships. However, the Federation
> shall have the right to accept or reject any such requests.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 25 of 45
> (y) Players shall strictly abide by the Constitution, Rules, Regulations and
> Orders/Instructions of the Federation in force from time to time and also
> abide by the Instructions of Arbiters and AICF office bearers.
(z) No player shall participate in any tournament not authorised by All India
Chess Federation or its affiliate members or District Association and units
affiliated to them. The above violation shall attract disciplinary proceedings
including cash penalties apart from debarring from participating in any
tournaments in future." (emphasis added) 46 The authority of AICF is also
evident from the rules related to Organisation of National
Championship/Tournaments; Conditions for organising chess events:
"(j) Players registered with AICF alone will be eligible to participate in the
Championships."
47 These rules undoubtedly confer AICF with control over professional chess
players in India, who have no bargaining power. As per the rules, the players
desirous of participating in FIDE/Asian/Commonwealth Championships are
mandatorily required to participate in National Championships organised by
AICF. Further, players registered with AICF alone can participate in State,
National and International Championships recognised by FIDE and AICF. By
controlling the participation of professional chess players in chess events
organised by other entities, AICF enjoys control over organisation of chess
events. The Commission notes that sports federation like AICF engaged/
involved in organisation of sports events and economic exploitation of such
events are put to advantage if they are vested with the authority to
approve/sanction organisation of similar events by other. Undoubtedly, such
advantage is a significant source of market power. Further, AICF's regulatory
role empowers it to create entry barriers for other chess events other than
those recognised by it, in form of requiring recognition.
48 The Commission has already noted that subjecting the activities of sports
association to competition law is consistent with its decisional practice as
well as mature competition jurisdictions like European Commission. Regulatory
power of any  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 26 of 45 Sports Federation is
considered to be a significant source of market power/ dominant position. In
MOTOE (supra), the Court (Grand Chamber), on the issue of dominance of sports
association observed that:
> "....a system of undistorted competition, such as that provided for by the
> treaty, can be guaranteed only if equality of opportunity is secured between
> the various economic operators. To entrust a legal person such as ELPA, the
> National Association for Motorcycling in Greece, which itself organises and
> commercially exploits motorcycling events, the task of giving the competent
> administration its consent to applications for authorization to organize
> such events, is tantamount de facto to conferring upon it the power to
> designate the persons authorized to organize those events and to set the
> conditions in which those events are organized, thereby placing that entity
> at an obvious advantage over its competitors. Such a right may therefore
> lead to an undertaking which it possesses it to deny other operators access
> to the relevant market...."
49 The Commission also notes that AICF is the dominant consumer of services
provided by chess players. Attention needs to be drawn to clause Z of the Code
of conduct for Players contained in Constitution and Bye Laws of AICF and
declaration given by players at the time of their registration with AICF for
not participating in any other events organised by any other rival
organisation of Chess. If a registered player participates in any tournament
not authorised by AICF, he/she is subjected to disciplinary proceedings
including cash penalties and debarment from participating in any tournaments
in future. These regulations and undertakings given by players stand testimony
to the monopsony power of AICF vis-a-vis professional chess players.
50 Having due regard to the regulatory powers enjoyed by AICF under the
pyramid structure of sports governance and the predominant buyer of the
services provided by professional chess players, the Commission has no
hesitation to conclude that AICF enjoys dominant position in both the relevant
markets i.e. market for organization of professional chess tournaments/events
in India and market for services of chess players.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 27 of 45
Issue 3: Whether AICF has abused its dominant position in the said relevant
market(s)?
51 Having established the dominance of AICF in both the relevant markets,
Commission would now deal with the alleged abuses.
(i) Restriction on chess players and organisation of chess tournaments 52 The
Commission notes that the impugned restrictions on chess players to
participate in tournaments, such as those organised by CAI, not authorised by
AICF, actions taken thereof are relatable to both the relevant markets.
Accordingly, they are being dealt with together.
53 At the outset, the Commission notes that competition cases relating to
sports associations/federations usually arise due to conflict between their
regulatory functions and economic activities undertaken by them. The
Commission is of the view that system of approval under the pyramid structure
of sports governance is a normal phenomenon of sports administration. However,
rules governing the players and the organisation of sport events/ tournaments
often create a restrictive environment for the economic activities that are
incidental to sport. Unlike other abuse cases, these could be justified if it
is demonstrated that the restraint on competition is a necessary requirement
to serve the development of sport or preserve its integrity. However, if
restrictions impede competition without having any plausible justification,
the same would fall foul of competition law. In Dhanraj Pillay v. Hockey India
(Order dated 31st May, 2013 in Case No. 73 of 2011), the Commission has noted
that "The Commission......is of the opinion that intent/rationale behind
introduction of the guidelines as submitted by FIH relating to sanctioned and
unsanctioned events needs to be appreciated before arriving at any
conclusions. Factors such as ensuring primacy of national representative  Case
No. 79 of 2011 Page 28 of 45 competition, deter free riding on the investments
by national associations, maintaining the calendar of activities in a cohesive
manner not cutting across the interests of participating members, preserving
the integrity of the sport, etc. are inherent to the orderly development of
the sport, which is the prime objective of the sports associations. Moving
further, on the proportionality aspect, the Commission opines that
proportionality of the regulations can only be decided by considering the
manner in which regulations are applied."
54 A similar approach has been the practice of mature competition regimes
also. The White Paper on Sports issued by the European Commission [COM(2007)
391] states that "...in respect of the regulatory aspects of sport, the
assessment whether a certain sporting rule is compatible with EU competition
law can only be made on a case-by-case basis, as recently confirmed by the
European Court of Justice in its Meca-Medina ruling [Case C-519/04P, ECR 2006,
I-6991]. The Court provided a clarification regarding the impact of EU law on
sporting rules. It dismissed the notion of "purely sporting rules" as
irrelevant for the question of the applicability of EU competition rules to
the sport sector...The Court recognised that the specificity of sport has to
be taken into consideration in the sense that restrictive effects on
competition that are inherent in the organisation and proper conduct of
competitive sport are not in breach of EU competition rules, provided that
these effects are proportionate to the legitimate genuine sporting interest
pursued. The necessity of a proportionality test implies the need to take into
account the individual features of each case. It does not allow for the
formulation of general guidelines on the application of competition law to the
sport sector." (emphasis added) 55 Commission notes that DG has relied upon
several evidences to arrive at its finding of abusive conduct on account of
restrictions imposed. These are discussed hereunder:
(a) In the present case, while registering with AICF, chess players are made
to sign a registration form, which amongst other declarations also contain a
declaration to the effect that they will not participate in any unauthorised
tournament/ championship. Relevant portion of the Registration Form reads as
follows:
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 29 of 45
"I also declare that I will not participate in any un-authorised tournament/
championship".
It is noted that the restriction is absolute and does not leave any scope for
players to participate in any tournament not authorised by AICF. Further,
neither the Bye laws nor the constitution of AICF define what is an
unauthorised tournament.
(b) Clause Z of the Code of Conduct for the Players further stipulates that
players participating in unauthorised chess tournaments may be subjected to
disciplinary action including cash penalties apart from debarring them in
participating in any tournaments in future. The text of this provision reads
as follows:
"No player shall participate in any tournament not authorised by All India
Chess Federation or its affiliate members or District Association and units
affiliated to them. The above violation shall attract disciplinary proceedings
including cash penalties apart from debarring from participating in any
tournaments in future."
Thus, the consequences of participating in any unauthorised events are very
harsh and there is no provision of seeking any permission or being heard for
offering an explanation.
The facts on record show that AICF had implemented this provision against
players since very long. In the present case, Informants, in 2010, along with
150 players were initially banned for a period of one (1) year, due to their
participation in a tournament organised by CAI, which was not authorised by
AICF. Further, their ELO ratings, earned by them over a period of time, were
also removed and they were asked to surrender fifty (50) percent of the prize
money won. Informants have stated that the action was taken without serving
any show cause notice on them. Further, as submitted by the informant, the ban
continues even today and pursuant to a Show cause notice issued by AICF in
2015, it was informed that the Rules and Regulations Case No. 79 of 2011 Page
30 of 45 framed by AICF are not just applicable to its members but to every
chess player in the country.
(c) On its website, AICF has also displayed a caution against the tournaments
organised by CAI. The caution notice displayed on the website of AICF reads as
under:
> CAUTION "This is to inform all chess players/ organisers/ officials that any
> chess event organized under the banner of "Chess Association of India" is
> not recognised by All India Chess Federation."
> CAUTION A set of disgruntled elements have announced that they have formed a
> chess association as rivals to All India Chess Federation. In their mails
> the Chess Association of India has announced that, with the permission of
> World Chess Federation Inc (a rival to FIDE) they will organize an open
> tournament at Delhi from 23rd Dec, with a prize fund of Rs. 15 Lacs.
> All India Chess Federation cautions all chess players affiliated to us not
> to participate in these tournaments or any other tournaments to be organized
> by Chess Association of India in future as their events are not organized by
> All India Chess Federation and as such not authorized by AICF. This is to
> further remind all AICF registered players that you have signed a
> declaration in the players' registration form, which we quote for your ready
> reference.
> "I also declare that I will not participate in any unauthorized tournament/
> championship".
> By playing in the tournaments or conducted by Chess Association of India,
> the registered players of AICF will attract disciplinary action and hence
> are cautioned against playing in the tournaments to be organized by the
> rival body. - Published on 09 December, 2009".
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 31 of 45
The aforesaid brings out that AICF used the power it possessed to deny other
organisers like CAI to access the relevant markets. It is pertinent to mention
that AICF has referred to CAI as a rival body.
(d) The investigation has revealed that there were other instances of AICF
restricting players who had participated in events not recognised by AICF,
from participating in other chess events. The relevant extracts of the
Investigation Report are reproduced as under:
(i) E-mail dated 4th April, 2011 of Bangkok Chess Club Bangkok Chess Club
invited Shri Gurpreet Pal Singh, one of the IP(s) in this case vide its letter
31-01-2011 to participate in its 11th Thailand Open 2011. Subsequently,
Bangkok Chess Club vide its e-mail dated 04- 04-2011 wrote to Shri Gurpreet
Pal Singh, that AICF via FIDE's Secretary informed that his membership was not
valid under their federation and hence he should contact AICF urgently. After
intervention by the Bangkok Chess club with FIDE Secretary and correspondence
with above IP(s), he was allowed to participate in the open Group.
(ii) Letter dated 5.01.2011 of AICF In another instance, AICF vide their
letter dated 05-01-2011 informed to the Joint Secretary, Railways Sports
Promotion Board (RSPB) which is one of affiliates of AICF that its four
players, including Shri Gurpreet Pal Singh, played in tournaments which are
not authorized by AICF, despite its web-site communication in this regard.
AICF further informed in the above mention letter that these unauthorized
tournaments are organized by some people of CAI. These players are therefore
not allowed to play my tournament authorized by AICF and its affiliates and
their ELO/ FIDE rating has been removed by the FIDE as per the decision of
Central Counsel of AICF. AICF has also advised RSPB to ensure such players
should not be permitted to participate in any of the tournaments organized by
RSPB as well.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 32 of 45
(iii) Circular dated 24th June 2011 of RSPB RSPB sent a circular dated 24th
June, 2011 to its associations conveying that the information received from
AICF about participation by some of its players in unauthorized tournaments
has been considered by RSPB and its has been decided that Zonal railway and
production units shall not allow their chess players in any such tournament
which is not authorized by AICF. Further if any player participates in such
unauthorized tournaments, the player will not be allowed to participate in All
India Railway Chess Championship and will also not be selected for Indian
Railway Chess Team.
(iv) AICF's letter dated 11th July, 2011 to Secretary, RSPB AICF in its letter
dated 11th July, 2011 addressed to Joint Secretary, RSPB has stated that some
players who participated in such unauthorized tournaments have submitted
apology letters to AICF and subsequently Central Council of AICF has decided
that those such players who have not won any cash prizes in such unauthorized
tournaments may be permitted to play in all tournaments of AICF and its
affiliates after one year of their apology letter if recommended by respective
State Associations. For those players who have won cash prizes, a penalty
equal to won cash prizes is imposed before permitting them to play in all
tournaments of AICF and its affiliates after one year of their apology letter.
AICF has further conveyed that if such players repeat the mistake after giving
apology letter, a life ban will be imposed upon them.
The Commission notes that AICF wrote letters to Bangkok Chess Club and
Railways Sports Promotion Board informing CAI's initiatives to be unauthorised
and advised that players associated with it should not be allowed to
participate in chess tournaments/events. Pursuant to these communications RSPB
also issued a circular inter alia conveying its decision that any player who
participates in any chess tournament which is not recognised by AICF, will not
be allowed to participate in All India Railway Chess Championships and will
also not be selected for Indian Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 33 of 45 Railways
Chess Team. The aforesaid brings out the great length to which AICF went
against the rival organisation and participating players to oust them from the
relevant markets.
56 The contents of the rules, registration form, letters/circulars and
cautions notices, discussed above, thus confirm the allegations levelled by
the informants. These had the effect of restricting the movement of
professional players and deter them from participating in any event not
authorised by AICF. Further, in the absence of participation by chess players
it would not be feasible for any entity to organise any chess tournament
thereby restricting competition in the market of organisation of professional
chess tournaments. The issue thus left before the Commission is whether the
aforesaid conduct and practices followed by AICF are justified. AICF has
sought to justify the impugned restrictions by stating that it is the
regulator of the game of chess and the restrictions imposed are required to
instil discipline amongst the players. This authority is said to be derived
from the Constitution and bye laws of AICF, FIDE Code of Ethics and National
Sports Code. It argued that as such, the authority to impose punishment is
inherent to the functions of a sports federation to maintain discipline,
promote fair play and secure interest of players. Hence, it urged that the
action taken against the Informants may only be regarded as regulation and
cannot be viewed as a restraint on competition. It also contended that any
player aggrieved by the sanction(s) imposed by AICF can file an appeal in
terms of rules/regulations of AICF. There is no restriction on organisation of
any chess tournament but if an organiser intends to update the outcomes in ELO
rankings of the players, then the tournament has to be recognised by AICF.
Events recognised by AICF comply with FIDE Regulations and thus, the outcomes
can be merged with ELO ratings of the participating players. With respect to
the caution notice issued against CAI, it has been claimed that the same is
justified as it was claiming to be a National Federation and illegally using
the word "India" to deceive the general public. It has also referred to the
order of the Madras High Court preventing Chess Association of India from
using the word "India". The action taken was thus said to be Regulatory in
nature.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 34 of 45
57 On the other hand, the Informants have agreed with the findings of DG and
Commission's observations in its order dated 11th December, 2018 on this
aspect. The Informants have highlighted that declaration requiring the players
not to participate in unauthorised tournaments which is contained in the
registration form was introduced in the year 2011, with the amendment in
byelaws. However, AICF has been enforcing this undertaking even prior to
amendment of bye laws. According to them such a clause is not in consonance
with the spirit of free and fair competition. Such undertakings are not a part
of the player's registration forms by other NSFs in games such as Kabbaddi,
Badminton, Boxing and many more. The Informants have contended that AICF, by
imposing restrictions has spoiled career of more than 2500 chess players in
India. AICF has taken punitive action of removal of International ratings and
thus, denied them from participation in national and international events.
Further, their ELO ratings were also removed and they were asked to surrender
fifty (50) percent of the prize money won. Informants have stated that the
action was taken by AICF based on a caution notice issued on its website
without serving any show cause notice on them. Further, as submitted by the
Informant no. 3 , the ban continues and pursuant to a Show cause notice issued
by AICF in 2015, it was informed that the Rules and Regulations framed by AICF
are not just applicable to its members but to every chess player in the
country. Informant has further stated that AICF offered to register him
provided apology for playing in unauthorised tournaments was submitted and
cases against AICF are withdrawn.
58 The Commission notes that due to the impugned restrictions, chess players
cannot participate in tournaments not recognised by AICF. As discussed earlier
due to these restrictions, it is not feasible for any entity to organise a
chess tournament, without the authorisation of AICF. The evidences available
on record clearly establish that AICF created hurdles for CAI for organising
chess tournaments as well as prevented chess players, who participated in
these, from playing in other chess tournaments. AICF has however, sought to
justify its action by stating that CAI was trying to mislead the  Case No. 79
of 2011 Page 35 of 45 people by using the word India and it wanted to instill
discipline amongst professional chess players. In this context, Commission
notes as also pointed out by the DG, that neither the byelaws nor the
constitution of AICF defines what unauthorised tournament is. The Commission
also finds it pertinent to mention that AICF has not shown any document which
lays down the parameters governing authorisation/sanctioning of chess
tournaments that is followed by AICF. In the absence of such guidelines, AICF
can exercise absolute discretion in treating any tournament as unauthorised.
Further, Commission notes that the restriction imposed on players by way of
declaration is absolute and does not leave any scope for players to
participate in any tournament not authorised by AICF. As brought out earlier,
consequences of participating in any unauthorised events are very stringent
and unilateral without offering an opportunity of being heard. In the present
case, the Informants were internationally rated chess players. The purported
event took place in 2010, however, the ban has continued till date. Removal of
ELO ratings which were earned by these players over the years by participating
in authorised events is also not found to be justified. The restrictions have
deprived informants from playing chess over several years causing irreparable
loss given that in sports, players have short professional career. While
participation in events not recognised by AICF may not be considered for ELO
ratings, complete prohibition from being part of such events denies them
professional opportunities for career growth. Usually the calendar for
National and International events is known well in advance. Hence, it is not
understandable why there should be complete restriction in participating in
events that are not clashing with major National and International events or
conflict with the training schedule. Normally, participating in other chess
tournaments may not entail risks in terms of safety and health of the players,
which could be true for other sports, as it does not involve rigorous physical
activity. Thus, AICF has not been able to demonstrate how such a blanket ban
is necessary to preserve the integrity of sport and towards promoting the
game.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 36 of 45
59 Being the de-facto regulator of the game of chess, it is understandable
that AICF would have to put in place certain restrictions or some regulatory
mechanism that are indispensable to preserve the interest of the game. Such
stipulations however have to be proportionate and inherent to preserving the
integrity of the sport. Due regard needs to be given to the specificity of the
sport while stipulating any conditions. It is important that restrictions
imposed by sports federations serve the interest of the sport and at the same
time maintain a fine balance between the extent of regulation and its
implication on the competition in the economic activities incidental to the
sport. Some of the relevant factors to be considered in this regard are nature
of sport, limited professional life and level of opportunities for
professional players.
60 The Commission also notes that chess unlike other sports does not involve
physical stress and is not as popular as cricket etc. in India. Thus the
restrictions in the Registration Form, Clause Z of Code of Conduct of the
Players and actions such as those taken against the Informants have put the
professional chess players and potential organisers at a disproportional
disadvantage and are thus found to be unjustified and unfair. Further, the
impugned declaration/rules and restrictions flowing therefrom have the object
as well as the effect of restricting free movement of chess players and
thereby, foreclosing entry of potential organisers by depriving them of the
services provided by professional chess players. The Commission observes that
entry of rival chess organisations/ federations and participation of chess
players in tournaments organised by them cannot be a sufficient reason to
restrain competition. In view of the foregoing, the Commission concludes that
AICF indulged in practices that result in denial of market access to
organisers of chess events/ tournaments.
61 At this juncture it is also pertinent to note that an entity which
commercially exploits a game and is also vested with the authority to regulate
the game, by way of imposing rules and regulations including sanctioning of
third party chess events, has incentives to foreclose competition and protect
its commercial interest in organizing sports events  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page
37 of 45 and competitions. There is thus an inherent conflict of interest due
to dual capacity of Regulator and organiser.
62 Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the impugned restrictions are in
contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(i) and Section 4(2)(c) of
the Act.
(ii) Sharing of non-refundable EMD and entry fee 63 In relation to sharing of
non-refundable EMD and entry fee, investigation revealed the practice of
collecting EMD out of grants provided to AICF. Investigation also brought out
that AICF has been sharing the entry fee in respect of all types of entries
(normal / seeded entry / special or donor) as a pre-condition in the process
of awarding the task of organising the chess championships to its affiliates.
The use of this amount by the AICF deprives the organisers to utilise this
amount for meeting the expenses of tournaments and promoting the welfare of
the game of chess. This conduct of AICF was found to be in contravention of
Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
64 In response, AICF contended that the money collected from Government (MYAS)
directly goes to State Associations. Further, the money given by Government is
spent on boarding and lodging for players and coaches. Money received as entry
fees and EMD is used for various expenses like prize money and other
promotional events for which grants are not given by the Government.
Therefore, there is no question of misutilisation of funds.
65 In this regard, the Commission notes that though the sharing of non-
refundable EMD and entry fee reduces the money available with the organizers,
it may not be regarded as anti-competitive. Considering the low popularity of
the game of chess in India, AICF does not earn huge amounts of money unlike
Board of Control for Cricket in India. Further, as submitted by AICF, such
grants from MYAS are available only for three (3) National Championships and
the Opposite Party organizes more than sixteen  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 38 of
45 (16) National Championships. The Commission finds merit in the submissions
of AICF that the money received from the MYAS, entry fees and in form of EMD
from organizer are used for various expenses like prize money, cash award for
players and various other promotional activities, boarding and lodging for
players, coaches, for medals etc. Thus, the Commission is of the view that the
sharing of non-refundable EMD and entry fee is not unfair and thus, not in
contravention of the provisions of the Act.
(iii) Special/Donor entries and non-implementation of provisions of LTDP
regarding merit in the process of selection of probables in National
Championships, use of discretion by Secretary in nominating players and award
of certificates 66 The investigation revealed that AICF did not implement
provisions regarding selection of probables as LTDP. Contrary to the
stipulations for LTDP, AICF has been allowing entries, other than on merit,
under the type special/donor entries and collecting higher amount of fees from
such special entrants. The players of special/donor entries do not have any
meritorious background in various chess events conducted under the umbrella of
tournaments organised by AICF. Such practice of allowing entry to a specific
privileged class who are able to pay higher entry fee was found to be unfair
and discriminatory and is contrary to the provisions of the LTDP. It was also
revealed during the investigation that Secretary, AICF has nominated players
for various national chess tournaments without any justification. Such
practice of AICF granting undue privilege to select players without any
justification was found to be in contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the
Act in the relevant market . Investigation has also observed that AICF has
delegated the powers of issuing certificates to organizers as per their
format. AICF neither has any control over maintaining the uniformity in the
contents and proper serial number/certificate numbers nor has any record of
the certificates issued or their distribution. In view of these, it was
concluded by the DG that AICF's conduct is in contravention of Section
4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 39 of 45
67 AICF, on the other hand, has submitted that AICF has not violated LTDP by
permitting special/wild card entries. Special/Wild card/Donor entries help to
discover hidden talents and the rationale for charging a higher fee charged
for such entries is to restrict the number of entries. It has been further
contended that allowing such donor entries is an international practice and
cannot be regarded as unfair. Selection of players is AICF's sole discretion
and is purely based on performance and merit. AICF has stated that award of
certificates has been done properly.
68 In this connection, the Commission finds merit in the submissions of AICF
that such entries may help in discovering hidden talent. Such practices are
internationally accepted and Commission has no reason, whatsoever, to consider
the practices of allowing donor entries/special entries/wild card entries as
abusive under Section 4 of the Act.
69 With regard to issuance of the certificates, the Commission is of the view
that the irregularities pointed out do not have any exclusionary or
exploitative effect either on players or competition. Thus, such conduct does
not merit examination under the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
Issue 4: Whether the declaration, which the players are made to sign by
undertaking not to play any open tournament is anti-competitive agreement as
per Section 3(3) of the Act and it causes appreciable adverse effect on
competition as per section 3(4) of the Act read with Section 3(1) of the Act?
70 In relation to contravention of the Section 3(3), it has been concluded by
the DG that practices and various clauses in the Constitution and Bye Laws of
AICF have caused appreciable adverse effect on competition in the country
because they have harmed competition, in terms of various factors enumerated
under Section 19(3) of the Act, such as creation of entry barriers, driving
existing competitors out of the market and  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 40 of 45
foreclosure of competition. These have the effect of limiting and/or
controlling supply, market, technical development and provisions of services,
in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3)(b) of the Act. As regards
violation of Section 3(4), DG found that vertical relationship does not exist
between AICF and its players and thus, would not attract the provisions of
Section 3(4) of the Act.
71 The Commission is of the view that the investigation has not revealed any
agreement which amount to a horizontal agreement and as such Commission finds
no need to scrutinise the case from the perspective of Section 3(3)(b) of the
Act.
72 As contained in the order dated 11th December, 2018, the Commission further
notes that, unlike the finding of DG that chess players and AICF do not
exhibit vertical relationship, there exists vertical relationship between
them. In the present case, AICF is the consumer of services of chess players
for the organisation of any chess event. This relationship between AICF and
the players tantamount to a vertical relationship as AICF and the chess
players are at different stages of the supply chain.
73 It is further noted that the undertaking prescribed by AICF regarding non-
participation of its players in events not authorised by it, amounts to
restraints that are in the nature of exclusive distribution and refusal to
deal as defined in Section 3(4)(c) and 3(4) (d) of the Act. Also, non-
compliance of such undertaking will result in banning of the player and
removal of their ELO rating, as has been done in the case of the Informants.
These consequences create entry barriers, foreclose competition and restrict
opportunities available to chess players. The said restrictions are likely to
have appreciable adverse effect on competition in terms of factors contained
in Section 19 (3) of the Act. The Commission is thus, of the view that AICF
has contravened Sections 3(4)(c) and 3(4)(d) of the Act read with Section 3(1)
of the Act.
ORDER  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 41 of 45 74 Having found the conduct of AICF
to be in contravention of Section 4, the Commission orders the following
remedies, which are necessary, sufficient and proportionate to address the
harm to competition flowing from the impugned abuses:
(a) AICF shall cease and desist from indulging into the aforesaid conduct,
which is found to be in contravention of the provisions of Sections 4(2)(b)(i)
and 4(2)(c) read with Section 4(1) of the Act;
(b) AICF shall lay down the process and parameters governing authorisation/
sanctioning of chess tournaments. In doing so, AICF will ensure that they are
necessary to serve the interest of the sport and shall be applied in a fair,
transparent and equitable manner. Besides, AICF shall take all possible
measure(s) to ensure that competition is not impeded while preserving the
objective of development of chess in the country; and
(c) AICF shall establish prejudice caused by a chess player before taking any
disciplinary action against him. Needless to say, the disciplinary actions
taken shall be proportional, fair and transparent. The disciplinary actions
against the Informant and other similar players shall be reviewed by AICF on
these lines;
(d) AICF shall file a report to the Commission on the compliance of the
aforesaid directions from (a) to (c) within a period of 60 days from the
receipt of this order.
75 The Commission has also considered the issue of imposition of monetary
penalty on AICF and has given its thoughtful consideration thereon.
76 Under the provisions contained in Section 27(b) of the Act, the Commission
may impose such penalty upon the contravening parties, as it may deem fit
which shall be  Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 42 of 45 not more than ten (10) per
cent of the average of the turnover for the last three (3) preceeding
financial years, upon each of such person or enterprises which are parties to
such agreement or abuse.
77 In this connection, it would also be apposite to refer to the decision of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission
of India and Anr. [common judgment dated 8th May, 2017 in CA No. 53-55, 2874
and 2922 of 2014] , holding that 'turnover' to be taken for imposition of
penalty should be the relevant turnover from the product in question and not
the total turnover of the enterprise. The Hon'ble Court has observed as under:
> "92. When the agreement leading to contravention of Section 3 involves one
> product, there seems to be no justification for including other products of
> an enterprise for the purpose of imposing penalty. This is also clear from
> the opening words of Section 27 read with Section 3 which relate to one or
> more specified products. It also defies common sense that though penalty
> would be imposed in respect of the infringing product, the 'maximum penalty'
> imposed in all cases be prescribed on the basis of 'all the products' and
> the 'total turnover' of the enterprise. It would be more so when total
> turnover of an enterprise may involve activities besides production and sale
> of products, like rendering of services etc. It, therefore, leads to the
> conclusion that the turnover has to be of the infringing products and when
> that is the proper yardstick, it brings home the concept of 'relevant
> turnover'.
78 Thus, the starting point of determination of appropriate penalty should be
to determine the relevant turnover and then, to calculate the appropriate
percentage of penalty based on facts and circumstances of the case. The
Commission has held that the contravening anti-competitive conduct of AICF
amounts to denial of market access in the market for organisation of
professional chess tournaments and imposition of unfair conditions as a
consumer in the market for services of chess players. The relevant turnover
for this contravention would be the revenue of AICF from the market for
organisation of professional chess tournaments.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 43 of 45
79 Accordingly, Income reported under the sub- head "Tournament and Fees
Receipts", in the audited financial statements of the AICF, available on its
own website http://aicf.in/ has been taken as relevant turnover. Further, the
Commission notes that the conduct has continued till date and thus, it can
impose penalty based on financials of AICF during the preceding three (3)
years. Accordingly, the average of relevant turnover during the financial
years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, is as under:
Table 1: Revenue of AICF from Tournament and Fees Receipts for FY 2014-
15, FY 2015-16 and FY 2016-17 (Amount in INR ) Name of Turnover Turnover
Turnover Average turnover OP for FY for FY for FY for three years 2014-15
2015-16 2016-17 AICF 3,06,98,560 3,80,69,222 3,50,84,791 3,46,17,524 80 Having
decided what constitutes relevant turnover, the Commission now proceeds to
calculate the appropriate percentage of penalty. The twin objectives behind
imposition of penalty are: (a) to reflect the seriousness of the
contravention; and (b) to ensure that the threat of penalties will deter the
infringing undertakings. Therefore, the quantum of penalty imposed must be
proportional to the gravity of the contravention and must be determined after
having due regard to the mitigating and aggravating circumstances of the case.
81 The Commission notes that denial of market access is one of the severe
forms of abuse of dominant position. Although penalty up to ten (10) percent
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    New Delhi                                                               (Justice G.P. Mittal)
                                                                                        Member
    Dated: 12/07/2018
             Case No. 79 of 2011                                                          Page 45 of 45
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
    Through its Secretary
    Hall No.82, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium
    Chennai, Tamil Nadu
       Case No. 79 of 2011                                         Page 1 of 45
          CORAM
         Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
         Chairperson
         Mr. Sudhir Mital
         Member
         Mr. Augustine Peter
         Member
         Mr. U. C. Nahta
         Member
         Mr. Justice G.P. Mittal
         Member
         Appearances during the final hearing held on 21st February, 2018
          For the Informant            : Ms. Shivani Lakhanpal, Advocate
                                         Informant-in-person
          For the Opposite Party       : Mr. J. Sivanandaraaj, Advocate
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
    Through its Secretary
    Hall No.82, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium
    Chennai, Tamil Nadu
       Case No. 79 of 2011                                         Page 1 of 45
          CORAM
         Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
         Chairperson
         Mr. Sudhir Mital
         Member
         Mr. Augustine Peter
         Member
         Mr. U. C. Nahta
         Member
         Mr. Justice G.P. Mittal
         Member
         Appearances during the final hearing held on 21st February, 2018
          For the Informant            : Ms. Shivani Lakhanpal, Advocate
                                         Informant-in-person
          For the Opposite Party       : Mr. J. Sivanandaraaj, Advocate
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
    Through its Secretary
    Hall No.82, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium
    Chennai, Tamil Nadu
       Case No. 79 of 2011                                         Page 1 of 45
          CORAM
         Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
         Chairperson
         Mr. Sudhir Mital
         Member
         Mr. Augustine Peter
         Member
         Mr. U. C. Nahta
         Member
         Mr. Justice G.P. Mittal
         Member
         Appearances during the final hearing held on 21st February, 2018
          For the Informant            : Ms. Shivani Lakhanpal, Advocate
                                         Informant-in-person
          For the Opposite Party       : Mr. J. Sivanandaraaj, Advocate
                                         Ms. Shalini Kaul, Advocate
                                         Ms. Ridhima Sharma, Advocate
                       Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
    A. Background
1\. The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
Competition Act, 2002 (the 'Act') by Mr. Hemant Sharma ('Informant No.1'), Mr.
Devendra Bajpai ('Informant No.2'), Mr. Gurpreet Pal Singh ('Informant No.3')
and Mr. Karun Duggal ('Informant No.4') (All collectively referred to as the
'Informants') against All India Chess Federation (the 'OP'/'AICF'), alleging,
inter-alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 2 of 45
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
    All India Chess Federation (AICF)                     Opposite Party
    Through its Secretary
    Hall No.82, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium
    Chennai, Tamil Nadu
       Case No. 79 of 2011                                         Page 1 of 45
          CORAM
         Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
         Chairperson
         Mr. Sudhir Mital
         Member
         Mr. Augustine Peter
         Member
         Mr. U. C. Nahta
         Member
         Mr. Justice G.P. Mittal
         Member
         Appearances during the final hearing held on 21st February, 2018
          For the Informant            : Ms. Shivani Lakhanpal, Advocate
                                         Informant-in-person
          For the Opposite Party       : Mr. J. Sivanandaraaj, Advocate
                                         Ms. Shalini Kaul, Advocate
                                         Ms. Ridhima Sharma, Advocate
                       Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
    A. Background
1\. The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
Competition Act, 2002 (the 'Act') by Mr. Hemant Sharma ('Informant No.1'), Mr.
Devendra Bajpai ('Informant No.2'), Mr. Gurpreet Pal Singh ('Informant No.3')
and Mr. Karun Duggal ('Informant No.4') (All collectively referred to as the
'Informants') against All India Chess Federation (the 'OP'/'AICF'), alleging,
inter-alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 2 of 45
of the relevant turnover of AICF can be imposed, the Commission finds it
appropriate to impose penalty at the rate of two (2) percent of the average
relevant turnover for the financial years 2014- 15, 2015-16 and 2016-17.
Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of INR 6,92,350/- only (Rupees
six lakhs ninety two thousand three hundred and fifty only) upon AICF for
infringing the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
Case No. 79 of 2011 Page 44 of 45
82 The Commission directs AICF to deposit the aforesaid penalty amount within
60 days of the receipt of this order and file a report to the Commission on
compliance of the aforesaid directions.
83 The Secretary is directed to forward copies of this order to all concerned.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U.C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
