Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Bangalore
M/S Informatica Business ... vs Deputy Commissioner Of Income ... on 25 April,
2019
                   IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                              "B" BENCH : BANGALORE
     BEFORE SHRI ARUN KUMAR GARODIA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND
                    SHRI LALIET KUMAR, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                               IT(TP)A No.1285/Bang/2014
                                Assessment Year : 2009-10
                                                    M/s. Informatica
                                                    Business Pvt. Ltd.,
               The Deputy
                                                    No. 66/1, Bagmane
               Commissioner of Income
                                                    Commerz 02,
               Tax,                           vs.
                                                    Bagmane Tech Park,
               Circle 11 (4),
                                                    CV Raman Nagar,
               Bangalore.
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
               Bangalore.
                                                    Bangalore - 560 093.
                                                    PAN: AABCI0762M
                      APPELLANT                         RESPONDENT
                                           &
                             IT (TP) A No. 1294/Bang/2014
                              Assessment Year: 2009-10
                                     (By Assessee)
                                  :
                                 Shri Pravin Kishore Prasad and
             Assessee by
                                 Shri Umashankar Gautam, Advocates
             Revenue by       : Smt. Kabila .H, JCIT (DR)
             Date of hearing           :  26.03.2019
             Date of Pronouncement     :  25.04.2019
                                         ORDER
Per Shri A.K. Garodia, Accountant Member These are cross appeals filed by the
assessee and revenue and these are directed against the order of ld. CIT
(A)-IV, Bangalore dated 19.08.2014 for Assessment Year 2009-10.
2\. The grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal as per revised and
concise grounds of appeal are as under.
> "1. That the order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax
> (Appeals) - IV, Bangalore ('CIT(A)'), to the extent prejudicial to the
> Appellant, is bad in law and liable to be quashed. [corresponding to ground
> 1]
> 2\. That the learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the rejection of IT(TP)A
> Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 2 of 40 Transfer Pricing ('TP')
> documentation by the Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax - V [Learned Transfer
> Pricing Officer ('TPO')]/ Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, Circle 11(4)
> (Learned Assessing Officer ('AO')] an in making an adjustment to the
> transfer price of the Appellant in respect of its software development
> services and customer support services provided to its associated
> enterprises holding that the international transactions do not satisfy the
> arm's length principle envisaged under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the
> 'Act').[corresponding to ground 2]
3\. That the Learned CIT(A)erred in upholding the Learned TPO approach of
rejecting the Transfer Pricing ("TP") documentation maintained by the
Appellant. [corresponding to ground 3]
4\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding inclusion of companies [(a)
KALS Information Systems Limited, (b) Bodhtree Consulting Limited, (c) Tata
Elxsi Limited, (d) Sasken Communication Technologies Limited, (e) Persistent
systems Limited, (f) Larsen & Toubro Infotech Limited in Software Development
services segment) and (a) Infosys BPO Limited, (b) Accentia Technologies
Limited, (c) Cosmic Global Limited, (d) Eclerx Services Limited in Customer
Support services Segment)] in the comparability analysis, which are different
from Appellant in functions, assets and risk profile and rejection of the
companies that are similar to the Appellant, while performing comparability
analysis by the Learned TPO and in doing so also erred in ignoring the low
risk nature of the software development services and customer support services
provided by the Appellant and not providing adjustment on account of risk
differential with entrepreneurial comparables, as required while determining
the arm's length price of the international transactions oftheAppellant.
[corresponding to ground 4]
5\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
software development services segment and in doing so grossly erred in
upholding the Learned TPO's approach of rejecting certain comparable companies
identified by the Appellant by applying employee cost greater than 25% of
total revenue as a comparability criterion.[corresponding to ground 5(a)]
6\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
software development services segment and in doing so grossly erred in
upholding the Learned TPO's approach of rejecting certain comparable companies
identified by the Appellant by applying export earnings greater than 75% of
sales as a comparability criterion ..[corresponding to ground 5(b)]
7\. That the Learned CIT (A) erred in upholding application of IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 3 of 40 different quantitative and qualitative
filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the software development services
segment and in doing so grossly erred in upholding the Learned TPO's approach
of rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the Appellant for
having different accounting year (i.e. companies having accounting year other
than March31 or companies whose financial statements were for a period other
than 12 months). [corresponding to ground 5(c)]
8\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
software development services segment and in doing so grossly erred in
upholding the Learned TPO's approach of applying the turnover < 1 crore for
rejection of comparable companies. [corresponding to ground 5(d)]
9\. That the Learned CIT (A) erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
customer support services segment and in doing so grossly erred in upholding
the Learned TPO's approach of rejecting certain comparable companies
identified by the Appellant for having different accounting year (i.e.
companies having accounting year other than March31orcompanies whose financial
statements were for a period other than 12 months) .. [corresponding to ground
6(a)]
10\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
customer support services segment and in doing so grossly erred in Upholding
the Learned TPO:s approach of applying the turnover < 1crore for rejection of
comparable companies. [corresponding to ground 6(b)]
11\. That the Learned CIT(A)erred in upholding application of different
quantitative and qualitative filters byte Learned TPO in respect of the
customer support services segment and in doing so grossly erred in upholding
the Learned TPO's approach of rejecting certain comparable companies
identified by the Appellant for having diminishing revenues over a period of
time, while at the same time rejecting the Appellant's approach of using
multiple year data for selecting comparable companies. [corresponding to
ground 7]
12\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding rejection of the quantitative
and qualitative filters applied byte Appellant and in doing so grossly erred
in Rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the Appellant by
applying export earnings greater than 25% of sales as a comparability
criterion. .[corresponding to ground 8(a)]
13\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding rejection of the quantitative
and qualitative filters applied byte Appellant and in doing so grossly erred
in Accepting certain comparable companies rejected IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 4 of 40 by the Appellant by applying exceptional year(s)
of operations as a comparability criterion .. [corresponding to ground 8(b)]
14\. That the learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the learned TPO's approach of
not applying multiple year /prior year data for comparable companies while
determining the arm's length price and in doing so also erred in using the
data as at the time of assessment proceedings, instead of that available
during FY2008-09, wherein the Appellant was required to prepare and maintain
the TP documentation .. [corresponding to ground 9]
15\. That the learned CIT(A) erred in erred in upholding the rejection of2
comparable companies in respect of the software development services segment,
Thinksoft Global Services Limited and F C S Software Solutions Limited, by the
learned TPO by stating that the working capital adjustment resulted in
reduction of profit margins by more than 4%.. [corresponding to ground10]
16\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the action of the Learned AO/
Learned TPO in limiting the working capital adjustment while determining the
arm's length price .. [corresponding to ground 11]
17\. That the Learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the action of the Learned TPO
in inclusion of companies with huge turnover as comparable to the Appellant. .
[corresponding to ground12]
18\. That the Appellant prays to allow the benefit of range of+/-5% as
provided in proviso to Section92C(2) of the Act, while determining the arm's
length price .. [corresponding to ground 13]
19\. That the Appellant prays to compute the arm's length price by considering
correct operating margins of someof the comparable companies. [corresponding
to ground 14]
20\. The Learned AO and consequently the Learned CIT(A) has erred in law by
not considering the export receipts for the period January to March 2009 as
part of the export turnover while computing deduction under Section 10A of the
Act on the pretext that the Appellant was unable to produce the
correspondingsoftex forms. [corresponding to ground 15]
21\. The Learned AO and consequently the Learned CIT(A) has erred in facts, by
not considering the softexform for March 2009 which was submitted by the
Appellant during the assessment proceedings.[corresponding to ground 16] That
the Appellant craves leave to add to and / or alter, amend, rescind or modify
the grounds taken hereinabove before or at the time IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 5 of 40 of hearing of this appeal."
3\. Similarly, the grounds raised by the revenue in its appeal are as under.
> "1. The order of the CIT (A) is opposed to law and the facts and
> circumstances of the case.
> 2\. The CIT(A) erred in holding that the 10 comparables examined by him
> shall form the final comparables on which the ALP adjustment needs to be
> carried out by the TPO without examining the inclusion / exclusion of
> M/s.InfosysLtd., which was included in the final set of comparables of the
> TPO.
> 3\. The CIT (A) erred in holding that foreign exchange loss / gain is
> operating in nature without appreciating that such loss / gain though
> attributable to the operating activity is not derived from the operating
> activity and without ascertaining the nexus of the forex gain / loss with
> the business activity of the assessee in both the software development and
> ITES sectors.
> 4\. The CIT (A) erred in concluding in both the software development and
> ITESsectors that forex gain / loss are to be treated as operating in nature
> without appreciating that though they may be incidental to the operating
> activity, they cannot be deemed as operating in nature since, they are not
> critical to operational activities of the business conducted by theassessee.
> 5\. The CIT (A) erred in directing the TPO to decide the case of the
> assessee in both the software development and ITES sectors by applying the
> principles emerging from the orders of the Delhi Bench of the Hon'ble
> Tribunal in Haworth (India) Pvt. Ltd. v Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax 11
> ITR(Trib) 757 and the Bangalore Bench of the Hon'ble Tribunal in Trilogy
> E-Business Software v Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax 23 ITR(Trib)
> 464without appreciating that in transfer pricing every case is unique and
> requires to be decided independently and that the directions issued are,
> beyond the mandate of the provisions of Section 251(1)(a) of the I.T. Act
> which does not empower the CIT(A) to set aside the issue.
> 6\. The learned CIT(A) erred in law as well as facts in directing the TPO to
> exclude the comparables having export sales less than 75% of the operating
> revenue for ITES segment without appreciating that the assessee did not
> object to the applicability of export earning filter at 25% in the ITES
> sector which was put across to the assessee in the show cause notice.
> 7\. The CIT(A) erred in not appreciating the fact that if any filter or
> criteria applied by the assessee is accepted or if any filter or criteria
> applied by theTPO is relaxed, the entire accept / reject matrix changes
> IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 6 of 40 resulting in a new set of
> comparables including those comparables which are neither taken byte
> assessee or the TPO and which do not find a place in the order under Section
> 92CA.
> 8\. The CIT(A) erred in directing the AO to follow the ratio laid down by
> theHon'ble Court in the case of Tata Elxsi Limited 349 ITR 98 and exclude
> the telecommunication charges / freight charges incurred in foreign currency
> from the total turnover also while computing the deduction u/s 10A of
> theI.T. Act as the decision of the High Court is binding, without
> appreciating thefact that there is no provision in Section 10A that such
> expenses should bereduced from the total turnover also, as clause (iv) of
> the explanation toSection10A provides that such expenses are to be reduced
> only from theexport turnover.
> 9\. The CIT(A) erred in not appreciating the fact that the jurisdictional
> High Court's decision in the case of Tata Elxsi Limited 349 ITR 98 has not
> been accepted by the department and an appeal has been filed before the
> Hon'bleSupreme Court.
> 10\. For these and such other grounds that may be urged at the time of
> hearing, it is humbly prayed that the order of the CIT(A) be reversed and
> that of the Assessing Officer be restored.
> 11\. The appellate craves to ad, to alter, to amend or delete any of the
> grounds that may be urged at the time of hearing of the appeal."
4\. At the very outset, it was submitted by ld. AR of assessee that out of
various grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal, the assessee is pressing
only ground nos. 4, 15, 20 and 21 and the remaining grounds are not pressed
and out of the ground no. 4 also, the assessee is not pressing regarding
exclusion of one comparable company i.e. KALS Information Systems Limited.
Accordingly these grounds i.e. 1,2,3, part of Ground No. 4,5 to 14 & 16 to 19
are rejected as not pressed. Thereafter he submitted that as per ground no. 4
of the assessee's appeal, the assessee is making request for exclusion of five
comparables i.e.
i) Bodhtree Consulting Limited
ii) Tata Elxsi Limited
iii) Sasken Communication Technologies Limited
iv) Persistent Systems Limited
v) Larsen & Toubro Infotech Limited in Software Development services segment
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 7 of 40
5\. Regarding the second segment i.e. ITES segment, the assessee is requesting
for exclusion of four comparables i.e.
i) Infosys BPO Limited
ii) Accentia Technologies Limited
iii) Cosmic Global Limited
iv) Eclerx Services Limited
6\. He also submitted that in the appeal of the revenue, the revenue is
aggrieved regarding exclusion of M/s. Infosys Ltd. as per ground no. 2 of the
appeal filed by the revenue. He submitted that the grievance of the revenue is
this that CIT(A) has excluded Infosys Ltd. without any discussion. He
submitted that even if while deciding the appeal of the revenue, it is held
that Infosys Ltd. is not validly excluded by CIT(A) because of this reason
that there is no discussion in the order of CIT(A) on this issue, it is the
request of the assessee that the exclusion of Infosys Ltd. should be upheld by
way of a speaking and reasoned order. He submitted that therefore, the
assessee's request is for exclusion of six comparables in software development
segment and regarding the basis of assessee's request for exclusion of these
comparables, he submitted that ld. AR of assessee has filed a chart in this
regard and reliance is placed on the Tribunal order rendered in the case of
M/s. Trianz Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in IT (TP)A No. 199/Bang/2014 dated
25.01.2019, copy available on pages 3280 to 3298 in case law compendium. It
was pointed out that for the exclusion of these six comparables in software
development segment, it was held that all these six comparables should be
excluded and while holding so, the Tribunal has followed another Tribunal
order rendered in the case of Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT in ITA No.
464/Hyd/2014 dated 30.01.2015 and relevant Para of that Tribunal order has
been reproduced by the Tribunal. In reply, the ld. DR of revenue supported the
orders of authorities below. She also submitted that ld. CIT(A) has excluded
Infosys Ltd. without any discussion and hence, it should be held that
exclusion of Infosys Ltd. is not justified. She also drawn our attention to
page no. 10 of the TPO's order and pointed out that a specific finding has
been given by the TPO that during 1997 to 2010, the turnover of Infosys Ltd.
has increased 150 times.
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 8 of 40 But the operating margin was
in the range of 35% to 40%. On this basis, the TPO has drawn to this
conclusion that turnover has no linkage with the margins. She submitted that
therefore, Infosys Ltd. should not be excluded from the list of comparables.
7\. We have considered the rival submissions. First of all, we decide
regarding this aspect as to whether the exclusion of Infosys Ltd. by CIT(A) is
proper or not because as per ground no. 2 of revenue's appeal, this is the
grievance of the revenue that ld. CIT(A) has excluded M/s. Infosys Ltd.
without any discussion. We find that it is noted by CIT (A) that in Para 8.2
on page no. 4 of his order that TPO selected 11 comparables including Infosys
Ltd. But while deciding the issue about exclusion of some comparables as per
Para 12.2.5 of his order, the ld. CIT (A) has examined only 10 comparables
excluding Infosys Ltd. and thereafter, in Para 12.2.6 of his order, it is held
that only 10 comparables excluding Infosys Ltd. shall form the final
comparables of which the ALP adjustment needs to be carried out by the TPO.
Hence, it is seen that Infosys Ltd. stood excluded without any discussion and
such exclusion cannot be approved. Hence, we hold that exclusion of Infosys
Ltd. by CIT (A) is not proper. But in the facts of present case, instead of
restoring back to the file of CIT(A) for deciding about exclusion of Infosys
Ltd. by way of a speaking and reasoned order, we feel it proper to decide
about the exclusion of Infosys Ltd. at our level because we find that the
turnover of Infosys Ltd. is Rs. 20,264 Crores and the turnover of assessee
company is only Rs. 34 Crores and moreover, as per Para 26.2 of the Tribunal
order rendered in the case of Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (supra), as
reproduced in Para no. 15 of the Tribunal order rendered in the case of M/s.
Trianz Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (supra), it was held that Infosys Ltd. has
been considered functionally different from a company providing simple
software development services as this company owns significant intangibles and
has huge revenues from software products. Hence it is seen that Infosys Ltd.
is being excluded in so many cases not on this basis alone that this company
has huge turnover but this is also one of the reasons for excluding Infosys
Ltd. that this company owns significant intangibles and has huge revenues from
software products and therefore,it IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 9
of 40 cannot be compared with company providing simple software development
services. In the case of M/s. Trianz Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (supra), it
was noted by the Tribunal in Para no. 16 that this company was engaged in
providing software development services to its AE. In the present case also,
we are examining the exclusion of these six comparables in respect of software
development services segment of the assessee. This is also seen that this
Tribunal order is for same Assessment Year i.e. Assessment Year 2009-10 and
hence, in our considered opinion, this Tribunal order is applicable in the
present case particularly when no difference in facts could be pointed out by
ld. DR of revenue. For ready reference, we reproduce Para nos. 14 to 16 of
this Tribunal order from pages 3288 to 3298 of case law compendium. The same
are as under.
> "14. Remaining grounds i.e. 12 to 15 are in respect of assessee's claim for
> exclusion of various comparables i.e.
> 1) Bodhtree Consulting Ltd.
> 2) Tata Elxsi Ltd. (segment)
> 3) Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. (segment)
> 4) Persistent Systems Ltd.
> 5) Mindtree Ltd. (segment)
> 6) Larsen and Toubro Infotech Ltd.
> 7) Infosys Ltd.
> In course of hearing before us, it was submitted by ld. AR of assessee that
> exclusion of comparable Mindtree Ltd. as per ground no. 14 raised by
> assessee is not pressed and accordingly this part of ground no. 14 is
> rejected as not pressed. In respect of exclusion of remaining comparables as
> requested by the assessee, it was submitted in the chart that the assessee's
> request for exclusion of these five comparables i.e. 1) Bodhtree Consulting
> Ltd., 2) Infosys Ltd., 3) Persistent Systems Ltd., 4) Sasken Communication
> Technologies Ltd. and 5) Tata Elxsi Ltd. is as per the Tribunal order
> rendered in the case of Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT in ITA No.
> 464/Hyd/2014 dated 30.01.2015 copy of which is available in Paper Book no.
> II on pages 315 to 341. In particular, our attention was drawn to Para nos.
10.1 and 10.2 of this Tribunal order. It is also pointed out that in this
Tribunal order, the Tribunal has followed another Tribunal order rendered in
the case of CISCO Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in IT(TP)A No.
130/Bang/2014 dated 14.08.2014. It was submitted that Para 10.3 of this
Tribunal order is relevant regarding exclusion of Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Para no. 10.10 of this Tribunal order is relevant regarding exclusion of
Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. Regarding Larsen & Toubro Infotech
Ltd., it was submitted that this comparable company fails turnover filter
because onsite revenue IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 10 of 40 of
this company is only about 55%. The ld. DR of revenue supported the order of
AO and DRP.
15\. We have considered the rival submissions. First of all, we reproduce Para
nos. 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.10 of the Tribunal order rendered in the case of
Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (supra). "10.1 As far as comparables at Sl.
Nos. 1 to 5 are concerned, the issues are more or less covered by decisions of
the coordinate benches for the self-same AY i.e. 2009-10. In case of M/s CISCO
Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT, IT(TP) No. 130/Bang/14 dated 14/08/14, the
coordinate bench after examining in detail, excluded Bodhtree consulting Ltd.,
Infosys Ltd., Kals Information Systems and Tata Elxsi Ltd. (Seg.) The relevant
observations of the ITAT, Bangalore Bench in respect to each of the aforesaid
companies are reproduced hereunder for the sake of clarity:
"26.1 Bodhtree Consulting Ltd.:- As far as this company is concerned, it is
not in dispute that in the list of comparables chosen by the assessee, this
company was also included by the assessee. The assessee, however, submits
before us that later on it came to the assessee's notice that this company is
not being considered as a comparable company in the case of companies
rendering software development services. In this regard, the ld. counsel for
the assessee has brought to our notice the decision of the Mumbai Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of Nethawk Networks Pvt. Ltd. v. ITO, ITA
No.7633/Mum/2012, order dated 6.11.2013. In this case, the Tribunal followed
the decision rendered by the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Wills
Processing Services (I) P. Ltd., ITA No.4547/Mum/2012. In the aforesaid
decisions, the Tribunal has taken the view that Bodhtree Consulting Ltd. is in
the business of software products and was engaged in providing open & end to
end web solutions software consultancy and design & development of software
using latest technology. The decision rendered by the Mumbai Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of Nethawk Networks Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is in relation to
A. Y. 2008-09. It was affirmed by the learned counsel for the Assessee that
the facts and circumstances in the present year also remains identical to the
facts and circumstances as it prevailed in AY 08-09 as far as this comparable
company is concerned. Following the aforesaid decision of the Mumbai Bench of
the Tribunal, we hold that Bodhtree Consulting Ltd. cannot be regarded as a
comparable. In this regards, the fact that the assessee had itself proposed
this company as comparable, in our opinion, should not be the basis on which
the said company should be retained as a comparable, when factually it is
shown that the said company is a software product company and not a software
development services company.
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 11 of 40 26.2 Infosys Ltd.:- As far as
this company is concerned, it is not in dispute before us that this company
has been considered to be functionally different from a company providing
simple software development services, as this company owns significant
intangibles and has huge revenues from software products. In this regard, we
find that the Bangalore Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. TDPLM
Software Solutions Ltd. v. DCIT, ITA No.1303/Bang/2012, by order dated
28.11.2013 with regard to this comparable has held as follows:-
"11.0 Infosys Technologies Ltd.
11.1 This was a comparable selected by the TPO. Before the TPO, the assessee
objected to the inclusion of the company in the set of comparables, on the
grounds of turnover and brand attributable profit margin. The TPO, however,
rejected these objections raised by the assessee on the grounds that turnover
and brand aspects were not materially relevant in the software development
segment.
11.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative contended that this
company is not functionally comparable to the assessee in the case on hand.
The learned Authorised Representative drew our attention to various parts of
the Annual Report of this company to submit that this company commands
substantial brand value, owns intellectual property rights and is a market
leader in software development activities, whereas the assessee is merely a
software service provider operating its business in India and does not possess
either any brand value or own any intangible or intellectual property rights
(IPRs). It was also submitted by the learned Authorised Representative that :-
(i) the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 24/7 Customer.Com
Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.227/Bang/2010 has held that a company owning intangibles
cannot be compared to a low risk captive service provider who does not own any
intangible and hence does not have an additional advantage in the market. It
is submitted that this decision is applicable to the assessee's case, as the
assessee does not own any intangibles and hence Infosys Technologies Ltd.
cannot be comparable to the assessee;
(ii) the observation of the ITAT, Delhi Bench in the case of Agnity India
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.3856 (Del)/2010 at Para 5.2 thereof, that
Infosys Technologies Ltd. being a giant company and market leader assuming all
risks leading to higher profits cannot be considered as comparable to captive
service providers assuming limited risk ;
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 12 of 40
(iii) the company has generated several inventions and filed for many patents
in India and USA ;
(iv) the company has substantial revenues from software products and the break
up of such revenues is not available ;
(v) the company has incurred huge expenditure for research and development;
(vi) the company has made arrangements towards acquisition of IPRs in
'AUTOLAY', a commercial application product used in designing high performance
structural systems.
In view of the above reasons, the learned Authorised Representative pleaded
that, this company i.e. Infosys Technologies Ltd., be excluded from the list
of comparable companies.
11.3 Per contra, opposing the contentions of the assessee, the learned
Departmental Representative submitted that comparability cannot be decided
merely on the basis of scale of operations and the brand attributable profit
margins of this company have not been extraordinary. In view of this, the
learned Departmental Representative supported the decision of the TPO to
include this company in the list of comparable companies.
11.4 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. We find that the assessee as brought on record
sufficient evidence to establish that this company is functionally dis-similar
and different from the assessee and hence is not comparable and the finding
rendered in the case of Trilogy E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
for Assessment Year 2007- 08 is applicable to this year also. We are inclined
to concur with the argument put forth by the assessee that Infosys
Technologies Ltd is not functionally comparable since it owns significant
intangible and has huge revenues from software products. It is also seen that
the breakup of revenue from software services and software products is not
available. In this view of the matter, we hold that this company ought to be
omitted from the set of comparable companies. It is ordered accordingly."
The decision rendered as aforesaid pertains to A. Y. 2008-
09\. It was affirmed by the learned counsel for the Assessee that the facts
and circumstances in the present year also remains identical to the facts and
circumstances as it IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 13 of 40 prevailed
in AY 08-09 as far as this comparable company is concerned. Respectfully
following the decision of the Tribunal referred to above, we hold that Infosys
Ltd. be excluded from the list of comparable companies.
26.3 KALS Information Systems Ltd.:- As far as this company is concerned, it
is not in dispute before us that this company has been considered as not
comparable to a pure software development services company by the Bangalore
Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/s. Trilogy e-business Software India
Pvt. Ltd. (supra). The following were the relevant observations of the
Tribunal:-
"(d) KALS Information Systems Ltd.
46\. As far as this company is concerned, the contention of the assessee is
that the aforesaid company has revenues from both software development and
software products. Besides the above, it was also pointed out that this
company is engaged in providing training. It was also submitted that as per
the annual report, the salary cost debited under the software development
expenditure was Rs. 45,93,351. The same was less than 25% of the software
services revenue and therefore the salary cost filter test fails in this case.
Reference was made to the Pune Bench Tribunal's decision of the ITAT in the
case of Bindview India Private Limited Vs. DCI, ITA No. ITA No 1386/PN/1O
wherein KALS as comparable was rejected for AY 2006-07 on account of it being
functionally different from software companies. The relevant extract are as
follows:
"16. Another issue relating to selection of comparables by the TPO is
regarding inclusion of Kals Information System Ltd. The assessee has objected
to its inclusion on the basis that functionally the company is not comparable.
With reference to pages 185-186 of the Paper Book, it is explained that the
said company is engaged in development of software products and services and
is not comparable to software development services provided by the assessee.
The appellant has submitted an extract on pages 185-186 of the Paper Book from
the website of the company to establish that it is engaged in providing of I T
enabled services and that the said company is into development of software
products, etc. All these aspects have not been factually rebutted and, in our
view, the said concern is liable to be excluded from the final set of
comparables, and thus on this aspect, assessee succeeds."
Based on all the above, it was submitted on behalf of the assessee that KALS
Information Systems Limited should be rejected as a IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 14 of 40 comparable.
47\. We have given a careful consideration to the submission made on behalf of
the Assessee. We find that the TPO has drawn conclusions on the basis of
information obtained by issue of notice u/s. 133(6) of the Act. This
information which was not available in public domain could not have been used
by the TPO, when the same is contrary to the annual report of this company as
highlighted by the Assessee in its letter dated 21.6.2010 to the TPO. We also
find that in the decision referred to by the learned counsel for the Assessee,
the Mumbai Bench of ITAT has held that this company was developing software
products and not purely or mainly software development service provider. We
therefore accept the plea of the Assessee that this company is not
comparable."
Following the aforesaid decision of the Tribunal, we hold that KALS
Information Systems Ltd. should not be regarded as a comparable.
26.4 Tata ElxsiLtd.:- As far as this company is concerned, it is not in
dispute before us that in assessee's own case for the A. Y. 2007-08, this
company was not regarded as a comparable in its software development services
segment in ITA No. 1076/Bang/201 1, order dated 29.3.2013. Following were the
relevant observations of the Tribunal:-
II. UNREASONABLE COMPARABILITY CRITERIA :
19\. The learned Chartered Accountant pleaded that out of the six comparables
shortlisted above as comparables based on the turnover filter, the following
two companies, namely
(i) Tata Elxsi Ltd; and (ii) M/s. Flextronics Software Systems Ltd., deserve
to be eliminated for the following reasons :
(i) Tata Elxsi Ltd., : The company operates in the segments of software
development services which comprises of embedded product design services,
industrial design and engineering services and visual computing labs and
system integration services segment. There is no sub-services break
up/information provided in the annual report or the databases based on which
the margin from software services activity only could be computed. The company
has also in its response to the notice u/s. 133(6) stated that it cannot be
considered as comparable to any other software services company because of its
complex nature. Hence, Tata Elxsi Ltd., is to be excluded from the list of
comparables.
(ii) Flextronics Software Systems Ltd. : The learned TPO IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 15 of 40 has considered this company as a comparable
based on 133(6) reply wherein this company reflected its software development
services revenues to be more than 75% of the "software products and services"
segment revenues. Flextronics has a hybrid revenue model and hence should be
rejected as functionally different. Based on the information provided under
"Revenue recognition" in its annual report, it can be inferred that the
software services revenues are earned on a hybrid revenue model, and the same
is not similar to the regular models adopted by other software service
providers. The learned representative pleaded that a regular software services
provider could not be compared to a company having such a unique revenue
model, wherein the revenues of the company from software/product development
services depends on the success of the products sold by its clients in the
marketplace. Hence, it would be inappropriate to compare the business
operations of the assessee with that of a company following hybrid business
model comprising of royalty income as well as regular software services
income, for which revenue break-up is not available. He finally submitted that
this was a good reason to exclude this company also from the list of
comparables.
20\. On the other hand, the learned DR supported the order of the lower
authorities regarding the inclusion of Tata Elxsi and Flextronics Software
Systems Ltd., in the list of comparables. He reiterated the contents of Para
14.2.25 of the TPO's order. He also read out the following portion from the
TPO's order:
"Thus as stated above by the company, the following facts emerge:
1\. The company's software development and services segment constitutes three
sub-segments i) product design services; ii) engineering design services and
iii) visual computing labs.
2\. The product design services sub-segment is into embedded software
development. Thus this segment is into software development services.
3\. The cont ribution of the embedded ser vices s egment i s to the tune of
Rs.230 cr ores in the total segment r evenu e of Rs.263 crores. Even if we
consider the other two s ub- segments pert ain t o IT enabled s ervi ces, the
87.45 % (â€º75 %) of the segment's revenues is from software development
services.
4\. This segment qualifies all the filters applied by the TPO."
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 16 of 40 Regarding Flextronics
Software Systems, the following extract from page 143 of TPO's order was read
out by him as his submissions :
"It is very pertinent to mention here that the company was considered by the
taxpayer as a comparable for the preceding assessment year i.e., AY 2006-07.
When the same was accepted by the TPO as a comparable, the same was not
objected to it by the taxpayer. As the facts mentioned by the taxpayer are the
same and these were there in the earlier FY 2005-06, there is no reason why
the taxpayer is objecting to it. How the company is functionally similar in
the earlier FY 2005-06 but the same is not functionally similar for the
subsequent FY 2006-07 even when no facts have been changed from the preceding
year. Thus the taxpayer is arguing against this comparable as the company was
not considered as a comparable by the taxpayer for the present FY 2006-07."
21\. We have heard the rival submissions and considered the facts and
materials on record. After considering the submissions, we find that Tata
Elxsi and Flextronics are functionally different from that of the assessee and
hence they deserve to be deleted from the list of six comparables and hence
there remains only four companies as comparables, as listed below:"
26.5. Following the aforesaid decision of the Tribunal, we hold that
M/S.TataElxsi Ltd. should not be regarded as a comparable."
10.2 ITAT, Hyderabad Bench following the aforesaid decision of the ITAT,
Bangalore Bench also excluded these four companies in case of M/s Kenexa
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in ITA No. 243/Hyd/2014 dt. 14/11/2014.
Respectfully following the decisions of the ITAT, we direct AO/TPO to exclude
these four companies. As far as Comp-U Learn Global Tech India Ltd. is
concerned, ITAT, Hyderabad Bench in case of M/s Kenexa Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Vs. DCIT (supra) observed as under:
"39. The assessee submitted before the DRP that Comp-U- Learn Tech India Ltd.
was engaged in the development of new software (product development) (page 7
of the Annual Report) in ITES call centre and BPO services (page 11 of Annual
Report). It was further submitted that schedule XIII of the Annual Report
shows software development expenditure at only 25% of the total expenditure.
The TPO extracted the 133(6) notice and held that the company has IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 17 of 40 nil onsite revenue and satisfied all
the filters applied by the TPO. We are of the opinion that some more analysis
has to be done and we direct the TPO to look into the financial statement of
the company and also provide an opportunity to the assessee to submit relevant
details to substantiate its claim that Comp-U-L earn Tech India Ltd. is not a
comparable company."
Consistent with the view expressed by the coordinate bench, we also remit the
issue of comparability of this company to AO/TPO with similar directions.
10.3 As far as Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd. is concerned, it is the contention
of the learned AR that this company cannot be a comparable as it is engaged in
development of software product and product designing. On a perusal of the
extracts of annual report of this company for the FY 2008-09 submitted by ld.
AR, it is noticed that the company has claimed that it was formed mainly to
provide software development services. However, the P&L account for the year
ended 31/03/2009, a copy of which has been submitted before us, indicates that
it has shown income from sale of software services as well as products.
Therefore, unless segmental details are available, the company cannot be
treated as comparable. Moreover, in case of M/s 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd.
Vs. DCIT, IT(TP) No. 1303/Bang/2012, the ITAT Bangalore Bench held as under:
"We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. It is seen from the details on record that this company
i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd., is engaged in product development and product
design services while the assessee is a software development services
provider. We find that, as submitted by the assessee, the segmental details
are not given separately. Therefore, following the principle enunciated in the
decision of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telecordia Technologies India
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) that in the absence of segmental details / information a
company cannot be taken into account for comparability analysis, we hold that
this company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. ought to be omitted from the set of
comparables for the year under consideration. It is ordered accordingly."
Though, the aforesaid finding of the coordinate bench relates to the AY
2008-09, but, in our view, it will also equally apply to AY under
consideration as facts are identical. Therefore, respectfully following the
view expressed by the coordinate bench, we exclude this company IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 18 of 40 as comparable."
16\. We find that this Tribunal order is for the same Assessment Year i.e.
Assessment Year 2009-10 and in that case also, this company was engaged in
providing software development services to its AE and hence, it is seen that
the business profile of assessee is similar and Assessment Year is same and
therefore, we hold that this Tribunal order is relevant in the present case.
As per Para nos. 10.1 and 10.2 of this Tribunal order in that case, the
Tribunal has excluded 3 comparables i.e. Bodhtree Consulting Ltd., Infosys
Ltd. and Tata Elxsi Ltd. In Para 10.3 of this order, the Tribunal in that case
has excluded M/s. Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd. and as per Para 10.10 of that
Tribunal order, another comparable M/s. Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd.
was excluded. Respectfully following this Tribunal order, these five
comparables i.e. 1) Bodhtree Consulting Ltd., 2) Infosys Ltd., 3) Persistent
Systems Ltd., 4) Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. and 5) Tata Elxsi Ltd.
are excluded. Regarding assessee's request for exclusion of Larsen & Toubro
Infotech Ltd., we find that regarding this comparable company, page no. 24 of
the DRP directions is relevant. We find that on page no. 24 of its directions,
it is noted by DRP that this was the claim of the assessee before DRP that
turnover of this company is Rs. 2081.49 Crores whereas the assessee's turnover
is Rs. 33.94 Crores. It was also the objection before DRP that about 55% of
total exports of this company are from onsite services whereas in the present
case, the transactions with the AE are on offshore model. Regarding high
turnover of this company Larsen and Toubro Infotech Ltd. of Rs. 2081.49 Crores
as against turnover of assessee company of Rs. 33.94 Crores and in view of
this fact that 55% of total exports in that case are from onsite services
whereas in the present case the export to AE is on offshore model, we find
force in the contention of ld. AR of assessee that this is not a good
comparable and therefore, we direct the AO / DRP to exclude this comparable
Larsen and Toubro Infotech Ltd. also. Hence these six comparables are
excluded. Accordingly ground nos. 12 and 13 are allowed and ground no. 14 is
partly allowed."
8\. We have gone through these paras of the Tribunal order and we find that in
the facts of present case, this Tribunal order is applicable and in this
Tribunal order, exclusion of following six comparables is approved.
i) Bodhtree Consulting Ltd.
ii) Infosys Ltd.
iii) Persistent Systems Ltd.
iv) Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd.
v) Tata Elxsi Ltd.
vi) Larsen and Toubro Infotech Ltd.
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 19 of 40 Respectfully following this
Tribunal order, we hold that in the present case also, these six comparables
should be excluded from the final list of comparables.
9\. Now we discuss and decide about the assessee's request for exclusion of
four comparables in ITES segment. As per the chart filed by the assessee in
respect of this request for exclusion of four comparables in ITES segment,
reliance has been placed on Tribunal order rendered in the case of Target
Corporation India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT in IT(TP)A Nos. 184 & 228/Bang/2014 dated
31.08.2017, copy available on pages 3181 to 3201 of case law compendium and in
particular, our attention was drawn to Para nos. 12 and 13 of this Tribunal
order available on pages 3192 to 3201 of case law compendium. The ld. DR of
revenue supported the orders of authorities below.
10\. We have considered the rival submissions. For ready reference, we
reproduce paras 12 and 13 of this Tribunal order which read as under.
> "12.Regarding exclusion of four comparables in ITES segment 1) Accentia
> Technologies Ltd., 2) Infosys BPO Ltd., 3) Cosmic Global Ltd. and 4) Eclerx
> Services Ltd., we reproduce paras 11.1 to 11.4 of the tribunal order
> rendered in the case of e4e Business Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT in
> IT (TP) A No. 1845/bang/2013 dated 10.11.2015 copy on pages 49 to 80 of case
> law compilation and relevant pages being pages 61 to 75. These paras are as
> under:-
> "11.1 Accentia Technologies Ltd.
The learned AR of the assessee has submitted that though the TPO has recorded
the business profile of the assessee, however, the international transactions
of the assessee are carried out only in respect of service of contact centre
outsourcing to its AE as per the service agreement. The learned AR of the
assessee has referred to Annual report of Accentia Technologies Ltd., and
submitted that this company has acquired M/s.Oak Technologies Inc, USA during
the year under consideration and therefore, there is an extraordinary event of
acquisition of another company. He has thus submitted that in view of the
extraordinary event of acquisition, this company cannot be considered as a
good comparable of the assessee. Apart from this objection, learned AR of the
assessee has submitted that even otherwise this company is not functionally
comparable with the assessee so far as services provided to the AE. He has
referred to various business transactions and services provided by Accentia
Technologies Ltd., and submitted that this company is in the various IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 20 of 40 segments of activities like medical
transcription, medical coding, medical billing, etc. The activity of medical
transcription and medical coding is entirely different from the service of
contact centre service provided by the assessee to its AE and therefore, this
company cannot be considered as functionally comparable with the assessee. The
learned AR of the assessee has referred to the revenue earned by the said
company and submitted that substantial revenue has been earned by the said
company from the business activity of medical transcription apart from billing
and collection as well as medical coding activity.
(i) On the other hand, learned Departmental Representative has submitted that
this company satisfies the filter test applied by the TPO for selecting
companies in the category of Information Technology Service (ITES) company.
The assessee is also engaged in the activity of providing ITeS to its AE and
therefore, both the assessee as well as Accentia Technologies Ltd., are
engaged in the similar business activity. He has referred to the findings of
the TPO and the DRP and submitted that the DRP has rejected the objections
raised by the assessee against this company. Therefore, this company is a good
comparable for determination of the ALP in respect of international
transactions of the assessee.
(ii) We have considered the rival submissions as well as relevant material on
record. The first objection has been raised by the learned AR of the assessee
on account of extraordinary event of acquisition/purchase of business by
Accentia Technologies Ltd., whereby M/s. Oak Technologies Inc, USA has been
acquired by this company during the year under consideration. Though the
extraordinary event of merger or acquisition, if influenced the business as
well as the revenue of a company then said company is not considered as a good
comparable for the purpose of determination of the ALP however, in this case,
it is not clear from the Annual Report whether the business of M/s. Oak
Technologies Inc has been acquired and merged with the said company during the
year under consideration. It appears that Accentia Technologies Ltd., has
purchased up to 96% of the share holding of M/s. Oak Technologies. If it is
only a transaction of purchase of shares of the said company then it may be a
case of purchase of ongoing business and may not be a case of merging the same
with the business of Accentia Technologies Ltd. In the absence of the relevant
fact that the business of the said company has been merged with Accentia
Technologies Ltd., it may be a case of acquiring the shares and M/s. Oak
Technologies still remains an independent entity and business activity.
Therefore, in the IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 21 of 40 absence of
complete relevant facts, it cannot be held that the so- called acquisition of
M/s. Oak Technologies can be considered as an extraordinary event having
impact on the revenue as well as business activity of Accentia Technologies
Ltd. Accordingly, this argument of the learned AR of the assessee is rejected
for want of complete facts.
(iii) As regards the functional dissimilarity, we note that Accentia
Technologies Ltd is engaged in diversified activity of medical transcription,
medical coding, billing, receivable management. Thus it is clear that the said
company is engaged in the healthcare activity and providing BPO service in the
healthcare sector, that too by providing specific services of medical
transcription, medical coding, medical billing etc. We note that these
activities are quite different from the service of contact centre provided by
the assessee to its AE which is purely in the nature of call centre.
Therefore, we are of the view that the company Accentia Technologies Ltd
cannot be considered as a functionally comparable company with the services
provided by the assessee to its AE. The TPO is directed to exclude this
company from the set of comparables.
11.2 Eclerx Services Ltd.
The learned AR of the assessee has submitted that this company is engaged in
the high-end services and therefore, this company is basically a KPO and not a
BPO. He has referred to Annual Report of this company at page 26 of the paper
book -II and submitted that as it is clear from the Annual Report that this
company is a knowledge process outsourcing (K. P. O) providing data analytics
and data process solutions to global enterprise clients. This company supports
core and complex activities for its clients using proprietary processes and a
scalable offshore delivery model. This company has access to the capital
market and therefore, this company is a public listed KPO company in India.
The company is also engaged in consulting services and process outsourcing as
well as in the activity of process re- engineering and automation apart from
middle office and back office support to capital market. Therefore, keeping in
the diversified high-end services, this company cannot be considered as
functionally comparable with the assessee. In support of his contention, he
has relied upon the decision of the Special Bench of the Mumbai Tribunal in
the case of Maersk Global Centres (India) (P.) Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT [2014] 43
taxmann.com 100/147 ITD 83.
(i) On the other hand, learned Departmental Representative has submitted that
this company is undisputedly in the business of ITeS and therefore, the
nomenclature that of KPO will not make it functionally IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 22 of 40 different from the assessee. He has relied upon
the orders of the authorities below.
(ii) We have considered the rival submissions as well as relevant material on
record. We find that the company Eclerx Services Ltd. is engaged in
diversified activity of providing services including analytic services and
data process solutions to its global clients. The service provided by Eclerx
Services Ltd., is in various areas including capital market and therefore, the
services are in the nature of consultancy and end to end support through trade
centre including trade confirmation, settlement, transaction, maintenance and
analytic and reporting. Thus it is apparent from the nature of the activity of
this company that it is not providing a simple service of data processing but
it is engaged in the activity of providing high-end services involving
decision making analysis which requires thought process and evaluation of
various facts and factors. Functional comparability of this company with that
of simple BPO's service providing company has been examined by the Special
Bench in the case of Maersk Global Centres (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra) in
paras.82 & 83 as under :
82\. In so far as M/s eClerx Services Limited is concerned, the relevant
information is available in the form of annual report for financial year
2007-08 placed at page 166 to 183 of the paper book. A perusal of the same
shows that the said company provides data analytics and data process solutions
to some of the largest brands in the world and is recognized as experts in
chosen markets-financial services and retail and manufacturing. It is claimed
to be providing complete business solutions by combining people, process
improvement and automation. It is claimed to have employed over 1500 domain
specialists working for the clients. It is claimed that eClerx is a different
company with industry specialized services for meeting complex client needs,
data analytics KPO service provider specializing in two business verticals
financial services and retail and manufacturing. It is claimed to be engaged
in providing solutions that do not just reduce cost, but help the clients
increase sales and reduce risk by enhancing efficiencies and by providing
valuable insights that empower better decisions. M/s eClerx Services Pvt. Ltd.
is also claimed to have a scalable delivery model and solutions offered that
include data analytics, operations management, audits and reconciliation,
metrics management and reporting IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 23 of
40 services. It also provides tailored process outsourcing and management
services along with a multitude of data aggregation, mining and maintenance
services. It is claimed that the company has a team dedicated to developing
automation tools to support service delivery. These software automation tools
increase productivity, allowing customers to benefit from further cost saving
and output gains with better control over quality. Keeping in view the nature
of services rendered by M/s eClerx Services Pvt. Ltd. and its functional
profile, we are of the view that this company is also mainly engaged in
providing high-end services involving specialized knowledge and domain
expertise in the field and the same cannot be compared with the assessee
company which is mainly engaged in providing low-end services to the group
concerns.
83\. For the reasons given above, we are of the view that if the functions
actually performed by the assessee company for its AEs are compared with the
functional profile of M/s eClerx Services Pvt. Ltd. and Mold-Tec Technologies
Ltd., it is difficult to find out any relatively equal degree of comparability
and the said entities cannot be taken as comparables for the purpose of
determining ALP of the transactions of the assessee company with its AEs. We,
therefore, direct that these two entities be excluded from the list of 10
comparables finally taken by the AO/TPO as per the direction of the DRP.
Thus it is clear that the Special Bench found that this company is not
comparable with BPO company which are engaged only in low end services of data
processing. Accordingly, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude Eclerx Services Ltd.
from the list of comparables for the purposes of determining ALP.
11.3 Infosys BPO Ltd.
The learned AR of the assessee has referred to the Annual Report of this
company at page 57 of the paper book and submitted that though this company
was initially selected by the assessee, however, the assessee has raised
objections against this company even before the TPO and further before the
DRP. Therefore, this company, if found functionally different, has to be
excluded from the list of comparables. The learned AR of the assessee has
pointed out that this company is having more than 17000 employees in
comparison to only 6 employees of the assessee. Therefore, even on the
parameter of the scale and strength of employees, this company cannot be
considered as functionally comparable with that of the assessee. Further, he
has referred to the Annual Report of the company and submitted that during the
year under consideration, there is IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 24
of 40 amalgamation of PAN Financial Services India Pvt. Ltd. w.e.f. 1/4/2008.
The scheme of amalgamation has been approved by the Hon'ble High Court on
6/4/2009 and 10/3/2009. Therefore, there is an extraordinary event of
amalgamation during the year under consideration and hence this company cannot
be considered as a good comparable for the purpose of determining the ALP.
Apart from the above objections, learned AR of the assessee has further
submitted that this company is engaged in providing business process
management services to organizations with outsourcing their business process.
Therefore, this company is in a different kind of business activity in
providing the management service of business processes and is not directly
providing any business process outsource services. Thus, this company cannot
be considered as a functionally comparable.
(i) On the other hand, the learned Departmental Representative has submitted
that this company is in the business activity of providing ITeS and therefore,
it satisfies all the tests and filters applied by the TPO. The functional
comparability has been examined by the DRP and it was found that this company
is in the same line of activity under the category of ITeS. He has relied upon
the order of the authorities below.
(ii) We have considered the rival submissions as well as relevant material on
record. We note that in Para 16.2.15 of the Annual Report of this company, it
has been reported that there was amalgamation w.e.f. 1/4/2008. The relevant
part of the information provided in the Annual Report reads as under:
"Amalgamation of PAN Financial Services India Private Limited The Board of
Directors in their meeting held on October 6. 2008. approved, subject to the
approval of the Honorable High Courts of Karnataka and Chennai, a Scheme of
amalgamation ("the Scheme") to amalgamate PAN Financial Services India Private
Limited ("PAN Financial"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company engaged in
providing business process management of services, with the Company with
effect from April 1. 2008 ("effective date"). The approval of the High Court
was received on April 6, 2009 and filed with the respective Registrar of
Companies of Karnataka and Tamilnadu on April 6, 2009 and March 10, 2009
respectively. Accordingly on the scheme becoming effective, the financial
statement of PAN Financial has been merged with the company."
It is clear that there was extraordinary event of amalgamation during the year
under consideration. Therefore, in view of the extraordinary development of
amalgamation of another company, this company IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 25 of 40 cannot be considered as a good comparable for
the assessment year under consideration. Apart from this, we further note that
as per the segment reporting in para.16.2.21 this company is providing
business process management services as under: "Segment reporting The
company's operations primarily relate to providing business process management
services to organizations that outsource their business processes.
Accordingly. revenues represented along industry classes comprise the primary
basis of segmental information set out in these financial statements.
Secondary segmental reporting is performed on the basis of the geographical
location of customers. The accounting principles consistently used in the
preparation of the financial statements are also consistently applied to
record income in individual segments. These are set out in the note on
significant accounting policies."
Thus it is clear that the revenue earned by this company is from the activity
inclusive of operation primarily relates to providing business process
management services to other organization engaged in outsourcing business
process. This company is not engaged in direct activity of BPO but it provides
service to BPOs and that too management service to BPO. Therefore, in our
considered view, this company is engaged in a different nature of activity to
that of the assessee provided to its AE. Accordingly, we direct the AO/TPO to
exclude this company from the list of comparables.
11.4 Cosmic Global Ltd.
The learned AR of the assessee submitted that the assessee raised objection
against inclusion of this company in the list of comparables before the TPO on
the ground that this company has major revenue from translation services.
Therefore, this company is functionally different from the services provided
by the assessee to its AE. The learned AR of the assessee has referred to the
Annual report of this company and submitted that that out of the total revenue
of Rs. 7,37,02,584/-, this company has earned revenue from translation charges
to the tune of Rs. 6,99,35,756/-. Therefore, substantial part of the revenue
has been earned from the activity of translation. The learned AR of the
assessee has further pointed out that even otherwise this company is
outsourcing the work of translation as it is evident from the profit and loss
account of this company that an amount of Rs. 3,00,25,326/- has been paid on
account of translation charges. Thus, learned AR of the assessee has submitted
that this company cannot be considered as functionally comparable with the
assessee for the purpose of determining the ALP. In support of his contention,
he has relied upon the decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in
the case of Lam Research (India) (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT in ITA No.
1437/Bang/2014 dated 30/4/2015.
(i) On the other hand, learned Departmental Representative has submitted that
the comparability of this company has been examined by the TPO as well as
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 26 of 40 by the DRP. The TPO has
rejected the objections raised by the assessee in respect of this company by
holding that the translation service are in the nature of ITeS and therefore,
it qualifies all the filters applied by the TPO. He has relied upon the orders
of the authorities below.
(ii) We have considered the rival submissions as well as the relevant material
on record. There is no dispute that this company is in the business of
providing service of medical transcription and consultancy services,
translations services and accounts BPO. The segmental revenue from the
operations are given in schedule 8 to the Profit & Loss account which reveals
that major revenue of Rs. 6,99,35,756/- out of total revenue of Rs. 7.37
crores has been earned by this company from the activity of translation
services. We further note that the company has debited an expenditure of more
than Rs. 3 crore on account of translations charges paid. Thus it is clear
that this company is outsourcing its services of translation work which is the
main activity of this company yielding major revenue earned during the year.
Thus it is manifest from the record that this company is in the entirely
different nature of activity and cannot be compared with the activity of
providing contact centre of the assessee to its AE. In the case of Lam
Research (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra) the co- ordinate bench of this Tribunal had
occasion to examine the comparability of this company in Para. 34 as under:
"34. With respect to Cosmic Global Ltd., Hyderabad bench of ITAT in the case
of Capital IQ Information Systems (India) P. Ltd., in Para 19 of its order,
had held as under Cosmic Global Ltd.
19\. The main objection of assessee with reference to the inclusion of this
company is with reference to outsourcing of its main activity. Even though
this company is in assessee's TP study, it has raised objection before the TPO
that this company's employee cost is less than 21.30% and most of the cost is
with reference to the outsourcing charges or translation charges, and as such
this is not a comparable company. The TPO, though considered these
submissions, rejected the same, on the reason that this does not impact the
profit margin of the company. Opposing the view taken by the TPO, it is
submitted that this company cannot be selected as comparable, as IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 27 of 40 M/s. Capital IQ Information systems
(India) Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad similar issue was discussed by the coordinate
Bench of the Tribunal(Delhi) in the case of Mercer Consulting (India) P. Ltd.
(supra), vide paras 13.2 to 13.3 which read as under-
13.2. Now coming to the factual matrix of this case, we find from the material
on record that outsourcing charges of this case constitute 57.31% of the total
operating costs. This does not appear to us to be a valid reason for
eliminating this case from the list of comparables. On going through the
Annual accounts of Cosmic Global Limited, a copy of which has been placed on
record, we find that its total revenue from operations are at Rs. 7.37 crore
divided into three segments, namely, Medical transcription and consultancy
services at Rs. 9.90 lacs, Translation charges at Rs. 6.99 crore and Accounts
BPO at Rs. 27.76 lac. The Id. AR has made out a case that outsourcing activity
carried out by this company constitutes 57% of total expenses. The reason for
which we are not agreeable with the Id. AR is that we have to examine the
revenue of this case only from Accounts BPO segment and not on the entity
level, being also from Medical transcription and Translation charges. When we
are examining the results of this company from the Accounts BPO segment alone,
there is no need to examine the position under other segments. The entire
outsourcing is confined to Translation charges paid at Rs. 3.00 crore, which
is strictly in the realm of the Translation segment, revenues from which are
to the tune of Rs. 6.99 crore. If this segment of Translation is not under
consideration for deciding as to whether this case is comparable or not, we
cannot take recourse to the figures which are relevant for segments other than
accounts BPO. Thus it is held that this case cannot be excluded on the
strength of outsourcing activity, which is alien to the relevant segment.
13.3 However, we find this case to incomparable on the alternative argument
advanced by the Id. AR to the effect that total revenue of the Accounts BPO
segment of Cosmic Global Limited is very low at Rs. 27. 76 lacs. We have
discussed this aspect above in the context of CG-VAK's case and held that a
captive unit cannot be compared with a giant case and thus excluded CG- VAK
with turnover from Accounts BPO segment at Rs. 86.10 lacs. As the segmental
revenue of BPO segment of Cosmic Global Limited at Rs. 27. 76 lac is still on
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 28 of 40 much lower side, the reasons
given above would fully apply to hold Cosmic Global Limited as incomparable.
This case is, therefore, directed to be excluded from the list of comparables.
In view of the detailed analysis of the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in
the above referred case, in this case also we accept the contentions of
assessee and direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this comparable for
the same reasons.
Accordingly, we direct that Cosmic Global Ltd., also be excluded from the list
of comparables."
In view of the above discussion as well as the order of the co- ordinate bench
of this Tribunal, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list
of comparables for the purpose of determining the ALP.
13.Learned DR of the revenue could not point out any difference in facts.
Therefore, respectfully following these two tribunal orders, we decline to
interfere in the order of DRP in respect of this issue regarding exclusion of
1) Bodhtree Consulting Ltd., 2) Tata Elxsi Ltd., 3) Persistent Systems Ltd.
and 4) Infosys Ltd. in IT segment and in ITES segment, we uphold the exclusion
of 1) Accentia Technologies Ltd., 2) Infosys BPO Ltd., 3) Cosmic Global Ltd.
and 4) Eclerx Services Ltd. Remaining grounds on TP issues are rejected as not
pressed as no argument was advanced on that account."
11\. We find that in that case, the Tribunal has followed another Tribunal
order rendered in the case of e4e Business Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT
in IT(TP)A No. 1845/Bang/2013 dated 10.11.2015 and the relevant paras of this
Tribunal order has been reproduced by the Tribunal. The ld. DR of revenue
could not point out any difference in facts in the present case and in the
case of Target Corporation India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (supra) or in the case of
e4e Business Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (supra). Hence we hold that
this Tribunal order is applicable in the present case. As per this Tribunal
order, it was held that these four comparables 1) Accentia Technologies
Limited, 2) Infosys BPO Limited, 3) Cosmic Global Limited and 4) Eclerx
Services Limited are to be excluded from the final list of comparables.
Respectfully following this Tribunal order, we hold that in present case also,
these four comparables should be excluded from the final list of comparables
in ITES segment. Ground no. 4 is allowed.
IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 29 of 40
12\. Now we discuss and decide ground no. 15. As per this ground, the
assessee's grievance is this that two comparable companies in respect of
software development services segment i.e. Thinksoft Global Services Limited
and F C S Software Solutions Limited should not be excluded and the same
should be included. Regarding this ground, reliance has been placed on the
Tribunal order rendered in the case of M/s. TE Connectivity Global Shared
Services India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO in IT(TP)A No. 1280/Bang/2014 dated
13.12.2017, copy available on pages 3078 to 3118 of case law compendium.
Reliance is also placed on another Tribunal order rendered in the case of ARM
Embedded Technologies P. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in IT(TP)A No. 1659/Bang/2014 dated
31.08.2015, copy available on pages 3249 to 3267 of case law compendium. The
ld. DR of revenue supported the orders of authorities below.
13\. We have considered the rival submissions. Our attention was drawn to Para
no. 13.5.2 of the Tribunal order rendered in the case of M/s. TE Connectivity
Global Shared Services India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO (supra) and it was pointed out
that in this case, the Tribunal has followed the earlier Tribunal order
rendered in the case of ARM Embedded Technologies P. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (supra).
For ready reference, we reproduce paras 13.1 to 13.5.2 of this Tribunal order
from pages 3102 to 3107 of the case law compendium.
> "Assessee's Plea for Inclusion of 2 companies in the list ofcomparables
> -Software Development Services Segment.
> 13.1 In the revised grounds raised (supra), the assessee has soughtinclusion
> of the following two companies in the final set ofcomparables :-
> (i) Thinksoft Global Services Ltd. and
> (ii) FCS Software Solutions Ltd.
13.2 On a perusal of the TPOï˜s order under Section 92CA of the Act atpara 13.1
(b), we find that the TPO himself in the show cause notices hasproposed the
aforesaid two companies for inclusion in the final set ofcomparables, but had
thereafter came to the view that the workingcapital adjustment for both these
companies exceeded 4% of profits andtherefore these two companies could not be
taken as propercomparables. At para 13.1 (b), the TPO has rendered the IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 30 of 40 followingreasoning for excluding
these two companies as under :-
"13.1 (b) Two companies proposed in the show cause notice arefunctionally
similar to the taxpayer. However, when the working capitalof these companies
is considered, the profit margin get distorted. It maynot be out of context to
mention that our search for comparable isprimarily focus on those companies
whose profit margin is predominantlyform operating business and not from
financial activities. This prerequisiteis not different in case of software
development companies asthey do not need any interest bearing funds to manage
their workingcapital requirement. Therefore, with the purpose to identify only
thoseuncontrolled comparables who are having profit margin from coreoperating
activities and not from financial activities, the following twocompanies
having working capital impact of more than 4% on profit havebeen excluded.
1\. Thinksoft Global Services Limited.
2\. FCS Software Solutions Limited."
13.3 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative submitted thatin similar
factual circumstances, as those prevailing in the case on handwith respect to
the aforesaid companies, for the same assessment year2009-10, a co-ordinate
bench of this Tribunal in its order in the case ofARM Embedded Technologies P.
Ltd. in IT(TP)A No.1659/Bang/2014dt.31.8.2015; where the assessee was engaged
in, inter alia, provisions ofsoftware development and maintenance services to
its AEs; just as in thecase on hand, the Tribunal directed inclusion of the
aforesaid twocompanies in the final set of comparables and set aside to the
file of theTPO the computation of working capital adjustment on actual basis
forworking out the correct PLI of the final comparables.
13.4 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative forrevenue supported
the orders of the authorities below in excluding theabove two companies from
the list of comparables.
13.5.1 We have heard the rival contentions, perused and carefullyconsidered
the material on record; including the judicial pronouncementcited. We find the
very same issue, in similar circumstances of inclusionof the aforesaid two
companies i.e. (i) Thinksoft Global Services Ltd. and(ii) FCS Software
Solutions Ltd. in the final list as comparables to anassessee providing
software development services to its AEs; just as inthe case on hand, was
considered by a co-ordinate bench of this Tribunalin the case of ARM Embedded
Technology P. Ltd. for Assessment Year2009-10 (supra). In its order, at paras
20 to 25 thereof, the co-ordinatebench (i) directed inclusion of the aforesaid
two companies in the finalset of comparables and (ii) set aside to the file of
the TPO/A.O., the issueof working out the correct PLI of the final set of
comparables IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 31 of 40 bycomputing and
allowing working capital adjustment on actual basis;holding as under :
"20. Coming to the ground for inclusion of M/s. Thinksoft Global Solutions Ltd
and FCSSoftware Solutions Ltd, we find that TPO herself had suggested these in
the show causenotice, but had thereafter come to a conclusion that working
capital adjustment required forthese two companies exceeded 4% of profits and
could not be therefore taken as propercomparables. Reasons given by the TPO
for excluding these two companies, appear at paras3.6.5.1, of her order which
reads as under :
b) Two companies proposed in the show-cause notice are functionally similar to
thetaxpayer. However, when the working capital of these companies is
considered, theprofit margin gets distorted. It may not be out of context to
mention that oursearch for comparable is primarily focus on those companies
whose profit margin ispredominantly from operating business and not from
financial activities. Thisprerequisite is not different in case of software
development companies as they donot need any interest bearing funds to manage
their working capital requirement.Therefore, with the purpose to identify only
those uncontrolled comparables whoare having profit margin from core operating
activities and not from financialactivities, the following two companies
having working capital impact of more than4% on profit have been excluded.
21\. TPO has accepted that these companies were functionally similar to that
of theassessee. However, according to her, the margins of these companies had
not come from itscore operating activities but from financial activities.
Profit and Loss account of M/s.Thinksoft Global Solutions for the relevant
previous year is placed at paper book page.247.Software service revenues of
the said company came to Rs.920921452/-. Other income ofthe said company came
to Rs.35,738,801/-. Break-up of the other income as given atschedule 10 placed
at paper book page.256 show that out of such amount Rs.26,536,978/-was
exchange gain. Interest received from deposits with banks and others came
toRs.29,15,080/- only. For better clarity this break-up is given hereunder :
Other income Interest received on deposits with banks.. 2,371,740 Interest
received from others ..543,310 Profit on sale of fixed assets ..6,276,773
Exchange gain (Net) .. 26,536,978 Miscellaneous income .. 10,000 35,738,801 We
cannot say that the 'other income' arose out of any financial services done by
theassessee and would take away the sheen of its software services income. The
amount, inour opinion, was IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 32 of 40
insignificantly small and not enough to warrant a conclusion that itsoperating
margins had come not from its core operational activities.
22\. Coming to FCS Software Solutions Ltd, profit and loss account placed at
paper bookpage 321 shows that its revenue from software development and other
services wasRs.1902547907/-. As against this, miscellaneous income was only
Rs.7875588/-. Break-up ofsuch miscellaneous income as given at schedule M,
placed at paper book page. 328 reads asunder :
    Interest       ..     2,875,685
    Rent income .. 4,515,000
    Amount W/Back ..      484,902
                          7,875,588
23\. Compared to the software development services income, interest received
by M/s.FCS Software Solutions Ltd, was in our opinion, insignificantly small.
Thus the reasoning givenby TPO for rejecting these two companies as proper
comparables, was in our opinion,incorrect. We set aside the orders of the
lower authorities in this regard and direct these twocompanies to be included
in the list of comparables for working out the average PLI.
24\. Now coming to the issue of working capital adjustment, findings of the
TPO in thisregard as it appears at para 3.7, reads as under :
3.7. Working Capital Adjustment:
The working capital adjustment is computed as per the formula given in
Annexure to the OECD Guidelines, 2009. In this case, the average PLR adopted
by SBI the largest scheduled bank, for short term working capital loans for
the relevant FY 2008-09 is considered. The average PLR of 12.50% p.a was
adopted by the TPO while computing the working capital adjustment. The working
capital adjustment is restricted to the average cost of capital computed at
1.71% in the case of the uncontrolled comparables selected by the TPO. Hence,
the working capital adjustment in the case of the taxpayer is allowed as per
the calculation in annexure -C or the average cost of capital to the
comparables whichever is the least. The derailed discussion on this is given
in the Annexure-D to the order. The computation of the working capital
adjustment is annexed to this order as Annexure C.
TPO had restricted the cost of capitalto 1.71%. Rationality for such an upper
limit beingplaced on working capital adjustment was an issue which had come up
before this Tribunal inthe case of M/s. Rambus Chip Technologies (India) P.
Ltd v. DCIT [IT(TP)A.23/Ban/2015,dt.22.07.2015. Coordinate bench had held as
under at para 13 and 14 of its order :
> IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 33 of 40
> 13\. As regards ground No.3(f), learned counsel for theassessee submitted
> that the AO/TPO while considering theworking capital adjustment, has arrived
> at the working capitaladjustment in the case of the assessee at 5.97%, but
> while givingeffect to the working capital adjustment, has restricted the
> saidadjustment to 1.71% in case of uncontrolled comparablesselected by the
> TPO. The learned counsel for the assesseesubmitted that the TPO has not
> given any basis for suchrestriction of the working capital adjustment. He
> submitted thatthe CIT(A) also has not applied his mind to this issue but
> hassummarily confirmed the order of the AO and therefore it has tobe set
> aside.
> 14\. On going through the TPO s order as well as annexure Dreferred to in
> the transfer pricing order on working capitaladjustment, we find that the AO
> has not given any basis forrestricting the adjustment to 1.71%. In all the
> cases relating totransfer pricing adjustment, this Tribunal has been
> directing togive working capital adjustment on actual basis and the
> TPOhaving arrived at 5.97% ought to have adopted the same insteadof
> restricting it to 1.71%. In view of the same, we deem itproper to remand
> this issue to the file of the AO/TPO forworking out the ALP after giving
> adjustment of working capitalas per the calculation of the AO in annexure D
> annexed to thetransfer pricing order. This ground of appeal is
> accordinglyallowed.
> 25\. Accordingly we direct the AO / TPO to correctly work out the PLI of the
> finalcomparables after giving due adjustment for the working capital on
> actual basis. Relatedground of the assessee is therefore allowed."
> 13.5.2 Respectfully following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate
> bench of this Tribunal in the case of ARM EmbeddedTechnologies P. Ltd. for
> Assessment Year 2009-10, we hold and direct theTPO that the following two
> companies i.e. (i) Thinksoft Global ServicesLtd. and (ii) FCS Software
> Solutions Ltd. be included in the final set ofcomparables and set aside to
> the file of the TPO the issue of workingout the correct PLI of the final set
> of comparables by computing andallowing working capital adjustment on actual
> basis."
14\. The ld. DR of revenue could not point out any difference in facts and
hence, respectfully following this Tribunal order we hold and direct the TPO
that following two companies i.e. Thinksoft Global Services Limited and F C S
Software Solutions Limited be included in the final list of comparables.
Ground no. 15 is also allowed.
15\. Now we discuss and decide ground nos. 20 and 21. In this regard, it was
submitted by ld. AR of assessee that as per ground no. 6 raised before CIT(A),
this was the grievance of the assessee that export receipts for the IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 34 of 40 months of January, February and March
2009 should also be considered as part of export turnover because the AO has
excluded the turnover of these three months for the purpose of computing
deduction allowable to assessee u/s. 10A of IT Act. He also submitted that the
issue regarding allowability of deduction u/s. 10A was decided by CIT(A) as
per Para 3 of his order and in the same, the only issue decided by him is this
as to whether the value of telecommunication expenses reduced from export
turnover by the AO should also be reduced from total turnover or not. But the
issue raised by assessee in ground no. 6 raised before CIT(A) was not decided
by him. Hence the matter should be restored back to his file for deciding this
issue. The ld. DR of revenue supported the orders of authorities below.
16\. We have considered the rival submissions. First of all, we reproduce
ground no. 6 raised by assessee before CIT(A).
> "6. The learned AO has erred in law, by not considering export receipts for
> the months of January, February and March 2009 as part of export turnover
> and accordingly reducing the same from export turnover for computing the
> deduction under section 10A of the Act on the ground that the Appellant was
> unable to produce the softex forms for the said months during the assessment
> proceedings.
> â€¢ The learned AO has erred in facts, by not considering the softex form for
> March 2009which was submitted by the Appellant during the assessment
> proceedings."
17\. Now we reproduce Para nos. 3 and 4 of the order of CIT(A) because only
these two paras contain the decision of CIT(A) in respect of corporate tax
issue.
> "CORPORATE TAX:
> 3\. In the grounds taken, the assessee objects to the curtailment of
> deduction u/s. 10A on account of adjustment of export turnover by the AO.
> The AO excluded the value of telecommunication expenses from export
> turnover. The assessee contended that it should be reduced from export
> turnover also. This issue is squarely covered by the Jurisdictional High
> Court in the case of CIT Vs. Tata Elxsi Ltd. (349 ITR 98) (Kar). The
> Judgement of the Jurisdictional High Court is binding precedent and
> respectfully following the same, the AO is directed to follow the ratio laid
> down by the Hon'ble Court while computing deduction u/s.10A in the order
> giving effect to this appellate order.
> IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 35 of 40
> 4\. With regard to levy of interest u/s. 234B and initiation of penalty u/s.
> 271(1)(c) it is stated that the actions are mandatory and premature,
> respectively, therefore no adjudication is required."
18\. It is seen that ground no. 6 raised by assessee before CIT(A) was not
decided by CIT(A) and hence, we restore this matter back to the file of CIT(A)
for a decision in respect of ground no. 6 raised by assessee before CIT(A)
after providing reasonable opportunity of being heard to both sides.
Accordingly ground nos. 20 and 21 raised before us stands allowed for
statistical purposes.
19\. In the result, the assessee's appeal stands partly allowed in the terms
indicated above.
20\. Now we take up the revenue's appeal. It was submitted by ld. DR of
revenue that ground no. 1 is general and regarding ground no. 2, she submitted
that as per Para nos. 12.2.5 and 12.2.6 of his order, the ld. CIT(A) has
excluded one comparable i.e. Infosys Ltd. without any discussion. While
deciding the appeal of assessee, we have already held that exclusion of
Infosys Ltd. by CIT(A) in this manner is not proper but we have excluded this
comparable by way of a detailed discussion by following the Tribunal order
rendered in the case of M/s. Trianz Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (supra). Since
this comparable company i.e. Infosys Ltd. stands excluded on merit, this
ground of revenue's appeal is rejected.
21\. Regarding ground nos. 3,4 and 5 of the revenue's appeal, it was submitted
by ld. DR of revenue that foreign exchange loss / gain should not be
considered as operating gain / loss. As against this, the ld. AR of assessee
submitted that the same is operating gain / loss. At this juncture, it was
pointed out by the bench that if the exchange fluctuation gain / loss is in
relation to turnover of the present year then only the same can be considered
for TP analysis of the present year because for TP analysis, we are not
comparing the operating profit of the tested party and of the comparables and
we are comparing the profit percentage of tested party and that of comparable
companies and for that purpose, only those gain / loss should be considered in
the numerator if the corresponding turnover is forming part of denominator.
The bench pointed out that this issue was decided by CIT(A) as per paras 12.5
to 12.5.3 and in these paras, there is IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page
36 of 40 no discussion about this aspect as to whether exchange fluctuation
gain / loss is in respect of current year's turnover or of earlier year's
turnover. The bench put out a proposition that this matter may be restored
back to the file of CIT(A) for fresh decision after examining this aspect as
to whether such foreign exchange gain / loss is in connection with the
turnover of the present year of or an earlier year and if it is found that the
gain / loss is in respect of present year then the same can be considered for
TP analysis and if it is for earlier year then it should not be considered for
TP analysis. Both sides agreed to this proposition put forward by the bench.
22\. We have considered the rival submissions and gone through the orders of
authorities below. We find that ld. CIT(A) has followed various Tribunal
orders and held that foreign exchange fluctuation gain / loss is operating
profit / operating loss. To this extent, there is no quarrel but whether such
foreign exchange fluctuation gain / loss should be considered for the purpose
of TP analysis, it has to be ascertained as to whether such gain / loss is in
respect of current year's turnover or in respect of earlier year's turnover
because for TP analysis, we are not comparing the operating profit alone of
the tested party with the operating profit of the comparables. We are
comparing the profit percentage of tested party with profit percentage of
comparable companies. The profit percentage is worked out on the basis of
operating profit divided by turnover and hence, if any part of the operating
profit is computed by considering the item of income or loss, which is not
arising out of the present year's turnover, it will give absurd result because
such exchange fluctuation gain / loss will increase or decrease the operating
profit being the numerator but the corresponding turnover will not be part of
denominator if the same is not in relation to the current year's turnover.
Hence we set aside the order of CIT(A) on this issue and restore back the
matter to his file for fresh decision in the light of above discussion after
providing reasonable opportunity of being heard to both sides. Accordingly,
ground nos. 3, 4 and 5 are allowed for statistical purposes.
23\. Regarding ground no. 6, it was submitted by ld. DR of revenue that the
only grievance of the assessee before CIT(A) was regarding this that the AO /
TPO have erred in law as well as facts by rejecting certain comparable IT(TP)A
Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 37 of 40 companies identified by the assessee
using export earnings greater than 75% of the sales as a comparability
criterion and this issue was raised by assessee before CIT(A) as per ground
no. 12.(c) and this issue was decided by CIT(A) against the assessee and for
that, the assessee is in appeal before the Tribunal. She drawn our attention
to Para nos. 15.1.8 to 15.1.9 of the order of CIT(A) and submitted that the
ld. CIT(A) has suo moto decided the issue and directed the TPO that in ITES
sector also, the export sales filter of 75% should be applied as has been
applied in software development sector and therefore, this is not proper. The
ld. AR of assessee supported the order of CIT (A). He also accepted that this
was not the grievance raised by assessee before CIT(A).
24\. We have considered the rival submissions. First of all, we reproduce Para
nos. 15.1.8 to 16 of the order of CIT(A) for ready reference. These are as
under.
> "15.1.8. I find this action of the TPO arbitrary in the sense that different
> criteria cannot be applied under the same set of circumstances. The export
> earning filter has been applied to exclude predominantly domestic companies
> or comparables catering to the domestic market. The reasons provided by the
> TPO are the same while applying this filter without providing the basis for
> alteration from 75% to 25% in the two sectors.
> 15.1.9. As per the TPO, both sectors are deriving income from the US market
> exclusively, But the distinction as to why the filter should be altered in
> case of both sectors has not been clarified by the TPO. It is not open to
> the TPO to blow hot & cold under the same set of circumstances. Therefore,
> it is directed that the TPO shall apply export sales filter in the BPO
> sector as has been applied to the software sector i.e. to say only companies
> having export sales less than 75% of operating revenues shall be excluded.
> It is ordered accordingly.
> 15.2.(ii) Turnover filter:
> 15.2.1. Not pressed by the assessee's representative.
> 15.3.(iii) Functional dissimilarity :
> 15.3.1 In light of my reasoning in software sector, functionality of all the
> comparables are examined as under :-
> Sl.No. Company Name Function Accentia Technologies It offers services and
> solutions for  1. Ltd. Healthcare Receivables Cycle IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
> 1294/Bang/2014  Page 38 of 40 Management and Software Products for Business
> Process Outsourcing.
                                         Customer        support    services,
                                         Procurement solution, financial
               Aditya Birla Minacs
       2.                                solutions,     customer     support
               Worldwide Ltd.
                                         services, information management
                                         and infrastructure management.
                                         Provider of outsourced solutions in
               Allsec Technologies       customer engagement, sale &
       3.
               Ltd.                      retention and quality assurance for
                                         business.
                                         Provides     translation   services,
                                         Localisation and DTP services,
       4.      Cosmic Global Ltd.
                                         Transcription outsourcing business,
                                         Accounting operations.
                                         Data content management, data
                                         analysis and process improvement
                                         task, trade support and validation,
       5.      Eclerx Services Ltd.
                                         settlements and clearing, asset
                                         servicing, risk management and
                                         reconciliation.
               Informed                  Development & assessment of
       6.
               Technologies Ltd.         telecommunication, network.
                                         Business     platforms,   customer
                                         service outsourcing, finance and
       7.      Infosys BPO Limited       accounting,      human     resource
                                         outsourcing,       legal    process
                                         outsourcing.
                                         Infrastructure management and
                                         modernisation, end-user services,
       8.      Microland Ltd.            Cloud Computing, Collaboration
                                         and Mobility.
> 15.3.2. In view of the aforesaid, I see no reason to exclude any further com
> parables on the ground of functional dissimilarity. as the business of the
> comparables vis-Ã -vis the assessee company falls within the same sector.
> Thus. the 08 comparables mentioned above shall form the final comparables on
> which the ALP adjustment needs to be carried out by the TPO. This is subject
> to the earlier ruling with respect to application of export earning filter
> which may include some of the assessee's comparables. It is ordered
> accordingly.
16\. In the result, it is ordered that the TPO shall apply export earning
filter at 75% in the ITES sector & include comparables of the assessee and
shall include forex gain/loss in operating margins as directed in the software
sector, accordingly. The assessee's appeal stands allowed IT(TP)A Nos.1285 &
1294/Bang/2014  Page 39 of 40 in part."
25\. We find that there is no finding of CIT(A) as to which comparables are
affected by change in the export earnings filter in ITES segment. Hence it
amounts to setting aside of the matter to the AO and as per the provisions of
section 251(1A) of IT Act, the CIT(A) can confirm, reduce or enhance the
assessment but he cannot remand the matter to the file of AO. Hence on this
issue, the order of CIT(A) is not sustainable and therefore, we reverse the
same and restore to the order of AO on this issue. Accordingly ground nos. 6
and 7 of revenue's appeal are allowed.
26\. Regarding ground nos. 8 and 9 of revenue's appeal, it was agreed by both
sides that this issue is covered in favour of the assessee by the judgment of
Hon'ble Karnataka High Court rendered in the case of CIT Vs. Tata Elxsi Ltd.
as reported in 349 ITR 98. As per this ground, this is the grievance of the
revenue that telecommunication charges / freight charges incurred in foreign
currency and reduced by the AO from export turnover should not be reduced from
total turnover for the purpose of computing deduction allowable u/s. 10A of IT
Act. As per the judgment of Hon'ble Karnataka High Court rendered in the case
of CIT Vs. Tata Elxsi Ltd. (supra), it was held that total turnover is sum
total of export turnover and domestic turnover and if an amount is reduced
from export turnover then the total turnover also goes down by the same amount
automatically. Respectfully following this judgment of Hon'ble Karnataka High
Court, we decline to interfere in the order of CIT(A) on this issue. Ground
nos. 8 and 9 of revenue's appeal are rejected.
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
                                                   By order
                                               Assistant Registrar,
                                          Income Tax Appellate Tribunal,
                                                  Bangalore.
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
               Bangalore.
                                                    Bangalore - 560 093.
                                                    PAN: AABCI0762M
                      APPELLANT                         RESPONDENT
                                           &
                             IT (TP) A No. 1294/Bang/2014
                              Assessment Year: 2009-10
                                     (By Assessee)
                                  :
                                 Shri Pravin Kishore Prasad and
             Assessee by
                                 Shri Umashankar Gautam, Advocates
             Revenue by       : Smt. Kabila .H, JCIT (DR)
             Date of hearing           :  26.03.2019
             Date of Pronouncement     :  25.04.2019
                                         ORDER
Per Shri A.K. Garodia, Accountant Member These are cross appeals filed by the
assessee and revenue and these are directed against the order of ld. CIT
(A)-IV, Bangalore dated 19.08.2014 for Assessment Year 2009-10.
2\. The grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal as per revised and
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
               Bangalore.
                                                    Bangalore - 560 093.
                                                    PAN: AABCI0762M
                      APPELLANT                         RESPONDENT
                                           &
                             IT (TP) A No. 1294/Bang/2014
                              Assessment Year: 2009-10
                                     (By Assessee)
                                  :
                                 Shri Pravin Kishore Prasad and
             Assessee by
                                 Shri Umashankar Gautam, Advocates
             Revenue by       : Smt. Kabila .H, JCIT (DR)
             Date of hearing           :  26.03.2019
             Date of Pronouncement     :  25.04.2019
                                         ORDER
Per Shri A.K. Garodia, Accountant Member These are cross appeals filed by the
assessee and revenue and these are directed against the order of ld. CIT
(A)-IV, Bangalore dated 19.08.2014 for Assessment Year 2009-10.
2\. The grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal as per revised and
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
               Bangalore.
                                                    Bangalore - 560 093.
                                                    PAN: AABCI0762M
                      APPELLANT                         RESPONDENT
                                           &
                             IT (TP) A No. 1294/Bang/2014
                              Assessment Year: 2009-10
                                     (By Assessee)
                                  :
                                 Shri Pravin Kishore Prasad and
             Assessee by
                                 Shri Umashankar Gautam, Advocates
             Revenue by       : Smt. Kabila .H, JCIT (DR)
             Date of hearing           :  26.03.2019
             Date of Pronouncement     :  25.04.2019
                                         ORDER
Per Shri A.K. Garodia, Accountant Member These are cross appeals filed by the
assessee and revenue and these are directed against the order of ld. CIT
(A)-IV, Bangalore dated 19.08.2014 for Assessment Year 2009-10.
2\. The grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal as per revised and
concise grounds of appeal are as under.
> "1. That the order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax
> (Appeals) - IV, Bangalore ('CIT(A)'), to the extent prejudicial to the
> Appellant, is bad in law and liable to be quashed. [corresponding to ground
> 1]
> 2\. That the learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the rejection of IT(TP)A
> Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 2 of 40 Transfer Pricing ('TP')
> documentation by the Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax - V [Learned Transfer
> Pricing Officer ('TPO')]/ Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, Circle 11(4)
> (Learned Assessing Officer ('AO')] an in making an adjustment to the
> transfer price of the Appellant in respect of its software development
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
               Bangalore.
                                                    Bangalore - 560 093.
                                                    PAN: AABCI0762M
                      APPELLANT                         RESPONDENT
                                           &
                             IT (TP) A No. 1294/Bang/2014
                              Assessment Year: 2009-10
                                     (By Assessee)
                                  :
                                 Shri Pravin Kishore Prasad and
             Assessee by
                                 Shri Umashankar Gautam, Advocates
             Revenue by       : Smt. Kabila .H, JCIT (DR)
             Date of hearing           :  26.03.2019
             Date of Pronouncement     :  25.04.2019
                                         ORDER
Per Shri A.K. Garodia, Accountant Member These are cross appeals filed by the
assessee and revenue and these are directed against the order of ld. CIT
(A)-IV, Bangalore dated 19.08.2014 for Assessment Year 2009-10.
2\. The grounds raised by the assessee in its appeal as per revised and
concise grounds of appeal are as under.
> "1. That the order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax
> (Appeals) - IV, Bangalore ('CIT(A)'), to the extent prejudicial to the
> Appellant, is bad in law and liable to be quashed. [corresponding to ground
> 1]
> 2\. That the learned CIT(A) erred in upholding the rejection of IT(TP)A
> Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014  Page 2 of 40 Transfer Pricing ('TP')
> documentation by the Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax - V [Learned Transfer
> Pricing Officer ('TPO')]/ Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, Circle 11(4)
> (Learned Assessing Officer ('AO')] an in making an adjustment to the
> transfer price of the Appellant in respect of its software development
27\. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is partly allowed.
28\. In the combined result, both the appeal of the assessee and revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the date mentioned on the caption page.
           Sd/-                                            Sd/-
    (LALIET KUMAR)                                   (ARUN KUMAR GARODIA)
    Judicial Member                                     Accountant Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 25th April, 2019.
    /MS/
                                    IT(TP)A Nos.1285 & 1294/Bang/2014
                          Page 40 of 40
    Copy to:
    1. Appellant    4. CIT(A)
    2. Respondent   5. DR, ITAT, Bangalore
    3. CIT          6. Guard file
