Custom, Excise & Service Tax Tribunal
4\. Whether Order Is To Be ... vs Cce, Hyderabad Ii on 17 February, 2016
    IN THE CUSTOMS, EXCISE & SERVICE TAX
    APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
    1st FLOOR, HMWSSB BUILDING,
    REAR PORTION, KHAIRATABAD,
    HYDERABAD  500 004
    LARGER BENCH
    DATE OF HEARING : 07-08/01/2016.
    DATE OF DECISION : 17/02/2016.
    Customs Appeal No. 573-575, 487-489, 491, 556, 473 of 2006 and 463 of 2004
    [Arising out of the Order-in-Original No. 17/2006-CUS dated 18/08/2006 and 19/2006-CUS dated 19/09/2006 passed by The Commissioner of Central Excise, Hyderabad  II and Order-in-Original No. 01/Appr./Commr./2004-05 dated 27/04/2004 passed by Commissioner of Central Excise, Goa.]
    For Approval and signature :
    Honble Shri Justice G. Raghuram, President
    Honble Ms. Sulekha Beevi C.S., Member (Judicial)
    Honble Shri B. Ravichandran, Member (Technical)
    1.	Whether Press Reporters may be allowed to see	:
    	the Order for publication as per Rule 27 of the
    	CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982?
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
    	the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for 
    	publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3.	Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair		:
    	copy of the order?
    4.	Whether order is to be circulated to the 			:
    	Department Authorities?
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.	]
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]                                   Appellants 
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    M/s L.G. Electronics		]
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.]
    	Versus
    CCE, Hyderabad  II                                                Respondent
    	and
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.					    Appellant 
    	Versus
    CCE, Goa								 Respondent 
    Appearance
    Shri V. Sridharan, Senior Advocate  for the appellants.
    Shri Mohd. Yousaf, Authorized Representative (DR)  for the Respondent.
    CORAM : Honble Shri Justice G. Raghuram, President
         Honble Ms. Sulekha Beevi C.S., Member (Judicial)
         Honble Shri B. Ravichandran, Member (Technical)
    Final No. 30110-30119/2016 Dated : 17/02/2016
    Per. B. Ravichandran :-
    APPEALS FOR CONSIDERATION :-
          The matter relating to valuation of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) was examined and by decided two co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal.
          Bangalore Bench of the Tribunal decided nine appeals by Final order Nos. C/760-768/2008  CU (DB) dated 09/7/2008. The details of appeals and outcome are as below :
    Sl.
    No.
    Appeal No.
    Name of the appellant 
    Outcome as per final order
    1.
    C/573/2006
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.
    Appeal rejected
    2.
    C/574/2006
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D. of appellant at Sl. No. 1
    Penalty reduced
    3.
    C/575/2006
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P. of appellant at Sl. No. 1
    Penalty reduced
    4.
    C/487/2006
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.
    Appeal rejected
    5.
    C/488/2006
    Shgri Balasubramanian, V.P. of appellant at Sl. No. 4
    Penalty reduced
    6.
    C/489/2006
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D. of appellant at Sl. No. 4
    Penalty reduced
    7.
    C/491/2006
    M/s L.G. Electronics
    Penalties set aside
    8.
    C/556/2006
    M/s L.G. Electronics
    Penalties set aside
    9.
    C/473/2006
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.
    Penalty set aside
    Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal decided appeal No. C/463/2004 filed by M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd. by final order No. A/131/WZB/2007/CSTB/C.I. dated 22/02/2007. The Tribunal allowed the appeal in full.
          Revenue filed civil appeal No. 5007/2007 in the Honble Supreme Court against the final order of the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal. The appellant  assessee filed six civil appeals Nos. 6718-6720/ 2008 and 6722-6724/2008 against the final order dated 09/7/2008 of Bangalore Bench of Tribunal. These civil appeals were decided by the Honble Supreme Court on 15/10/2015. After having considered the two CESTAT decisions mentioned above the Honble Apex Court observed and ruled as under :-
          Having regard to the aforesaid situation, it is suggested by Mr. S.K. Bagaria, learned senior counsel appearing for the assessees, that better course of action would be to send the matters back to the CESTAT which should be decided by a Larger Bench.
          We may accept the aforesaid proposal but while doing so it has to be necessarily directed that the evidence which has surfaced later on and relied upon by the Department in other show cause notices shall be considered as common evidence in all these cases. 
          Accordingly, the impugned decisions of the CESTAT in these appeals are set aside. The matter is remitted back to the CESTAT with request to the President, CESTAT to constitute a Larger Bench and decides the matters afresh on the lines specified above. We would appreciate if the Larger Bench decides these matters within a period of one year from the date of receipt of the copy of this order.
    2.	Accordingly, this Larger Bench came to be constituted to hear and decide these appeals afresh.
    Background
facts of the case :-
The main appellants in the case  M/s Surana Telecom Ltd. and Bhagyanagar
Metals Ltd. imported Fixed Wireless Terminals (FWT), a type of Cellular phones
which are operated under CDMA Technology. These imports were form M/s L.G.
Electronics, Korea and M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd., China. Alongwith
these phones the appellants also imported CD ROMS and filed B/Es separately
for phones and CD-ROMS claiming phones as hardware portion of FWTs and CD-
ROMS as Software Portion of the said FWTs. A dispute arose on the nature of
goods imported, mainly with reference to split up of hardware and software
portions of FWTs for assessment purposes. Customs duty is payable on phones
but exempted on imported software. Revenue conducted detailed follow up
investigations and came to the conclusion that the Software claimed to have
been contained in the CD ROMS are already pre-loaded in the phones and there
is no software as goods to be assessed separately for claiming exemption.
As earlier noticed, the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal had decided that the
inclusion of the value of the software in the value of the telephones imported
by the appellants herein cannot be sustained. The Bangalore Bench, which
decided another set of appeals separately, however came to the conclusion that
the software necessary for functioning of the telephone is already embedded in
it. Hence, there is no separate software for assessment and valuation adopted
for the phones. The adjudication order passed by the Commissioner was upheld.
It is to be noted that the material evidence collected during detailed
investigations by Revenue were available only during proceedings before
Bangalore Bench. As directed by the Honble Supreme Court, while disposing of
the civil appeals, the evidence on record must be considered to decide all the
appeals, by us.
Submissions on behalf of appellants :-
Learned Senior Advocate Shri V. Sridharan, appearing on behalf of all the
appellants explained the nature of WLL Cellular telephones and the argued that
appellants are right in their claim for exemption of software imported by
them.
The whole thrust of the argument of the learned Counsel is based on
applicability of Note 6 of Chapter 85 of the First Schedule to the Customs
Tariff Act, 1975 to imports made by them. The relevant portion of the said
note states :
Records, tapes and other media of heading 85.23 or 85.24 remain classified in
those headings, when they are presented with the apparatus for which they are
intended.
The contention is that the software intended for FWT phones are loaded in the
Flash memory unit which is to be considered as a media for such software and
to be classified under CTH 85.24. The exemption to software is available even
if it is preloaded in the apparatus. Learned Counsel accepted that in
proposing this argument they are not concerned with the software loaded in CDs
presented with the apparatus at the time of imports. As such the media, here
the information technology software, claimed for exemption is the Flash memory
card which is part of main printed circuit board of the telephone apparatus,
not the CDs imported and presented with these telephones.
This is entirely a new matrix of factual and legal propositions not advanced
earlier in any proceedings before the lower authorities. This Tribunal nor in
the appeal before the Honble Supreme Court. As such, admission of such
entirely new propositions, claimed on facts, is itself to be decided. Learned
Counsel submits that Revenue is fully aware of the fact, and it was Revenues
claim that the software preloaded or embedded in the telephone apparatus
cannot be considered separately and the instrument as a whole has to be
assessed and taxed as hardware. It is his contention that in order to rebutt
the said assertion of Revenue, now they are specifically pleading the fact of
software being embedded in the Flash memory attached to the main Printed
Circuit Board (PCB) of the telephone apparatus. Such software is exempt as the
media (memory unit) is presented with the instrument (FWT) itself.
Shri V. Sridharan presented his substantive contention with special emphasis
on the above-mentioned point. His elaborate arguments can conveniently be
summarized as below :-
(a) Even with out reference to Note 6 of Chapter 85, the Honble Supreme Court
in PSI Data Systems Ltd. vs. CCE reported in 1997 (89) E.L.T. 3 (S.C.) held
that the value of software is not includable in the value of Computer. Post
01/3/86, when Note 6 came into force, the CESTAT in Tata Unisys Ltd. vs. CCE,
Bombay reported in 1994 (73) E.L.T. 96 (Tribunal) held that Chapter notes are
relevant for the purpose of classification alone and not for valuation. This
decision also was reversed by the Honble Supreme Court in PSI Data Systems
Ltd. (supra);
(b) The Honble Supreme Court in CCE, Pondicherry vs. Acer India Ltd. reported
in 2004 (172) E.L.T. 289 (S.C.) specifically rejected the essentiality test
and held the software installed inside Computer should be separately
classified under heading 85.24 and not alongwith the Computer. As per HSN
Explanatory Notes recorded media (Software) assembled with constituent part of
machine of Heading 84.69 to 84.72 fall under heading 85.24 ;
(c) Sprint R.P.G. India Ltd. vs. CC-I, Delhi reported in 2000 (116) E.L.T. 6
(S.C.) held that the software contained in hard disk will fall in Heading
85.24 even if such hard disk is a unit of Computer. The software retains its
identity as a software in such situation also. The classification of software
under Heading 85.24 even if installed in the hard disk within the Computer was
affirmed in Commissioner vs. Barber Ship Management (I) Pvt. Ltd. reported in
2002 (144) E.L.T. A293 (SC) ;
(d) CC, Chennai vs. Hewlett Packard India Sales (P) Ltd. reported in 2007
(215) E.L.T. 484 (S.C.) held that the value of hard disk drive is includable
in the value of laptop, but value of the software contained in hard disk is
not includable in the value of laptop, which should be assessed separately
under Heading 85.24. The Telecom software now under consideration is covered
under the category of Computer software ;
(e) In the present case the software resides in the Flash memory, which is a
mere storage device and, hence, should be assessed separately ;
(f) The decision of the CESTAT in Bharti Airtel Ltd. vs. CC, Bangalore
reported in 2012 (286) E.L.T. 270 (Tri.  Bang.) is not good law. The decision
of Honble Supreme Court in Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. vs. CCE, Ahmedabad
reported in 2006 (194) E.L.T. 129 (S.C.) is not applicable to the present
case.
(g) There is no interest liability in the present case. There is no provision
for payment of interest on differential duty assessed on finalization of
provisional assessment under Section 18 (3) of the Customs Act, 1962. Interest
under Section 28 AB is not applicable to the present case. The legal position
is settled by the ruling in Jaswal Neco Ltd. vs. CC, Visakhapatnam reported in
2015 (322) E.L.T. 561 (S.C.).
(h) The redemption fine imposed in the present case is legally not
sustainable. The imported goods were neither seized nor released under any
bond. The bond referred to in the original order is for provisional assessment
under Section 18 and there is no bond for provisional release of goods under
Section 110A.
(i) There is no case for imposing penalty on the appellant under Section 114A.
In the present case, the assessments were provisional and the finalization is
in terms of Section 18. Section 114A will come into play only when duty demand
is under Section 28. As the question involved in the present case involves
pure interpretation of statutory provisions there is no case for mis-
declaration or suppression of facts. Hence, no penalty is imposable.
Submissions on behalf of the Revenue :-
The learned AR Shri Mohd. Yousaf contested strongly the averments by the
appellants. First of all, he objected to the appellants taking a completely
new ground in the present proceedings regarding software purportedly contained
in the hardware and applicability of Note 6 of Chapter 85. This proposition
was never urged either before the Adjudicating Authorities, different Benches
of the Tribunal or even before the Honble Supreme Court when these cases were
examined and decided. When bills of entry were filed in respect of the
imported CDMA mobile phones, the appellants never claimed that the separate
goods is software falling under Heading 85.24. Only CDMA mobile phones were
declared with a split up value for hardware portion and software portion
of the phones. The learned AR urged that the claim of the appellants is a
wholly fresh assertion i.e., that there were two kinds of goods falling under
different headings with separate description for assessment. This claim is
made for the first time. He pleaded that this claim requires to be rejected
outright.
On the merits of the case, the learned AR made elaborate submissions. His
submissions are summarized as below :-
(a) Note 6 of Chapter 85 requires that the media as goods to be presented with
the apparatus. In the present case, the Cell Phones were not presented with
any separate media. The appellants earlier claimed that the software was in
CD-ROMs. Now they are claiming that the software is in the flash memory unit
which is part of the printed circuit board inside the phones. The claim of the
appellant that the software was available with the flash drive as media, which
is made for the first time, is also not correct ;
(b) It is not the case now that the equipment imported (CDMA WLL Cell phones)
were presented with any media containing software. Note 6 will not apply. All
the case laws relied upon by the appellants are in the context of computer
hardware/software. The software in those cases were carried in a hard disk or
other media and are also available separately for sale. In the present case
there is no separately identified software which can be treated as goods in
any media.
(c) The software in the present case is a basic software which gives the phone
its identity and functionality. It is pre-loaded in the hardware and the
appellants attempt to show separate import of software through CDs is simply a
device to escape Customs duty on the full value of the imported item  WLL
Cell Phones. The earlier claim of software imported in CD is only to avail the
otherwise ineligible exemption for the purported software as goods.
(d) The Tribunal in Bharti Airtel Ltd. (supra) elaborately examined the issue
of valuation of pre-loaded software. In that case, software was parallelly
imported in the CDs also. The various case laws which were relied by the
appellant now were examined by the Tribunal in the said decision. The
essentiality criteria as well as the applicability of Note 6 were examined.
The Tribunal clearly distinguished the ratio of Vodafone Essar Gujarat Ltd.
vs. CC (Imports), Mumbai reported in 2009 (237) E.L.T. 458 (Tri.  Mum.).
(e) Reliance can be placed on the ratio laid down by the Honble Supreme Court
in Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. (supra).
(f) Regarding the applicability of interest it was submitted that the interest
is compensatory in character and reliance was placed on the decision in
Commissioner of Trade Tax, Lucknow vs. Kanhai Ram Thekedar reported in 2005
(185) E.L.T. 3 (S.C.), Honble Allahabad High Court decision in BHEL vs. CC &
CE, Kanpur reported in 2015 (323) E.L.T. 417 (All.) and Honble Karnataka High
Court decision in CC, Bangalore vs. Pierre Colsun Inc. reported in 2014 (300)
E.L.T. 207 (Kar.).
(g) Regarding imposition of redemption fine in respect of goods which are not
available for confiscation, reliance was placed on the Honble Supreme Courts
decision in Weston Components Ltd. vs. CC, New Delhi reported in 2000 (115)
E.L.T. 278 (S.C.).
Points for decision :-
We have heard both the sides at considerable length. On a careful
consideration of the factual, legal and technological issues, the main point
for decision is whether there are two distinct goods  hardware part of fixed
wireless phone and the software part of the said phone  for Customs duty
assessment. In other words, is there, as claimed by the appellants, an
identifiable goods as software in a media falling under Heading 85.24 of the
Customs Tariff, in the imports by the appellants for the purpose of Customs
Valuation and assessment.
There are other connected points also for decision, namely, interest liability
of the appellants, sustainability of redemption fine and penalties imposed in
these cases.
Discussion and findings :-
Before proceeding with examination of the merits of the case, it is necessary
to address the preliminary objection raised by Revenue regarding admissibility
of a totally new plea which was never raised in any of the proceedings till
date. As noted earlier in this order, the appellants put up their defence
mainly on the ground of applicability of Note 6 of Chapter 85 to their case;
to consider the Flash memory unit inside the WLL Cell Phones imported by them
as a media carrying the software and accordingly eligible for exemption. The
learned Senior Counsel for the appellants admitted that they are making this
submission for the first time and are abandoning earlier arguments before the
lower Authorities as well as the Tribunal, i.e., regarding the CD-ROMS
contained software for the WLL Phone, being eligible for clearance without
payment of duty.
On the preliminary objection, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that the
present plea is taken by the appellants to counter allegation of Revenue that
pre-loaded software cannot be considered for separate assessment as a software
in media. He further pleaded that there is no legal bar in taking a fresh
ground before the Tribunal. He relied on the decision in Mahalaxmi Textile
Mills Ltd. reported in AIR 68 (SC) 101. In the said case, the Honble Supreme
Court held that the right of the assessee to relief is not restricted to the
plea raised by him. The learned Counsel while admitting that the present plea
though inconsistent with the plea raised before Departmental Authorities and
Tribunal, is essential to determine the eligibility of the appellants to
assessment of software as claimed by them. Since this plea raises a core
issue, examination of the same is vital to the outcome of the case.
We find that in all preceding proceedings, the appellants were forcefully
claiming that software contained in the CD ROMS were entitled for separate
assessment and the value apportioned for such software is exempt from Customs
Duty. Now, the plea is that the said software for which they are still
claiming exemption is stored and carried in the Flash memory unit in the
printed circuit board inside the imported WLL Cell Phones. It is apparent that
the present plea is totally inconsistent with the pleas made in the first
round of litigation up to the Honble Supreme Court. However, considering that
such assertion is based on legal principles for classification (Note 6 of
Chapter 85 and other related principles for classification) we find it fit and
proper to consider this plea on merit for a decision. As the present
proceedings is to look at all the available evidences and legal provisions
applicable afresh, it is necessary to consider this plea, for a proper
resolution of the dispute.
In order to examine appellants plea regarding eligibility of software
component for separate assessment, it is necessary to understand the nature
and functionality of the imported goods  fixed wireless telephones.
CDMA Fixed Wireless Telephone :-
It is necessary to understand the actual nature and functioning of the FWTs
(WLL Phones) relevant to this case. We have seen the instrument, perused the
user manual and service manual. FWT is supplied with main unit with handset,
dipole antenna, back up battery, AC/DC Power adopter and power cord.
FWT and WLL are generic terms for radio based telecommunication technologies.
The CDMA WLL network consists of WLL system, BTS (Base Station Transmission
sub-system) and FWT (Fixed Wireless Telephone). The WLL system is directly
connected with LE (Local Exchange).
Relevant to decide the claim made by appellant regarding nature, tariff
classification and thereby the exemption as available to software contained in
other media (Note 6 of Chapter 85) is the nature of the memory unit which is
part of the Internal RF circuit of the telephone. Learned Counsel has shown a
sample of the said printed circuit board and claimed that the Flash memory
unit which is attached to the PCB is to be considered as a storage media of
the software. Such software should therefore be considered as a separate
goods, though contained in and presented as a part of PCB inside the
telephone. The exemption as available to software would thus be eligible to
the same.
The block diagram will show the location of the memory unit in the PCB (U 11 
Flash Memory). This memory unit is part of the digital/voice processing unit
which in turn is a part of Internal RF circuit of the telephone. The memory
unit is composed of Flash memory for storing main program activating MSM
(Mobile Station Modem) and storing user service related data and RF
calibration data, and SRAM for reading and writing data. The Flash Memory has
a 1M X 16 CMOS concurrent Read/Write manufactured with high CMOS Super Flash
Technology.
NATURE OF MEMORY UNIT :
The Service Manual of the telephone gives the following description of the
memory unit :
The unit is composed of Flash Memory for storing main program activating MSM
and storing user service related data and RF calibration data, and SRAM for
reading and writing data. The Flash Memory has a 1M X 16 CMOS Concurrent
Read/Write manufactured with high CMOS Super Flash technology.
This memory is dual bank architecture for concurrent read/write operation.
Bank one is stored main program activating MSM Bank Two is stored non-volatile
data such as the identification number of terminal, user service related data
and RF calibration data.
This memory is selected by_ROM_CS1.
_ROM_CS1 is mapped to the Flash Memory address space.
There are two SRAMs and each has 256K X 8bit space. Data generated during the
terminal operation are stored temporarily in SRAM. SRAM is controlled by a
_RAMCS1_and_RAM_CS2 signals.
It is to be noted that CMOS refers to complementary metal-oxide-semi conductor
technology for integrated circuits. SRAM refers to static random access memory
which is a type of semi conductor memory that uses bi-stable latching
circuitry to store each bit. These are used for storing volatile/temporary
data. Memory unit (Bank two) also stores non-volatile data such as the ID
number of the phone, user service related data and RF caliberation data.
Normally, there are two categories of non-volatile data storage  electrically
addressed systems (read-only memory) and mechanically addressed systems (hard
disks, optic discs, magnetic tapes etc.). In respect of FWT circuit as in the
present case, this non-volatile memory (Read Only Memory) stores data which is
hard-wired as a Firmware. Such software is closely tied to specific hardware.
From the above technical details it is clear that the memory unit, which is a
part of ARM7TDI Micro processor sub-system, is clearly an integral part of the
internal circuit of the telephone. This contains both volatile (temporary) and
non-volatile (permanent) data, without which activation of the phone is not
possible. It is not correct to call such memory unit as a storage media for
software. The applicability of Note 6 depends on availability of a
identifiable, separate media. From the technical analysis above it cannot be
said that there is any identifiable, separate media in the present case.
Relevance and applicability of Note 6 to Chapter 85 of the Schedule to Customs
Tariff Act, 1975.
Note 6 to Chapter 85 of the Schedule to Customs Tariff Act, 1975 as it stood
prior to 01/1/2002 is reproduced hereunder :
6. Records, tapes and other media of heading No. 85.23 or 85.24 remain
classified in those headings, whether or not they are presented with the
apparatus for which they are intended.
Note 6 to Chapter 85 of the Schedule Customs Tariff Act, 1975 w.e.f. 01/1/2002
is reproduced hereunder:
6. Records, tapes and other media of heading No. 85.23 or 85.24 remain
classified in those headings when presented with the apparatus for which they
are intended.
This Note does not apply to such media when they are presented with articles
other than the apparatus for which they are intended.
There is no remote possibility for calling the memory unit in the present
case as one of the media covered by above note. The memory unit is clearly
part of the circuit board of the telephone and more appropriately covered
under Tariff heading 85.42.
Tariff Heading 85.42 covers Electronic Integrated Circuits whether or not
combined with memories. Such memories may be in the form of DRAMS SRAMS PROMS
EPROMS EEPROMS etc. Note 5 of Chapter 85 provides that the classification of
Articles defined in the said note, Headings 85.41 and 85.42 shall take
precedence over any other heading in this schedule which might cover them by
reference to, in particular, their function. The printed circuit board, a
sample of which we have examined during the hearing, is an integrated
component with various sub-circuits. As explained in the Block Diagram (supra)
various sub-circuits were assigned specific logic/work and are inter-connected
for the designed performance of the Cell Phones. The memory unit which
identifies the individual phone as well as contains essential basic command
are integrated to the said circuit board. These are not removable in normal
course or inter-changeable. As such, we find there is no separate media
containing software that can be presented with the phone and classified under
Tariff Heading 85.24. In other words, there are no two separate, distinct
goods for assessment, namely (a) CDMA Fixed Wireless Telephone and (b) a media
containing software presented with such telephone.
It is further to be noted that the claim of the appellant all along, till the
current proceedings, is that the software is contained in CD-ROM presented
separately along the FWT cell phones at the time of import. Now, for the first
time they have made this claim that the memory unit is in built and part of
the main circuit inside the phone; should be considered as a media for
classification and consequently eligible for exemption available to software.
We have critically examined this claim. The technical literature, nature of
the said memory unit and nature of the software contained in the memory unit
clearly rule out the possibility of calling this part of the printed circuit
board separately as a media for software. It is also not the claim of the
appellant that such media carrying the software for FWT phones is anywhere
available separately for trading.
It is the clearly admitted fact that the software/data loaded on the Flash
memory is specific to the user/customer. It contains caller ID and caller
block software. The phones imported have embedded software with required
parameters for its functioning.
Analysis of case laws :
Learned Senior Counsel as well as Revenue relied on various case laws in
support of their submissions. We are conscious of the fact that the present
dispute involves highly dynamic technological issues relating to the nature of
software, memory unit and telephone instrument. Hence, it is necessary before
analyzing and applying any rulings, to have the changing technologies and
concepts in mind.
The appellants relied on the decision of Honble Supreme Court in PSI Data
Systems Ltd. vs. CCE (supra) to submit that the value of the software is not
includable in the value of the WLL telephone. In the said case the apex Court
was dealing with tangible software of the nature of discs, floppies and CD-
ROMS. It was held that software sold along with the computer cannot be
included in the assessable value of the computer for the purposes of excise
duty. The Honble Supreme Court cited the example of cassette recorder and a
cassette to state that though cassette is required for functioning of cassette
recorder, these are two distinct articles. In the present case we are dealing
with pre-loaded/embedded software in the memory unit which is an integral part
of the Printed Circuit Board inside the Fixed Wireless phone. The reasoning
and ratio of the apex court in the above decision are not applicable to the
present case. In PSI Data Systems Ltd. vs. CCE (supra) it was not the
contention of the appellants that the firm or etched software that is
implanted into a computer is not to be taken into account in the valuation
thereof for the purpose of excise duty.
In Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. vs. CCE, Ahmedabad (supra) Honble Supreme
Court had occasion to examine the software programme which was claimed to be
in the recorded medium found inside the STD PCO unit. The Honble Supreme
Court held that the IC or a chip cannot be compared to a floppy which is
merely a storage device similar to an empty box or suitcase. The Apex court
observed :
22. The question which remains to be answered is whether a? programmed EPROM
is a recorded media under CH 85.24. It was argued before us that like CD-ROM
or a floppy which has a programme in it, EPROM is also a programmed device. It
was argued that blank EPROMs were purchased in which the appellant embodied
its programme and, therefore, the recorded EPROM constituted a recorded media
under tariff item 85.24.
23\. We do not find any merit in this argument. In a disk? operating system,
the basic input is stored in a ROM which is transferred to RAM when the system
gets started. The input/output routines are written into the IC at the
factory. The point to be noted is that the ICs which contain semiconductor
components like diodes etc. have got to be embedded in the mother board. The
ROM chip is fixed at the factory. The chip is fixed in the computer and only
then the programme works. Hence, this is basic difference between a mere
floppy which is a recorded media under CH 85.24 and the IC under CH 85.42. In
the former case, the program is a software because a floppy is a storage in
which software plays the dominant role whereas in the case of IC the programme
is embodied in the IC which can perform various functions only when fixed to
the mother board and is not removable like a floppy from VCR. According to
Encyclopaedia of Technology Terms by Whatis.com, an IC can function as an
amplifier, oscillator, timer, microprocessor etc. On the other hand, a floppy
disk is only a storage. Moreover the essential character of IC does not change
with the programme being embedded in the IC and hence the IC remains
classifiable under CH 85.42. This distinction is also brought out by tariff
items referred to above (See: Dictionary of Computing by Prentice Hall).
24\. An embedded system is a programmed hardware device.? Software written for
embedded systems, especially those without a disk drive is called Firmware,
the name for software embedded in hardware devices e.g. in ROM IC chips. Many
embedded systems avoid mechanical moving parts, such as, disk drives, switches
or buttons because they are unreliable as compared to ROM or Fast Memory IC
chips. It is kept outside the reach of humans. In embedded systems, the
software resides in ROM IC chips. Embedded systems are combination of hardware
and software like ATMs, Cellular telephones etc. In embedded systems, the
software resides in ROM IC Chip (See: www.answers.com). These chips are more
than mere carriers. Example of embedded system: microwave ovens, cell phones,
calculators etc. The Honble Supreme Court examined and distinguished their
earlier findings in PSI Data Systems Ltd. vs. CCE (supra) and Sprint R.P.G.
India Ltd. vs. CC-I, Delhi (supra) and held that in these cases the question
of integrated circuit did not arise and interpretation of entry 85.42 was not
at all considered.
The Apex Court further examined the decision in CCE, Pondicherry vs. Acer
India Ltd. (supra) and distinguished the same as not applicable to facts of
the case of STD  PCO telephones. It was held that the software loaded in the
IC Chip, constitutes the brain of the system. The levy is on the unit and
not on the programmed EPROM. The programme embedded is not easily removable.
Hence, the Apex court held that it will not fall in the category of recorded
media under Tariff item 85.24 and remains an IC under Tariff Item 85.42.
The present appeals deal with Fixed Wireless phones, with PCB inside, a part
of which is claimed as a recorded media for software. As examined with
technical literature earlier in the order, the logic/programme loaded in the
said memory unit is the fundamental necessity for the function of the FW
telephone. It cannot be compared to any optional or identifiable software as a
recorded media. Such software as available for computers are nowhere
comparable to the programme software pre-loaded in the memory chip of the PCB.
The appellants further relied on decisions of Honble Supreme Court in CC,
Chennai vs. Hewlett Packard India Sales (P) Ltd. (supra) and Commissioner vs.
Barber Ship Management (I) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Both these cases dealt with
classification of software installed in hard disk within computer. These
decisions are not applicable to the facts of the present case as already
explained above with specific reference to Honble Supreme Courts order in
Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. vs. CCE, Ahmedabad (supra). We are dealing with
a memory unit which is part of the main PCB of the telephone, not a hard disk
as a storage device/recorded media in a computer.
The decision of the Tribunal in Vodafone Essar Gujarat Ltd. vs. CC (Imports),
Mumbai (supra), relied upon by the appellant, is regarding software presented
in a recorded media in the form of tapes/CDs as well as in the hard disk
contained in the hardware. The software in that case is not embedded or
contained in ROM or EEPROM or in the microprocessor chips. The reasoning given
in the said decision is therefore inapplicable to the facts of the present
case.
As held by the Tribunal in Bharti Airtel Ltd. vs. CC, Bangalore (supra) and by
the Honble Supreme Court in Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. vs. CCE, Ahmedabad
(supra), in the matter of valuation, one of the important aspects to be taken
into account is the condition of the goods at the time they leave the factory.
The memory unit/chip is an essential part of PCB inside the telephone and is
an integral functional component. Hence, in the present case there are no two
items for valuation. The item of import is FWT and as such should be subjected
to classification and assessment accordingly.
Revenue relied on the decision of the Tribunal in Jabil Circuit India Pvt.
Ltd. vs. CCE, Pune reported in 2014 (307) E.L.T. 891 (Tri.  Mumbai), where
the Tribunal considered inclusion of the cost of software loaded in the Flash
memory chip inside the Set Top Boxes (STB). The Tribunal observed :
5.12 The next? question for consideration is with regard to the inclusion of
cost of software which were downloaded and incorporated in the flash memory
chip which was soldered onto the PCB of the STB. As per the literature
available, flash memory is EPROM (Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory) and
is an integrated chip. Thus, it is a rewriteable memory chip on which
programmes are written with an external programming device before being placed
on the PCBs. Thus, the flash memory is an integral part of the STB and
therefore, its cost would include the cost of software loaded on to it. It is
in this factual context, the decisions relied upon by the appellant have to be
examined. The appellant has relied on the decisions of the Apex Court in the
case of PSI Data Systems and Acer India Ltd. wherein it was held that software
has independent existence and has to be classified separately as a recorded
media falling under CETH 85.24. It is also contended that Note 6 to Chapter 85
also provides that records, tapes and other media of Heading 8523 or 8524
remain classified in those headings, when they are presented with the
apparatus for which they are intended. The said note was deleted with effect
from 1-1-2007 and no longer applies. The PSI Data System and Acer India Ltd.
cases dealt with a situation where computer software was stored in a Hard Disk
of the computer and the question arose whether the value of software could be
included in the value of the hardware. In that context, the Honble Apex Court
held that the value of software sold along with the computer is not includible
in the assessable value of the computer since there is a distinction between a
computer and its software. However, these decisions of the Honble Apex Court
later on came to be examined in the case of Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. by
the Honble Apex Court where the software was recorded on an EPROM. The
Honble Apex Court held that EPROM cannot be compared to a floppy which is
only a dump box. EPROM is basically an integrated circuit or chip and
classifiable under CETH 8542. Accordingly, it was held that the value of
software embedded in the programmed EPROM, which is an integral part of the
system is includible in the value of the goods supplied. In the case before
us, the flash memory is not the goods under clearance but it is the STB. The
memory chip has been soldered onto the PCB of the STB and is not easily
removable. The programme embedded in the flash memory is also not removable.
Therefore, it will not fall under the category of recorded media under CETH
8424. In view of the above position, the ratio of the decision of the Honble
Apex Court in the case of Anjaleem Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. would be more
appropriate and correct in the facts of the case before us. This ratio of the
Apex Court was followed by this Tribunal in the case of Avaya Global Connect
Ltd. (supra) wherein also it was held that software supplied along with
system, namely, EPROM, as embedded in the system becomes an integral part and
the value of such software is includible in the assessable value of the system
supplied. This Tribunal further held that when the software is embedded in the
system and becomes an integral part of the equipment, it is not a case of
charging duty on software but it is a case of charging duty on the equipment
which includes the value of such basic software. In the Hewlett Packard Sales
(P) Ltd. case, the Honble Apex Court once again reiterated the above view,
wherein it was held that pre-loaded operating systems software in the Hard
Disk Drive of the laptop forms an integral part of the laptop and therefore,
the cost of such pre-loaded software forms part of the value of the laptop.
Accordingly, the Honble Apex Court held that when a laptop is imported with
inbuilt preloaded operating system recorded on the hard disk, the said item
forms an integral part of the laptop and has to be classified as laptop and
not as computer software separately. Applying the ratio of these decisions to
the facts of the present case, it becomes abundantly clear that the cost of
software which has been loaded on to the flash memory which in turn has been
soldered onto the PCB of the STB forms an integral part of the STB and
therefore, the value of the STB shall include the value of such software
also.
Close analysis of the ratio and finding in the several precedents placed
before us, lead to the compelling conclusion that in the present case, the
Fixed Wireless phones as imported require to be classified and assessed as
phones with no segregation of value assignable to the software separately, as
claimed by the importers.
Interest Liability :-
The appellants contested the interest liability in the present case. The
imports took place in 2003-2004. The goods were assessed provisionally to duty
and were allowed to be cleared in terms of Section 18 of the Customs Act, 1962
on execution of PD Bonds. Learned Counsel for the appellants emphasized that
prior to 13/7/2006, there was no provision authorizing collection of interest
on differential duty arising on finalization of a provisional assessment. He
relied on the decision of Honble Supreme Court in Jaswal Neco Ltd. vs. CC,
Visakhapatnam (supra). Learned AR on the other hand submitted that interest
liability is compensatory in character and relied on the decision of Honble
Supreme Court in Commissioner of Trade Tax, Lucknow vs. Kanhai Ram Thekedar
(supra) and Honble Allahabad High Court decision in BHEL vs. CC & CE, Kanpur
(supra) and Honble Karnataka High Court decision in CC, Bangalore vs. Pierre
Colsun Inc. (supra).
We find that the impugned goods in both the sets of appeals were released on
payment of provisionally assessed duty in terms of Section 18 of the Customs
Act, 1962. Sub-Section (3) of the said Section was incorporated by Section 21
of the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2006. The said sub-Section reads as
under :-
Section 18 (3) :- The importer or exporter shall be liable to pay interest, on
any amount payable to the Central Government, consequent to the final
assessment order [or re-assessment order] under sub-section (2), at the rate
fixed by the Central Government under Section 28AB from the first day of the
month in which the duty is provisionally assessed till the date of payment
thereof.
We find that the Honble Supreme Court decision in Jaswal Neco Ltd. vs. CC,
Visakhapatnam (supra) ruled that levying interest can only be by a substantive
provision, thereby making it clear that such levy can only be prospective. The
Honble Apex Court referred approvingly to the decision of Honble Gujarat
High Court in CC (Preventive) vs. Goyal Traders reported in 2014 (302) E.L.T.
529 (Guj.) as under :-
17.?In the present case, we find that prior to introduction of sub-section
(3) of Section 18 of the Act in the present form, there was no liability to
pay interest on difference between finally assessed duty and provisionally
assessed duty upon payment of which the assessee may have cleared the goods.
It was only with effect from 13-7-2006 that such charging provision was
introduced in the statute. Upon introduction therefor such provision created
interest liability for the first time w.e.f. 13-7-2006. In absence of any
indication in the statute itself either specifically or by necessary
implication giving retrospective effect to such a statutory provision, we are
of the opinion that the same cannot be applied to cases of provisional
assessment which took place prior to the said date. Any such application would
in our view amount to retrospective operation of the law.
We also find that the Tribunal in Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. vs. CC,
Trichy reported in 2014 (311) E.L.T. 91 (Tri.  Chennai) held that in respect
of provisional assessment prior to 13/7/2006 interest would not be leviable by
invoking Section 18 (3) of the Customs Act, 1962.
We find that precedents referred to by Revenue are not applicable to the facts
of the present case. In Commissioner of Trade Tax, Lucknow vs. Kanhai Ram
Thekedar (supra) the Honble Supreme Court was dealing with need for issuing
separate demand for recovery of interest. In BHEL vs. CC & CE, Kanpur (supra)
the Honble Allahabad High Court was dealing with provisions of Rule 7 (4) of
Central Excise Rules, 2002 readwith Section 37 (2) of the Central Excise Act,
1944, the Honble High Court held that the interest is compensatory in nature
and becomes due when the duty payment was not made in time. In CC, Bangalore
vs. Pierre Colsun Inc. (supra), the Honble Karnataka High Court was dealing
with the obligation to pay interest in terms of Section 28AA. We find that in
the present case, there was provisional assessment which was later finalized.
Since, at the time of resorting to the provisional assessment there was no
statutory provision authorizing imposing of interest on the differential duty,
(the provision which was introduced w.e.f. 13/07/2006) there is no interest
liability in these cases.
Redemption fine :-
Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants contested confiscation of impugned
goods and imposition of redemption fine on the same. He submitted that there
was no seizure at all or ever, either of the phones or the CD-ROMS imported by
the appellants. Appellants had not executed any bond for provisional release
of any goods in terms of Section 110A of the Customs Act, 1962. He further
submitted that the bond mentioned by the Original Authority in his order dated
18/8/2006 is for the clearance of goods on payment of provisional duty. In the
present case in the absence of any seizure thereafter provision release of
goods under bond, confiscation or imposition of redemption fine are not
sustainable. We find that reliance placed by Revenue on the decision of
Honble Supreme Court in Weston Components Ltd. vs. CC, New Delhi (supra) is
misconceived. In the said case, there was a seizure and provisional release
against a bond, undertaking to produce the goods when called for. In such
situation, the Honble Supreme Court held that redemption fine can be imposed
if the goods are already cleared. Since, such release of goods is on execution
of bond such fine was justified. We find that the Honble Punjab & Haryana
High Court in CC, Amritsar vs. Raja Impex (P) Ltd. reported in 2008 (229)
E.L.T. 185 (P&H) held :-
12.?It may also be noticed here that in the case of M/s. Weston Components
Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi (supra), the goods were released to
the assessee on an application made by it and on the execution of a bond by
the assessee and in those circumstances, the Honble Apex Court held that the
mere fact that the goods were released on the bond being executed would not
take away the power of custom authority to levy redemption fine. A reading of
the judgment/order of the Honble Apex Court in M/s. Weston Components Ltd. v.
Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi (supra), would show that the Apex Court has
taken the view that redemption fine can be imposed even in the absence of the
goods as the goods were released to the appellant on an application made by it
and on the appellant executing a bond. Since the goods were released on a bond
the position is as if the goods were available. The ratio of the above
decision cannot be understood that in all cases the goods were permitted to be
cleared initially and later proceedings were taken for under-valuation or
other irregularity, even then redemption fine could be imposed. We are,
therefore, not inclined to accept the contention raised by the appellant on
this issue and set aside the redemption fine.
13.?The reliance of learned counsel for the revenue upon the provisions of
Section 125 of the Act is also misconceived. Section 125 of the Act is
applicable only in those cases which have been cleared by the concerned
authorities subject to furnishing undertaking/bond etc. However, in the
present case, admittedly, the goods were cleared by the respondent-authorities
without execution of any bond/undertaking by the assessee. Thus, in view of
the fact and circumstances of the case, we find no error in the impugned
orders. No substantial question of law arises for our determination in the
present appeal and the same is hereby dismissed.
Further, learned Counsel pleaded that the fine is payable, if at all, only on
redemption of goods. Here there is neither a seizure nor provisional release
under bond and, hence, the question of payment of redemption fine either to
release the goods or in terms of the bond does not arise. We find that there
can be no redemption fine in the absence of any seizure or provisional release
of such seized goods under proper bond. In the present case in the absence of
such events, redemption fine imposed is not sustainable.
Penalties :-
Learned Counsel contested imposition of various penalties on different
appellants. He submitted that no penalty can be imposed under Section 114A of
the Customs Act, 1962 as the present impugned orders can only be considered as
relatable to Section 18. Section 114A can apply when there is a demand under
Section 28. He further submitted that the issue involved is one of pure
interpretation of statutory provisions and as such there could be no ground
for imposing penalty. Learned Counsel mentioned that the Commissioner of
Central Excise, Goa in his order dated 27/4/2004 did not impose any penalty,
as the issue involved was only regarding classification of software and
assessment thereof.
We find that at the time of original proceedings before the Commissioner, Goa
or during further appellate proceedings before the CESTAT, Mumbai, the
detailed investigation and the evidences gathered therefrom by the Department
are not available for consideration. As seen from the impugned order dated
18/8/2006 of the Commissioner, Hyderabad II, the Department collected various
evidences after detailed investigation involving contract documents,
correspondence, E-mails, statements of various persons involved in the import
etc. These evidences were examined in the impugned order passed by the
Commissioner, Hyderabad II, which was carried in appeal to CESTAT, Bangalore
Bench. In both original and the appellate proceedings these evidences have
been examined. Regarding the statement of learned Senior Counsel that it is a
case of finalization of provisional assessment, we find that after a detailed
investigation the show cause notice to the appellants relating to imports
invoked the penal provisions. In a case before the investigation, the
Commissioner, Goa, did not impose penalty. In the case of Hyderabad, the
Commissioner impose penalties on the appellant/assessee in terms of Section
114A and on the various individuals under Section 112 of Customs Act. We find
that the penalty imposed under Section 114A was equivalent to the differential
duty payable which was worked out in terms of Rule 5 of Customs Valuation
Rules, 1988 readwith Section 14 (1) of Customs Act, 1962. Penalty under
Section 114A is imposable in cases where duty has not been levied or has been
short levied by reason of collusion or any willful mis-statement or
suppression of facts. The person who is liable to pay duty as determined under
sub-Section (8) of Section 28 shall be liable to pay penalty equal to the duty
so determined. We find in the present case, the duty has not been determined
under Section 28 of the Customs Act. The differential duty was determined in
terms of Section 14 (1) [without any reference to Section 28] of the Customs
Act for which invoking Section 114A is not legally tenable. As such,
considering that the main appellants are held to be not liable for penalty in
view of the above legal position, we find that the individual appellants are
also not liable for penalty. Here we note that the Original Authority had
imposed a penalty of Rs. 20,00,000/- on M/s L.G. Electronics and Rs.
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
All the appeals are disposed of in the above terms.
(Order pronounced in the open court on 17/02/2016.) (Justice G. Raghuram)
President (Sulekha Beevi C.S.) Member (Judicial) (B. Ravichandran) Member
(Technical) PK 2
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
    	the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for 
    	publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3.	Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair		:
    	copy of the order?
    4.	Whether order is to be circulated to the 			:
    	Department Authorities?
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.	]
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]                                   Appellants 
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    M/s L.G. Electronics		]
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.]
    	Versus
    CCE, Hyderabad  II                                                Respondent
    	and
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.					    Appellant 
    	Versus
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
    	the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for 
    	publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3.	Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair		:
    	copy of the order?
    4.	Whether order is to be circulated to the 			:
    	Department Authorities?
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.	]
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]                                   Appellants 
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    M/s L.G. Electronics		]
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.]
    	Versus
    CCE, Hyderabad  II                                                Respondent
    	and
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.					    Appellant 
    	Versus
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
    	the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for 
    	publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3.	Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair		:
    	copy of the order?
    4.	Whether order is to be circulated to the 			:
    	Department Authorities?
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.	]
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]                                   Appellants 
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    M/s L.G. Electronics		]
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.]
    	Versus
    CCE, Hyderabad  II                                                Respondent
    	and
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.					    Appellant 
    	Versus
    CCE, Goa								 Respondent 
    Appearance
    Shri V. Sridharan, Senior Advocate  for the appellants.
    Shri Mohd. Yousaf, Authorized Representative (DR)  for the Respondent.
    CORAM : Honble Shri Justice G. Raghuram, President
         Honble Ms. Sulekha Beevi C.S., Member (Judicial)
         Honble Shri B. Ravichandran, Member (Technical)
    Final No. 30110-30119/2016 Dated : 17/02/2016
    Per. B. Ravichandran :-
    APPEALS FOR CONSIDERATION :-
          The matter relating to valuation of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) was examined and by decided two co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal.
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
    2.	Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of 		:
    	the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for 
    	publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3.	Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair		:
    	copy of the order?
    4.	Whether order is to be circulated to the 			:
    	Department Authorities?
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.	]
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]
    M/s Surana Telecom Ltd.	]
    Shri Balasubramanian, V.P.	]                                   Appellants 
    Shri Narender Surana, M.D.	]
    M/s L.G. Electronics		]
    M/s Huawai Technologies Co. Ltd.]
    	Versus
    CCE, Hyderabad  II                                                Respondent
    	and
    M/s Bhagyanagar Metals Ltd.					    Appellant 
    	Versus
    CCE, Goa								 Respondent 
    Appearance
    Shri V. Sridharan, Senior Advocate  for the appellants.
    Shri Mohd. Yousaf, Authorized Representative (DR)  for the Respondent.
    CORAM : Honble Shri Justice G. Raghuram, President
         Honble Ms. Sulekha Beevi C.S., Member (Judicial)
         Honble Shri B. Ravichandran, Member (Technical)
    Final No. 30110-30119/2016 Dated : 17/02/2016
    Per. B. Ravichandran :-
    APPEALS FOR CONSIDERATION :-
          The matter relating to valuation of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) was examined and by decided two co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal.
1,00,000/- on HUAWEI under Section 112 of the Customs Act. These two companies
were the exporters of the impugned goods from Korea and China. Against the
original order, on their appeal the Tribunal set aside the penalties on them.
They were not parties to the further appeals before the Honble Supreme Court.
We find that these two appellants in the first round of decision by the
Tribunal are not liable to any penalty as there was no justification for the
same.
Summing up :-
For the reasons and on the analysis above;
(a) We uphold the impugned orders in so far as they relate to valuation and
assessment of imported Fixed Wireless Telephones (FWT) considering them as
single goods for assessment without any segregation of value for software ;
(b) the appellant/assessees are not liable to interest, redemption fine and
penalties ; and
(c) Penalties on other appellants (individuals and the exporting companies)
are also found unsustainable.
