Madras High Court
M/S.Agi Music Sdn Bhd vs Ilaiyaraja on 24 November, 2007
                                                                 1
                                               In the High Court of Judicature at Madras
                                                      Reserved: 28.04.2019
                                                    Pronounced: 04.06.2019
                                                                Coram
                                           The Honourable Dr.JUSTICE ANITA SUMANTH
                                                      C.S.No.308 of 2013 and
                                                         C.S.No.625 of 2014
                     C.S.No.308 of 2013
                     M/s.Agi Music Sdn Bhd
                     32 A Jalan BP 6/13 Bandar Bukit
                     Puchong 41700 Puchong Selangor
                     Malaysia
                     Represented by Agilan Lechaman
                     Managing Director                                     ...Plaintiff
                                                                Vs.
                     1.Ilaiyaraja
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     No.28, Mela Vadambokki Street 2nd
                     Floor Opp Sorkkavasal Koodal
                     Azhagar Perumal Kovil Madurai
                     625001 Tamil Nadu                                             ...Defendants
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules 1956 read with
                     Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 62 of the Copyright Act,
                     1957 praying as follows:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provision of the
                                    Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchisees and all others in any
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                2
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing, selling,
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    exclusive right under the Copyright Act to deal in any sound recording
                                    composed or made by the 1st Defendant;
                              (c)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from
                                    communicating with the Plaintiff Company’s dealers, suppliers or
                                    customers in a manner adverse to the Plaintiff Company’s reputation
                                    and, in particular, from purporting to question the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    right to exploit the works composed by the 1st defendant or claim
                                    conflicting rights thereto, and to award the costs.
                     C.S.No.625 of 2014
                     Ilaiyaraja                                                  ...Plaintiff
                                                                Vs.
                     1. B.Narsimhasn, Agi Music Pvt. Ltd
                        No.6 Aruna Nagar 2nd Street,
                        Pallikarani, Chennai.
                     2. Echo Recording Company Pvt.Ltd.
                        No.30 Conran Smith Road,
                        Gopalapuram, Chennai-86.
                     3. M/s.Unisys Info Solution Pvt. Ltd
                        Sco17, 12th Floor Main Market
                        Sector 13 Urban estate, Karnal 132001
                        Andhra Pradesh (State)
                     4. M/s.Agi Music Sdn Bhd
                       32 A Jalan BP 6/13 Bandar Bukit
                       Punchong 41700 Punchong Selangor
                       Malaysia
                       Represented by Agilan Lechaman
                       Managing Director
                     5. M/s.Giri Trading Company Rep.by
                        Sushama Ranganathan
                        Its managing Director Office
                        Modi Niwas Opp.Post Office
                        Matunga, Mumbai-400019                                   ...Defendants
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 3
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules, 1956 read
                     with Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code praying as follows:
                          A. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants from violating in any way
                             particularly by entering into or attempting to enter into or, after entering into
                             by performing or assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any
                             third party of the suit schedule mention films.
                          B. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants its agents officers servants,
                             representatives, franchise and all others in any way capacity acting for or on
                             behalf of from manufacturing, selling, distributing or in any other way
                             infringing the plaintiff’s exclusive right under the Copy Right Act to deal in
                             any sound recording composed or made by the defendants.
                          C. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants from communication with
                             the plaintiff dealers, suppliers, or customers in a manner adverse to the
                             plaintiff company’s reputation and, in particular from purporting to question
                             the plaintiff’s right to exploit the works composed or claim conflicting rights
                             and cost of the suit.
                                    For Plaintiff :     Mr.Anirudh Krishnan
                                                        Assisted by Mr.Keerthikiran Murali
                                                        (Plaintiff in C.S.No.308/2013 and
                                                        4th Defendant in C.S.No.625/2014)
                                    For Defendants:     Mr.Perumpulavil Radhakrishnan
                                                        Assisted by Mr.S.P.Vijayaraghavan for
                                                        Mr.S.K.Rakhunathan and Mr.S.Kingsten Jerald
                                                        (for 1st Defendant in C.S.No.308/2013 and
                                                        Plaintiff in C.S.No.625/2014)
                                                         Mr.Satish Kumar
                                                         Assisted by Ms.Gopika
                                                         (for 2nd defendant in C.S.No.625/2014)
                                                  COMMON JUDGMENT
                              This common judgment is passed in C.S.No.625 of 2014 and C.S.No.308 of
                     2013 since the issues as well as facts involved are intertwined. The plaintiff in
                     C.S.No.308 of 2013 (‘1st suit’) is Agi Music, Malayasia, arrayed as D4 in C.S.No.625
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 4
                     of 2014 (‘2nd suit). Mr. Ilaiyaraja, arrayed as D1 in the 1st suit, is the plaintiff in 2nd
                     suit. Modern Cinemas arrayed as D3 in the 1st suit is not a party in the 2nd suit.
                     That apart, the 2nd suit filed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja arrays the Echo Recording Company
                     Pvt. Ltd., M/s.Unisys Info Solution Pvt Ltd., and Giri Trading Company as D2, D3
                     and D5 respectively.
                              2.The reliefs sought in both suits are set out hereunder:
                     C.S.308 of 2013:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provisions of
                                    the Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the second Defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchises and all others in any
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing selling
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the plaintiff company’s
                                    exclusive right under the Copyright Act to deal in any sound recording
                                    composed or made by the 1st defendant;
                              (c)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from
                                    communicating with the plaintiff Company’s dealers, suppliers or
                                    customers in a manner adverse to the plaintiff Company’s reputation
                                    and, in particular, from purporting to question the plaintiff Company’s
                                    right to exploit the works composed by the 1st defendant or claim
                                    conflicting rights thereto, and to award the cost.
                     C.S.625 of 2014:
                          A. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants from violating in any way
                             particularly by entering into or attempting to enter into or, after entering into
                             by performing or assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any
                             third party of the suit schedule mention films.
                          B. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants its agents officers servants,
                             representatives, franchise and all others in any way capacity acting for or on
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  5
                              behalf of from manufacturing, selling, distributing or in any other way
                              infringing the plaintiff’s exclusive right under the Copy Right Act to deal in
                              any sound recording composed or made by the defendants.
                          C. Permanent injunction restraining the defendants from communication with
                             the plaintiff dealers, suppliers, or customers in a manner adverse to the
                             plaintiff company’s reputation and, in particular from purporting to question
                             the plaintiff’s right to exploit the works composed or claim conflicting rights
                             and cost of the suit.
                              3. Heard the detailed submissions of Mr.P.Radhakrishnan, learned counsel for
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja/D1 in the 1st suit/plaintiff in the 2nd suit, Mr.Anirudh Krishnan, learned
                     counsel for D1 & D4 in the 2nd suit/plaintiff in 1st suit and Mr.Sathish Kumar for D4
                     in the 2nd suit. There is no representation for the other parties despite service being
                     complete on all. The 2nd suit has been dismissed for default as regard D1 on
                     29.09.2016.
                              4. I start the narration of facts with the submissions of Mr.Ilaiyaraja, despite
                     the fact that he is the plaintiff only in the second suit. This is for the reason that the
                     entire lis revolves around the ownership of the Intellectual property in the music
                     compositions/musical works of Mr.Ilaiyaraja. The Annexure to the 2nd suit contains
                     reference to 1074 compositions. The Schedule and Exhibit to the Sound Recording
                     Licence Agreement dated 27.11.2007 relied upon by Agi Music Sdn Bhd refers to
                     678 films in which 3811 songs have been composed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja and the
                     Annexure to the written statement filed by Echo, D2 in the 2nd suit, refers to
                     Agreements with Producers in relation to 310 films in which Mr.Ilaiyaraja has
                     composed music, of which 259 have been filed and marked as evidence by Echo. It
                     thus seems appropriate to me that the narration of facts commences with his
                     submissions.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                6
                              5. The plaint pleadings (2nd suit) are not very detailed at all and are
                     supplemented in great detail by the submissions of Mr.P.Radhakrishnan, learned
                     counsel appearing on behalf of Mr.Ilaiyaraja, assisted by Mr.S.P.Vijayaraghavan
                     and for Mr.S.K.Rakhunathan and Mr.S.Kingsten Jerald. The stand of Mr.Ilaiyaraja,
                     in both suits is as follows:
                              (i) Mr. Ilaiyaraja is a renowned music composer, acknowledged to be one of
                     the finest in the world. As on date of institution of the second suit, his compositions
                     number in excess of 4,500 songs for more than 1000 films. The genres that he has
                     composed in include films, popular music, western music, orchestral, folk, religious
                     and world music, choral music and oratorios. His music has been an intrinsic part of
                     several films in many languages. He contends that he is the sole and absolute
                     owner of the rights subsisting in the ‘musical work’ and ‘sound recordings’
                     contained in the films as well as stand-alone independent compositions, in terms of
                     the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Act’).
                              (ii) The plaint sets out his achievements in the music world in extenso,
                     pointing out that he is celebrated throughout the world for the creativity and depth
                     in his compositions. He has been awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government
                     of India. He asserts his right in law to the music composed by him as well the right
                     to assign the right of reproduction, exploitation and use thereof to anyone, at his
                     discretion.
                              (iii) As far as Echo Recording Company Pvt Ltd (hereinafter referred to as
                     ‘Echo’) is concerned, the plaint is absolutely bereft of details. There are no
                     pleadings that are specific to, or descriptive of the specific cause of action pleaded
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  7
                     as against Echo, except in the concluding portion of paragraph 3 where he states in
                     general terms as follows: ‘According to the act the plaintiff is the sole and absolute
                     owner of the right in respect of the musical works sound recording contained in the
                     films and as well as the independent artistic composer.          In fact the plaintiff has
                     absolute right for production reproduction, use and sale to anybody on whatsoever
                     manner work performed by the plaintiff on the artistic and musical manner. The
                     plaintiff has every right assign the same to anybody on his choice for the
                     consideration or by assignment. The precondition for the same is that the royalty
                     of the same assignment should be paid the author viz., plaintiff. As per the act the
                     plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder of the musical works performed in the
                     films including the right to make and release the copies of the said works by eluting
                     the works any manner.’
                              (iv) Paragraph 7 of the plaint, detailing the cause of action, states that the
                     plaintiff has been carrying on business of composing music in Chennai from 1974 till
                     date of suit. There is also reference to the defendants having approached
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja seeking exploitation of his ‘musical works’ and ‘sound recordings’ and
                     him having granted them permission upon condition that royalty be paid to him. A
                     generic statement that no royalty has been paid is made but no details of defaults
                     are provided.
                              (v) Though he states that he holds complete and absolute right over his
                     musical works, on account of the paucity of time to devote to more mundane or
                     material    pursuits   such   as   distribution,   exhibition   or   exploitation   thereof,
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja, on 27.11.2007, executed an Assignment Agreement assigning to his
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 8
                     wife, Mrs.Jeevaraja, all and complete rights in his musical works/compositions
                     detailed in Exhibit A thereof.
                              (vi) Mrs.Jeevaraja, in turn, licensed the rights of exploitation of the same to
                     Agi Music Sdn Bhd, at the behest of the latter (Agi Music Sdn Bhd/D1 & D4 in the
                     2nd suit/plaintiff in 1st suit and is hereinafter referred to as ‘Agi Music’), vide a Sound
                     Recording Licensing Agreement (referred to hereinafter as ‘SRLA’), upon condition
                     that royalties be paid to Mr.Ilaiyaraja.
                              (vii) A Sub-Publishing Agreement (hereinafter referred to as ‘SPA’) dated
                     24.11.2007 was also entered into by and between Raja Music Universals, by
                     Mrs.Jeevaraja, as its owner and Agi Music, as sub-publisher, to the effect that the
                     latter was granted world rights to print, publish and vend the compositions listed in
                     the Schedule/Exhibit A thereto for a period of 10 (ten) years upon payment of
                     royalty.
                              (viii) An Addendum dated 06.01.2010 had been executed, according to Agi
                     Music, to both the SRLA and SPA making some additions to the main agreements.
                     The Addendum has been denied outright by Mr.Ilaiyaraja who contends that the
                     document was illegal and the signatures therein said to be those of his wife as well
                     as the initials therein said to be his, constituted a rank forgery.
                              (ix) I must digress at this juncture to state that the factum of assignment of
                     copyright to Mrs.Jeevaraja or the subsequent licensing of the rights by her to Agi
                     Music does not figure in the suit pleadings. This has led to a serious objection by
                     Agi Music that Mr.Ilaiyaraja is patently guilty of suppression of facts particularly
                     seeing as the 1st suit has been filed by Agi Music making claims based upon the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                9
                     aforesaid agreements even as early as in 2013 in which summons had been served
                     upon Mr.Ilaiyaraja by the time the 2nd suit came to be filed. I will deal with this
                     objection in due course.
                              (x) To continue with the narration, though the SRLA and SPA stipulate a
                     period of ten years for their validity, no period is stipulated in respect of the
                     Assignment to Mrs.Jeevaraja. The argument of Mr.Ilaiyaraja is that the provisions of
                     Section 19(5) of the Act provides for a period of five (5) years, by default, if the
                     agreement for assignment of copyright was silent as to the period of such
                     assignment. Thus, according to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, by statutory mandate, the assignment
                     of the rights to his wife was for a period of five years only. Consequently, both the
                     SRLA and SPA dated 24.11.2007 cease to have any effect from 27th November
                     2012. In any event, Mrs.Jeevaraja had passed away on 31.10.2011 and thus the
                     assignment dated 24.11.2007 could not have survived thereafter post her demise.
                     For these reasons, Mr.Ilaiyaraja contends that the assignment of his copyright and
                     sound recording rights as well as the subsequent licenses/rights came to an end on
                     31.10.2011 itself and at any rate on 26.11.2012.
                              (xi) However, according to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, Agi Music has continued to exploit
                     his work unfairly and even after the lapsing of the agreements, infringing his
                     copyright as well as sound recording rights compulsively. On the basis of the above
                     pleadings, the plaintiff prays for the grant of permanent injunctions restraining the
                     defendants by way of the present suit prayers.
                              (xii) The pre-suit legal notice has been issued only to Mr.Narasimhan of Agi
                     Music, the first defendant and Agi Music, on 05.06.2014 and no legal notice is
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 10
                     stated to have been issued to Echo. Be that as it may, the reliefs of permanent
                     injunctions from exploitation of the musical works in any manner including analog,
                     digital internet telephony or any other manner and of mixing or exploitation thereof,
                     are sought as against all defendants, including Echo.
                              6. Original Application Nos:760 to 762 of 2014 had been filed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     praying for the grant of ad interim injunctions restraining the defendants from
                     exploiting in any way the exclusive copyright claimed to be held by Mr.Ilaiyaraja in
                     regard to the musical works and sound recordings in question and connected
                     reliefs. Application No.7701 of 2014 was filed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja in terms of Order 14
                     Rule 8 read with Order 2 Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (in short ‘CPC’)
                     praying for leave to file a separate suit for reserved reliefs.
                              7. Not to be outdone, Agi Music as well as the remaining defendants in the
                     2nd suit filed applications seeking the rejection of plaint in terms of Order 7 Rule 11
                     of the CPC.
                              8. A learned Single Judge of this Court granted an ex parte injunction by
                     order dated 25.09.2014 restraining the respondents from exploiting the music
                     composed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja in any way till 16.10.14. The injunction was made
                     absolute and the applications of the plaintiff allowed on 03.03.2015. Application
                     No.7701 of 2014 sought leave of the Court to sue the defendants for other
                     remedies, such as damages for infringement of copyright, accounting for profits and
                     other monetary reliefs and was also allowed. The application seeking rejection of
                     plaint stood dismissed by virtue of the same order, as aforesaid.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  11
                              9. Order dated 03.03.2015 was carried in Original Side Appeal by all parties.
                     The First Bench of this Court disposed the appeal, setting timelines for the
                     completion of pleadings as well as recording of evidence and thereafter for the
                     hearing and disposal of the suits finally. The Order of the learned Single Judge was
                     thus not disturbed in any way.        At this juncture, an attempt was also made at
                     settlement of the dispute, that was, unfortunately, unsuccessful.
                              10. A Petition came to be subsequently filed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja alleging
                     contempt by the respondents in the applications. He alleged that the respondents
                     were continuing to deal in, sell and exploit the music compositions that they had
                     been restrained from selling. Notice was issued and has been served upon Echo
                     alone. The matter awaits completion of service upon the other respondents.
                              11. The submissions of Agi Music, the plaintiff in the 1st suit, represented by
                     Mr.Anirudh Krishnan Assisted by Mr.Keerthikiran Murali, are as follows:
                              (i) Agi Music is a record label and music publishing company having a
                     presence both in Malaysia and in India. It has a wide portfolio of sound tracks of
                     several reputed music composers. It had entered into an SRLA and SPA on
                     24.11.2007 with Mrs.Jeevaraja, the wife of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and the owner of the
                     copyright in his musical compositions, receiving exclusive rights worldwide to exploit
                     such copyright. The Agreements contained a Schedule and Exhibit thereto detailing
                     the 678 films and 3811 songs, comprising ‘music products’ for the purpose of the
                     agreement. The exclusive entitlement to manufacture, sell and distribute the ‘music
                     products’ in several forms, worldwide, was conditional upon Mr.Ilaiyaraja receiving
                     50% per cent of the proceeds from such exploitation.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 12
                              (ii) An addendum was executed on 06.01.2010 reiterating the 2007
                     agreements and extending the same to cover the digital version of the songs. AGI
                     music has been dutiful in the remittance of the royalty as agreed. However and
                     unfortunately, Mr.Ilaiyaraja did not display the same adherence to the terms of the
                     agreements. There were several occasions between 2010 and 2013 when
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja sought to breach the clauses of the agreement, specifically the
                     negative covenant that sought to restrain him from granting or attempting to grant
                     any rights to third parties that would be inconsistent with the exclusive rights
                     granted to Agi Music.
                              (iii) Though the initial attempts to breach the aforesaid negative covenant did
                     not fructify, on 19.04.2013, Agi Music received information that Mr.Ilaiyaraja was
                     contemplating an agreement with the second defendant, Modern Cinemas, for
                     exploitation of the same repertoire as covered in the Agreements, in breach of the
                     negative covenant imposed upon the owner of the right as per Clause 2 of the
                     SRLA. This was a clear violation of the exclusive right granted to Agi Music, in force
                     for a period of ten years. Though several attempts were made to resolve the
                     dispute with Mr.Ilaiyaraja, he was not amenable to the requests of Agi Music
                              (iv) Agi Music has also been litigating on behalf of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and was
                     incurring substantial expenditure on his behalf to protect his copyright and its rights
                     under the agreement when other persons/entities have attempted to interfere with
                     the same. In C.S.No.187 of 2010 filed by People Info Comm. Pvt. Ltd., vs. Agi Music
                     Sdn Bhd, Unisys Infosolutions Pvt Ltd and Echo Recording Company Pvt ltd
                     questioning the copyright of Mr.Ilaiyaraja in the ‘sound recordings’, it was Agi Music
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                13
                     that has succeeded in establishing that Mr.Ilaiyaraja was indeed the copyright
                     owner of the ‘sound recording’ in fifty out of a hundred and eighty five films in
                     dispute. This had been possible since there had been agreements between the
                     producers of those films and Mr.Ilaiyaraja to the effect that the rights in the sound
                     recordings would be retained by the latter. This fact had been taken note of by this
                     Court in that case and an amicable solution arrived at as between the parties.
                              (v) Reference is placed on Section 14(e) of the Act, which provides that the
                     holding of copyrights in ‘sound recording’ gives the beneficiary the exclusive right to
                     make any ‘sound recording’ embodying it and also to sell or give on commercial
                     rental a copy of such ‘sound recording’. In the light of the entitlement of
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja to such ‘sound recording’, the exclusive right given to Agi Music is
                     lawful and cannot be violated. Hence the present suit seeking permanent injunction,
                     as per suit prayers.
                              12. In the course of the proceedings, the parties have confirmed that there is
                     no attempt by Modern Cinemas, D2 in the 1st suit, to enter into any agreement for
                     exploitation of the music compositions of Mr.Ilaiyaraja as apprehended by Agi
                     Music.
                              13. Written statements have been filed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja in C.S.No.308 of
                     2013 and Echo and Agi Music in C.S.No.625 of 2014. Apart from the pleadings, all
                     contesting parties have made/filed detailed oral/written arguments in common to
                     both suits. The written submissions are substantially more elaborate than the
                     pleadings and at times, also bring into play other factors and arguments, not
                     specifically pleaded. Taking into account all the material available in the form of
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 14
                     pleadings, oral and written submissions, depositions of the witnesses, evidences
                     filed and case-law relied upon at the Bar, I now summarize the position of the
                     parties as below:
                              A. Mr.Ilaiyaraja vis-à-vis Echo and vice versa
                              (i) The credentials of Mr.Ilaiyaraja as a composer, conductor, singer,
                     songwriter and instrumentalist are highlighted, reiterating his stand that he is the
                     absolute owner of the copyright in his music compositions/sound recordings.
                              (ii) Echo was started, according to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, only by him and owes its
                     fame solely to the successful music created/composed by him for the film
                     ‘Moondram Pirai’. This was done solely to encourage and help Mr.Subramanyam,
                     who started Echo.
                              (iii) Echo has no permission from Mr.Ilaiyaraja to exploit his works and no
                     document has been produced in this regard.
                              (iv) Detailed reference is made by Mr.Ilaiyaraja to the provisions of the Act
                     to establish that he is the legal owner of the copyright in the music composed by
                     him, used as ‘sound recordings’ in several cinematographic films, specifically
                     various clauses of section 2 as well as Sections 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 51 and 55.
                              (v) The provisions of the Copyright Act make it clear that Mr.Ilaiyaraja, as
                     the ‘author’, is the sole, exclusive and absolute owner of all rights contained in his
                     ‘musical works’ and ‘sound recordings’. According to him, such rights extend to the
                     right to produce, reproduce, use and sell such works to any person or entity of his
                     choice, upon such terms as he may think fit.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 15
                                (vi) Echo was started as a sole proprietorship in 1981 by one,
                     Mr.Subramanyam. It was converted into a private limited company in the year
                     1988. It is a recording company in the business of purchasing ‘sound recordings’
                     from producers of cinematograph films and using the same to manufacture
                     cassettes and compact discs for sale.
                              (vii) Echo states that it has obtained licenses/assignments for the ‘sound
                     recordings’ based on the ‘musical works’ of Mr.Ilaiyaraja from various producers of
                     the films, who, according to it are the owners of the such recordings.
                              (viii) According to Echo, the suit is entirely misconceived as Mr.Ilaiyaraja is
                     incorrect in the appreciation of the factual and legal position in issue, to the extent
                     to which he believes that it is the composer of the music who holds the copyright in
                     this regard.
                              (ix)The suit is also contested on the ground of lack of maintainability stating
                     that it is bad for the misjoinder of parties.
                              (x) The Act provides that a ‘sound recording’ right vests only in the producer,
                     who is both its ‘Author’ as well as ‘First Owner’. Mr.Ilaiyaraja has been engaged by
                     various producers to compose music for the films they produce. He thus, according
                     to Echo, enjoys only the status of an employee, employed to compose music for
                     their films and holds no other right barring the aforesaid. Once the musical work
                     has been commissioned for the purpose of a specific film, the composer receives
                     adequate remuneration in this regard from the producer. Thereafter, no rights can
                     be said to enure to the music composer. The evidence recorded clearly establishes
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                16
                     that Mr.Ilaiyaraja has received remuneration for all the assignments including
                     royalty therefrom, as extracted below:
                              Cross Examination by Echo, D2, on 25.02.2016:
                              …… I admit that I received the remuneration of my work whenever I
                              composed music for films.     Usually the producer will disperse my
                              remuneration.’
                              The aforesaid is, according to Echo, the correct legal position and there is
                     thus no statutory support for the argument of, and entitlement claimed by
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja.
                              (xi) Though no agreements have been produced as between Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     and Echo, Echo has made continuous remittances of royalty till 1990 and stopped
                     thereafter. This confirms the factum of acceptance and acquiescence of Echo that
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja holds rights in the ‘sound recordings’. Evidence in this regard has been
                     let in, in the form of invoices/vouchers for payment of royalty to Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     (Exs.A.12 to A.40, A.42 to A.71, A.73 to 78, and A.81 to A.87).
                              (xii) As far as the payment of royalty to Mr.Ilaiyaraja is concerned, Echo
                     admits the same. However, such royalty has been paid on the basis of the
                     arrangement with the producers and not on the basis of the alleged ownership of
                     the work of Mr.Ilaiyaraja.
                              (xiii) Echo confirms that it holds valid Assignment Agreements with different
                     producers, 310 in number, out of which 259, ranging between the years 1981 to
                     1991, have been marked and filed as documents. It was unable to locate 41
                     agreements on account of the distance of time involved. By virtue of the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               17
                     Agreements, Echo has been given the right from the producers to exploit the
                     ‘sound recordings’ based on the ‘musical works’ composed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja.
                              (xiv) Mr.Ilaiyaraja strongly disagrees with the interpretation canvassed by
                     Echo. His legal argument is that he has the unbridled right to exploit his ‘musical
                     works’ in his admitted capacity as the ‘author’ of such work. For this proposition, he
                     relies on the definitions of ‘author’, ‘cinematograph film’, ’infringing copy’,
                     ‘producer’, ‘sound recording’, ‘work’, ‘composer’, ‘musical work’ and ‘adaption’ in
                     sections 2(d), 2(f), 3(m), 2(uu), 2(xx), 2(y), 2(ffa), 2(p) and 2(a) of the Act.
                              (xv) Thereafter, detailed reference is made to Sections 13, 14 and 17 to
                     establish that he is the ‘first owner’ of the Copyright in the musical work, and thus
                     is vested with the right of reproduction or any other form of exploitation of such
                     work to the exclusion of any other person/entity.
                              (xvi) As regards the stand of Echo as well as the 259 Agreements relied upon
                     by it are concerned, the following specific arguments are advanced by Mr.Ilaiyaraja:
                              (a)The Copyright Amendment Act, 1994 substitutes the word ‘record’
                     wherever it occurred in the main Act with the phrase ‘sound recording’. The use of
                     the phrase ‘sound recording’ is only prospective as seen in the notes of clauses
                     when the Act was amended. Thus, the agreements relied upon by Echo would have
                     to be read only as they are without interpolating the words ‘sound recording’
                     therein. It is not the case of Echo that the words ‘sound recording’ have been
                     substituted by way of an addendum to the original agreements and thus the
                     agreements do not protect, in any way, the claims of Echo.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 18
                              (b) This argument of non-marketability of ‘sound recordings’ on the ground
                     that the agreements do not provide for the same, is countered vehemently by
                     ECHO pointing out that rights over ‘sound recordings’ and ‘musical works’ have
                     been provided for ever since the inception of the Copyright Act in 1957.       The
                     Act, as it stood promulgated in 1957, provided for the same rights as the present
                     Act does. In other words ‘sound recordings’ have always been intrinsic part of the
                     Copyright Act and the only change over time was the medium upon which the
                     sound is recorded.
                              (c) The version of the Copyright Act, 1957 as originally passed and the
                     amended Act notified on 09.05.1995 are compared to show that no new rights have
                     been created by the 1995 amendment in respect of ‘sound recording’ and such
                     rights are an intrinsic part and parcel of the original Act.
                              (d) The effect of the argument advanced by Mr.Ilaiyaraja would be to
                     question whether at all such a right, viz., ‘sound recording’ exists and who owns the
                     Copyright in that regard. This is inconceivable and a distortion of the law, according
                     to Echo. Echo states that the media upon which music is recorded over time has
                     changed in terms of advancement in technology and refinements thereof. Music
                     was originally recorded upon a ‘disc’ or ‘record’ and connotes the medium itself
                     upon which the recordings of sounds as well as medium was understood in the
                     1950s when the statute was enacted. However, the word ‘record’ connotes only the
                     factum of recording thereupon and reference to ‘sound recording’ should be read to
                     be synonymous with the word ‘record’.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               19
                              (e) With the passage of time, the media upon which sounds were recorded
                     increased manifold and as on date sound is recorded upon an extensive range and
                     variety of media. In fact, today, one does not even require physical recording of
                     sounds that can simply be downloaded from intangible spaces such as the Internet
                     or the Cloud. It is for this reason that legislature has connoted the phrase ‘sound
                     recording’ to merely indicate the act of preservation of the sound, whatever be and
                     without restriction, of the medium.
                              (f) In summary, Echo canvases the position that ‘sound recordings’, though
                     recorded in different media, were always a subject matter of the Copyright Act,
                     such right vesting only with the producers and Mr.Ilaiyaraja or any other composer
                     for that matter did not retain any right over the same.
                              (g) Mr.Ilaiyaraja then argues that the agreements relied upon by Echo are
                     envisaged to survive, if at all, only during the existence of the Copyright Act, 1957
                     or modifications thereto ‘for the time being in force’, that is, during the tenure of
                     the agreements itself being between 1981 and 1991. No subsequent amendments
                     to the statute would impact the same. The agreements have thus worked
                     themselves out and do not, in any way, impinge upon the rights of Mr.Ilaiyaraja.
                              (h) In the absence of evidence produced by Echo to establish that
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja has transferred the rights in his music compositions to the producers,
                     he would urge that the Court eschew the argument of Echo to the effect that the
                     producer retains the rights in the music and sound recording in the films, to his
                     exclusion.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 20
                              (i) If really the rights had thus been transferred, there would have been no
                     necessity to include Clause 6(b) in the agreements entered into by Echo with the
                     producers whereby the producers undertake to indemnify Echo against any claims
                     or damages arising out of the rights assigned/transferred.
                              (j) According to Echo, Mr.Ilaiyaraja being a composer of the stature that he
                     is, is fully aware of the fact that no rights vests in him, as far as the ‘sound
                     recording’ of his composition are concerned.
                              (k) According to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, it was he who had facilitated the business of
                     ECHO by requesting the producers to enter into sound distribution agreements with
                     it sans any consideration, on his personal request solely as a measure to support to
                     it. This, according to ECHO, reveals clearly that Mr.Ilaiyaraja was quite aware of the
                     legal position that no rights in regard to the ‘sound recordings’ vest in him, since
                     had it been otherwise, he would have transferred such rights to sound recording
                     companies, such as ECHO himself, and there would have been no necessity to
                     request the producers to do so.
                              (l) In response, Mr.Ilaiyaraja produces a communication issued by the Tamil
                     Films    Producers’   Council   bearing   Ref.No:2011/2013-2014   dated   27.02.2014
                     (Ex.A1), extracted below, confirming that he is the author of the creations
                     mentioned in the list.
                                               “To whomsoever it may concern
                                This is to certify that the list of names of films enclosed
                                herewith have Music Directed, Composed including Songs,
                                Tunes,    BGM’s,     Overall   themes   Music,    Orchestra,
                                Creativeness, Recording & Re-Recording by the Legend of the
                                Indian Cinema “Maestro-Isaignani Ilaaraja”, S/o.Ramasamy
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 21
                                (late) residing at No.38, Murugesan St., T.Nagar, Chennai
                                600 017.
                                All the films mentioned in the list are belongs to “Maestro-
                                Isaignani Ilaiyaraja” who is also the author of above said
                                creations.”
                                                                             Sd/-
                                                                 A.Kothandaramaiah (K.R.)
                                                                       President
                              (m) According to Echo, the above letter from the Producers’ Council does not
                     impact the legal position that Mr.Ilaiyaraja does not own any of the rights in the
                     ‘sound recording’.
                              (xvii) Mr.Ilaiyaraja then argues that Section 13(4) of the Act specifically
                     provides for a separate Copyright in respect of any work or part of the work that
                     has been utilized as part of a cinematograph film. Thus, the copyright held by a
                     creator of a part of a film, would not be affected by the ownership of the Copyright
                     in the entirety of the film, even if the latter was held by the producer.
                              (xviii) He relies on the provisions of Section 17 read with Section 2(d)(ii) of
                     the Act that protects the right of the ‘first owner’ of the Copyright, which, according
                     to him, is himself. The producer could thus not have transferred non-existing rights
                     to Echo and the agreements are vitiated on these grounds.
                              (xix) According to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, though the producer of a cinematograph film
                     holds the right in respect of the film itself, it does not obliterate in any manner, the
                     separate copyright that exists in various components of the film itself including the
                     musical and literary works.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                22
                              (xx) He relies on a decision of the Kerala High Court in the case of Madhu Vs.
                     Ramesan (CDJ 1987 Ker HC 557) for the proposition that it is the film producer
                     upon whom rests the burden to establish that he had commissioned the author to
                     compose the work in question for valuable consideration, which has not been done
                     in the present case by the defendants. Reliance is placed on a decision of this Court
                     in Lalgudi Jayaraman and Others vs Cleveland Cultural Alliance (2008 5 MLJ 458) to
                     establish that where a right over an artistic/musical/literary work is claimed by an
                     entity, apart from the author, such entity is under a very heavy burden to show
                     that the work was commissioned by him, was created in the course of employment
                     by the author and that there was no agreement to the contrary. In the present
                     case, this burden has not been discharged by Echo and its case would thus, have to
                     fall.
                              (xxi) A comparison is made between the statutory provisions, as they stood
                     prior to amendment by the 2012 Act and subsequent thereto, to bring home the
                     point that the rights vesting in a music composer have expanded considerably after
                     the amendment and as such it was the music composer in whom the copyright in
                     such work vests and who holds the exclusive rights for the exploitation thereof, as
                     in the present case.
                              (xxii) It is contended that the making and exploitation of the sound recording
                     de hors the visuals that accompany the ‘sound recording’ in the cinematograph
                     films constitute a clear and categoric infringement of the authors’ protected right.
                     As far as the producer is concerned and any other person/entity that derives power
                     from the producer, the right extends only to the reproduction of the sound
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   23
                     recording as part of the film itself. To clarify, only the broadcast/telecast/exhibition
                     of the sound recording along with the visual effects that accompany it in the original
                     cinematograph film is a permissible exploitation and any exploitation de hors the
                     visual effects and outside the setting of the cinematograph films, constitutes rank
                     infringement.
                               (xxiii) According to him, the beneficial interest claimed through the
                     agreements would tantamount to an actionable claim governed by Section 3 of the
                     Transfer of Property Tax, 1882 and the transfer of such actionable claims could only
                     be by execution of a non-testamentary instrument in writing as per Section 130(1)
                     thereof.
                               (xxiv) Reference is also made to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act,
                     1972 to urge that though Echo asserts that it has the right to exploit the ‘sound
                     recordings’, such right being derived from the permissions granted to the producer
                     by the author, Mr.Ilaiyaraja, no proof of such permission/waver of right has been
                     produced before this Court. Thus, adverse inference has to be drawn as the
                     defendants have not established their rights at all. The producers have also not
                     been impleaded as parties to the suits to establish the veracity of the
                     submissions/claims of Echo.
                               (xxv) Finally Mr.Ilaiyaraja places great reliance upon an order of the Income
                     tax      Appellate   Tribunal,   confirmed   by    a   Division   Bench   of   this   Court   in
                     M.Subramaniam Vs. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (272 ITR 525)                       to the
                     effect that Echo is only a licencee and not an owner of the intellectual property in
                     the ‘sound recording’ based on the music compositions of Mr.Ilaiyaraja. This
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               24
                     position was canvassed successfully by Echo before the Income tax authorities in
                     the context of proceedings under the Income tax Act, 1961 and Echo is thus
                     estopped from taking a contrary and contradictory view now, in civil proceedings.
                              (xxvi) Mr.Ilaiyaraja relies on the following judgments to buttress his
                     submissions:
                              (i)      Dr.H.S.Rikhy and others V. The New Delhi Municipal Committee
                                       (AIR 1962 SC 554)
                              (ii)     Provash Chandra Dalui and another V. Biswanath Banerjee and
                                       another (1989 Supp (1) SCC 487)
                              (iii)    Modi Co. V. Union of India (1969 AIR (SC) 9)
                              (iv)     Samant N.Balakrishna etc. V. George Fernandez and others (AIR
                                       1969 SC 1201(1)
                              (v)      Eastern Book Company & Ors. V. D.B.Modak & Another (2008 AIR
                                       (SC) 809)
                              (vi)     The Commissioner of Income Tax V. M.Subramaniam (272 ITR
                                       525)
                              (vii)    Ramswaroop Bagari V. State of Rajasthan and others (AIR 2002
                                       Rajasthan 27)
                              (viii)   Sardar Bir Singh V. Noor Ahmed and others (AIR 1972 Gauhati
                                       122)
                              (ix)     M/s.Holy Faith International Pvt. Ltd. And ors. V. Dr.Shiv K.Kumar
                                       (2006 AIR (AP) 198)
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                              25
                              (x)     Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. Haldwani V. Dhanram Singh and
                                      others (AIR 1990 Allahabad 104)
                              (xi)    Madhu V. Ramesan (CDJ 1987 Ker HC 557)
                              (xii)   Indian Performing Right Society Ltd. V. Music Broadcast India Ltd.
                                      (Appeal No.615 of 2011 in Suit No.2401 of 2006 dated 29.09.2011)
                              (xxvii) ECHO places substantial reliance on the judgment of the Supreme
                     Court in the case of Indian Performing Rights Society Ltd. Vs. Eastern Indian
                     Motion Pictures Association (hereinafter referred to as the ‘IPRS’) (AIR 1977 SC
                     1443) as well as the following cases:
                              (i)     Music Broadcast Private Limited V. IPRS (2011 (47) PTC 592)
                              (ii)    IPRS V. Aditya Pandey & Ors. (2012 (50) PTC 460)
                              (iii)   Radio Today Broadcasting Ltd., V IPRS (2009 (39) PTC 43)
                              (iv)    Lahiri Recording Co. Ltd. V. Music Master Video Mfg. Co. Ltd. (2008
                                      (37) PTC 121)
                              (v)     Gramaphone Company of India Limited V. Shanti Films Corporation
                                      (AIR 1987 Cal 63)
                              (vi)    Mathrubhumi & Malayala Manorama V. IPRS (unreported Kerala
                                      High Court judgment in FAO Nos.82, 83 of 2009 & 38 of 2010
                                      dated 08.02.2011)
                              (vii)   M.Padmini V. Raj Television Network (unreported Madras High
                                      Court in O.A.No.763 of 2013 in C.S.No.686 of 2013 dated
                                      13.4.2015)
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 26
                              (viii)    Union of India V. Vasavi Co-op. Housing Society (AIR 2014 SC 937)
                              (xxviii) On the basis of the aforesaid arguments, it is argued by Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     that the exploitation of the ‘musical works’ authored by him in the form of ‘sound
                     recordings’, by Echo, particularly in the absence of any proof produced to show that
                     the rights in such works have been transferred by him to the producers of
                     cinematograph films, amounts to infringement in terms of Section 51 of the Act.
                              B. Mr.Ilaiyaraja vis-a-vis Agi Music and vice versa
                              (i)According to Agi Music, the proposal to conditionally exploit Mr.Ilaiyaraja’s
                     music commenced in 2004 and on 24.11.2007 a SRLA was entered into between
                     Mrs.Jeevaraja and Agi Music for a period of ten (10) years. The agreement was
                     accompanied by a compact disk (CD), a schedule and Exhibit, and which contained
                     a list of films and songs numbering 678 and 3811 respectively, to which the
                     agreement related.
                              (ii) On the same day, a SPA was entered into between the parties enabling
                     Agi Music to exploit the music works for a period of ten (10) years. Both these
                     agreements had been drafted by Agi Music as admitted in evidence.
                              (iii) An addendum was entered into on 06.01.2010 reiterating the earlier
                     agreements and extending the scope of the same to the subject ‘music products’ in
                     digitized form also.
                              (iv) Though the SRLA provided for exclusive world right for exploitation of
                     the sound recordings of Mr.Ilaiyaraja, and contained a negative covenant as per
                     which Mrs.Jeevaraja would not grant rights to any other person or entity rights
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 27
                     inconsistent with the right granted to Agi Music, Mr.Ilaiyaraja had proceeded to
                     violate the same to the detriment of Agi Music.
                              (v) Thus, Agi Music seeks permanent injunctions as prayed for as well as
                     restitution for losses sustained by it.
                              (vi) According to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, the SRLA as well as the SRA have lapsed
                     since they were based upon an Assignment of his copyright to his wife,
                     Mrs.jeevaraja, for a period five years. Any licenses granted in excess of the period
                     of assignments were invalid. Admittedly, the deed of assignment does not contain a
                     term. In such circumstances, the provisions of Section 19(5) of the Act mandate
                     that the period would be five (5) years. Thus, according to him, the assignment
                     agreement dated 24.11.2007 would survive only for a period of five (5) years and
                     has expired as on 23.11.2012.
                              (vii) Moreover his wife, Mrs.Jeevaraja, had expired on 31.10.2011 and with
                     her the assignment of the copyrights as well. Thus there was no force in the
                     contentions of Agi Music as no claims could be entertained on the basis of lapsed
                     documents. Even according to Agi Music Mr.Ilaiyaraja had approached Modern
                     Cinemas, D2 in the 1st suit, only in 2013 after the assignment to Mrs.Jeevaraja had
                     expired.
                              Single and composite transaction
                              (viii)Agi Music argues that the entire transaction as between Mr.Ilaiyaraja,
                     Mrs.Jeeveraja and itself be viewed as a single arrangement and an implied term of
                     10 years be read into the Assignment Agreement. Exhibit A is common to all three
                     (3) agreements entered into leading to the conclusion that the transaction was one
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 28
                     single composite transaction. Thus, even the assignment agreement would have to
                     be construed as being in force for a period of 10 years though the tenure is not
                     specifically mentioned therein.
                              (ix)The composite transaction has also been understood by Mr.Ilaiyaraja to
                     be a single transaction and specific reference is made to a letter from Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     dated 12.07.2011 confirming the ownership of copyright by him and describing Agi
                     Music as his exclusive licencee.
                              (x)Reliance is placed in this regard upon a decision of the Delhi High Court in
                     the case of Dorling Kindersley (India) Pvt.Ltd Vs.Sanguine Publishers and Others
                     (1956 RTC 40). The agreement in that case did not mention a term and thus the
                     Delhi High Court embarked upon the interpretation of the phrase used therein being
                     ‘full right to publish throughout the world’. This decision is distinguished by
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja on facts.
                              Payment of Royalty
                              (xi) That apart, Agi Music has defaulted in the remittances of royalty and
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja has reserved his right to proceed against it in this regard. The plaint is
                     accompanied by a computation of the Royalties due and payable to Mr.Ilaiyaraja for
                     the period 2007 to 2014 when, according to him, his intellectual property was being
                     continuously exploited by Agi Music as follows:
                                    ABSTRACT LIST TOTAL PENDING DUE AS ON DATE
                     S.No.     Year                   Share Amount Receipt                   Pending Due
                     1         Total revenue share on 66,00,000     Nil                      66,00,000.00
                               2007-2008
                     2         Total revenue share on 66,00,000     1,49,271.81              64,50,728.19
                               2009-2010
                     3         Total revenue share on 66,00,000     3,83,577.00              62,16,423.00
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                29
                               2010-2011
                     4         Total revenue share on    53,00,000        1,24,000.00      51,76,000.00
                               2011-2012
                     5         Total revenue share on    53,00,000        7,00,000         46,00,000.00
                               2012-2013
                     6         Total revenue share on    53,00,000        NIL              53,00,000.00
                               2013-2014
                               Total outstanding due                                       3,37,43,151.19
                              Receipt on 10.06.2001 from MACP = 5,92,156.24
                              Receipt on 12.08.2012 from MACP        = 11,80,264.73
                              Total outstanding to be payable by Agi Music SDN BHD.
                                           = 3,37,43,151.19 – 17,72,420.97 = Rs.3,19,70,730.22
                              (xii) As regards the issue raised about non-payment of royalties after 2013
                     and thus, facet acceptance of Agi Music that the assignment was only for 5 years
                     Agi Music argues that the payments have admittedly been made till 2012. Normally
                     the practice of Agi Music was to make the payments for the previous financial year
                     during the months of July to September. Thus, for the financial year 2012-13
                     payments were due between July to September 2013. However, when Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     filed his written statement to C.S.No.308 of 2013 contending that the agreement
                     between Agi Music and Mrs.Jeevaraja was only for 5 years, Agi Music did not make
                     a serious attempt thereafter to remit royalties only by virtue of the stand of
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja. In fact, even after this an attempt was made on 04.08.2014 to
                     deposit royalties for 2013-14 but Agi Music was unable to do so, since Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     had closed that particular bank account.
                              (xiii)Agi also contests the 2nd suit on the ground of non-joinder of parties.
                     Though Mrs.Jeevaraja passed away in 2011 and the 2nd suit filed in 2014, none of
                     the legal heirs of Mrs.Jeevaraja have been made a party to the suit. Thus, the suit
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                     30
                     is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties. Agi Music also argues that the definition
                     of the word ‘owner’ in the suit agreement includes ‘successor’ and seeing as
                     Mrs.Jeevaraja had passed away on 31.10.2011, the agreement would continue to
                     bind her legal heirs including her husband, Mr.Ilaiyaraja. This argument is negated
                     pointing out that the assignment to Mrs.Jeevaraja was itself only for a period of five
                     (5) years and even though upon expiry of the agreement, the rights reverted back
                     to       Mr.Ilaiyaraja,   there   was   admittedly   no   documentation   entered   into   by
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja with Agi Music and thus, the question of continuation of the licence
                     and publishing agreements does not arise at all. Though raised in the written
                     submission this ground has not been seriously pursued in the course of arguments.
                                (xiv) In the course of the oral hearing, an argument is advanced by Agi
                     Music, sailing along with Echo in its stand that the copyright in a ‘sound recording’
                     vests only in the producer, that the words ‘sound recording’ appearing in the SRLA
                     and SPA be struck off adopting the ‘blue pencil principle’ and be replaced instead by
                     the words ‘musical works’. The argument is objected to on the ground that it is an
                     afterthought and does not find place in the pleadings. In any event, and admittedly,
                     royalty has been paid by Agi Music pursuant to agreement dated 24.11.2007 and
                     there is no prayer for refund of the same.
                                (xv) Then again, a contradictory stand is taken by Agi Music by adopting in
                     full the arguments of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and supporting his stand that the music
                     composer has full rights vested in him in respect of the ‘musical works’ that he
                     composes. Reliance is placed on the decision of a Division Bench of this Court in
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 31
                     Muthooth      Financial   Ltd.   vs   The   Indian   Performing   Arts   Society   Ltd
                     (MANU/TN/2625/2009).
                              (xvi) The decision in Associated Hotels of India Limited Vs. R.N.Kapoor (AIR
                     59 SC 1262) and Didi Modes Pvt.Ltd. and another Vs. Hindi Trading Manufacturing
                     Company ( AIR 96 Delhi 319) is referred to by Agi Music for the proposition that a
                     transaction should have to be determined in substance and not merely upon the
                     description of such transaction in the document. These cases are distinguished by
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja who points out that they relate to leave and licence under the
                     provisions of the Delhi, Ajmer and Merwer Rent Control Act, 1994 and interpret the
                     phrase ‘a room in a hotel’. In the present case, there is no room for such
                     interpretation since the agreements are clear and there is no room for ambiguity.
                              (xvii) Mr.Ilaiyaraja places reliance is placed on the decision of the Andhra
                     Pradesh High Court in Holy Faith International Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Dr.Shiv K Kumar (33
                     PTC 456) to illustrate that if the transaction in question is not bona fide, the Court
                     will refrain from assisting such transaction. The decisions in Samanth N.
                     Balakrishnan Vs.George Fernandez and others (Air 1969 SC 1201), Laxmi Raja
                     Shetty and Another Vs. State of Tamil Nadu              (AIR 1988 SC 1274) and
                     Ramaswaroop Bagari Vs. State of Rajasthan (AIR 2002 Rajasthan 27) have been
                     relied upon to say that no averment without proof and establishment of the same
                     through evidence and witnesses is acceptable, and at best, such information would
                     constitute hearsay or secondary evidence. In the present case no evidence has
                     been let in by either of the defendants in support of their arguments and their
                     statements are thus, unverified and unsubstantiated, liable to be rejected in limine.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               32
                              (xviii) On the question of interpretation of statues, Mr.Ilaiyaraja places
                     reliance upon the decisions in Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. Haldwani V.
                     Dhanram Singh and others (AIR 1990 Allahabad 104) and Hoosein Kasam Dada
                     (India Ltd.) Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 53 SC 221), to contend that an
                     amending act cannot impair the right that is vested in a party by application of the
                     law prevalent till amendment, unless the amending provisions makes such express
                     intendment clear. In the present case, the Act has been amended only with effect
                     from 2012 and as such, there is no question that the 2012 amendment would
                     impact the position of law that prevailed prior thereto.
                              Suppression of facts
                              (xix)   Several   judgments   have    been   relied   upon   by   Agi   Music
                     (S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu Vs Jagannath (AIR 1994 SC 853); Prestige Lights Vs.
                     State Bank of India (2007 8 SCC 449), Manohar Lal(dead) by LR’s Vs. Ugrasen
                     (dead) by LRs (2010 (11) SCC 557), Seemax Constructions Pvt.ltd. Vs. State Bank
                     of India and another (AIR 1992 Delhi 197) Gopal Krishnaji Ketkar Vs. Mohammed
                     Haji Latif and Others (1968 3 SCR 862), Ram Sarup Gupta Vs. Bishun Narain
                     Intercollege and Others (AIR 1987 SC 1242) & Syed and Company and Others Vs.
                     State of Jammu & Kashmir and Others (1995 Supp (4) SCC 422) for the proposition
                     that suppression by Mr.Ilaiyaraja in the 2nd suit vitiates the same in full. However,
                     the allegation of suppression of material facts is simply brushed aside and denied
                     by Mr.Ilaiyaraja, according to whom a full and true disclosure of all material facts
                     by him. On the other hand, it is Agi Music that has engaged in forgery of
                     documents.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               33
                              (xx) Agi Music responds stating that the argument of forgery of documents
                     by Mr.Ilaiyaraja, though raised in the submissions, both oral and written does not
                     find place in the pleadings relying upon the decision in the case of Saradamani
                     Kandappan Vs. S.Rajalakshmi and Others ((2011) 12 SCC 18). To a specific
                     question as to whether the signature of Mrs.Jeevaraja is in fact hers, Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     appears to have answered ‘yes’ initially, subsequently saying that ‘he does not
                     know’. He also answers in response to a question as to why he had assigned the
                     Copyright of his musical work to his wife saying that he did so since he does not
                     follow the practice of normally signing in any such agreement.
                              (xxi) Mr.Ilaiyaraja also points out that forgery, fraud and cheating has
                     specifically been pleaded in paragraphs 4 to 6 of C.S.625 of 2014. Moreover,
                     according to him, forgery, fraud and illegality is rife on the face of record as can be
                     seen from the agreement stated to be between Raja Music Universals represented
                     by himself and Agi Music where the signatures are that of his wife and not himself.
                              Agency
                              (xxii) Agi Music also contends that the arrangement between Mr.Ilaiyaraja
                     and his wife would in effect be an agency, though termed as an assignment relying
                     upon the cases in Krishna Bhatta V. Mundila Ganapathi Bhatta (AIR 1955 Mad 648)
                     and Chairman, Life Insurance Corporation V. Rajiv Kumar Bhasker ((2005) 6 SCC
                     188). The definition of ‘agency’ is culled out by the Supreme Court in Chairman,
                     Life Insurance Corporation Vs. Rajiv Kumar Bhasker ((2005) 6 SCC 188) stating
                     that ‘an agent would be a person employed to do any act for another, or to
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 34
                     represent another in dealings with third party and the person for whom such act is
                     done or who is so represented is called the principal’.
                              (xxiii) In addition to the above, the agreement between Mr.Ilaiyaraja and
                     Mrs.Jeevaraja does not comply with the mandatory conditions for a valid
                     assignment under Section 19 that are, (i) the agreement should be in writing and
                     signed by the assigner or duly authorised agent (ii) It should identify the work, the
                     duration of the assignment and the territorial area to which it shall apply (iii) It shall
                     mention, the royalty payable. According to Agi Music, these mandatory conditions
                     have not been satisfied. The royalty, in this case has also been received by
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja and, by conduct, the agency has, in fact, been accepted by him. This
                     argument is carried forward by relying on the following cases as well as the
                     definition of agency by Bowstead:
                     (a) Wilson V. Tumman, [(1843) 6 MAN 236]
                     (b) Rodmell V. Eden, [(1859) 1 F&F 542]
                      (c) Surendra Nath Roy V. Kedar Nath Bose and Ors.
                     (d) S.N.Soni V. Taufiq Farooqi and Ors. [AIR 1976 Del 63]
                     (e) M.C.S.Rajan & Co. V. National Nail Industries
                      (f) G.Vasantha Bai Vs. Special Commissioner and Commissioner Land Reforms,
                     [Madras 1998 (2) CTC 272]
                     (g) K.Santhanam V. S.Kavitha through her sub-power agent K.Seerappan
                              (xxiv) Specific reliance is placed on Section 196 of The Contract Act, dealing
                     with creation of an agency by conduct of parties. According to Agi Music, Section
                     196 would apply even in those situations where, there was no prior agency and the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 35
                     Court can infer a fresh or a new arrangement of agency, where the circumstances
                     so warrant.
                              (xxv) The argument on agency is opposed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja on the ground
                     that there is absolutely no material in support of the same. He argues that such a
                     relationship, premised on a legal understanding between the parties cannot be
                     assumed merely for the asking by the defendants. In fact, the oral evidence by way
                     of chief and cross-examination does not contain a single question in relation to the
                     existence or otherwise of the relationship of agency and this argument is clearly an
                     afterthought, liable to be rejected in limine. It is clear from agreement dated
                     24.11.2007 Mr.Jeeva Raja was nothing but an assignee of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and nothing
                     more.
                              Restitution of losses
                              (xxvi) According to Agi Music, it is suffering substantial losses on account of
                     the injunction granted in favour of Mr.Ilaiyaraja operating against it from
                     20.09.2014 and is thus, entitled for restitution on account of this loss. All the more
                     so, since the delay in the present matter was only on account of Mr.Ilaiyaraja, who
                     had violated the timeframes set by the Division Bench in O.S.A.No.114 to 116 of
                     2015. The restitution is calculated by adopting an average annual royalty for the
                     period 2007 to 2012 amounting to Rs.2,71,360/- per year for a period of three(3)
                     years two(2) months coming to amounting of Rs.8,59,335/-. Alternatively, Agi
                     Music states that the right to royalty be extended by the period when the interim
                     injunction was in force.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                36
                              (xxvii) With respect to the defence of restitution taken by Agi Music relying
                     upon the decisions of Southern East Coastfield Vs. State of M.P.((2003) 8 SCC 648)
                     and Karnataka Rare Earth Vs. Senior Geologist, Department of Mines ((2004) 2
                     SCC 783) Mr.Ilaiyaraja argues that he who seeks equity must also act equitably.
                     Agi Music being an infringer has no right to seek equity from the Court.
                              (xxviii) Agi Music also relies upon a slew of decisions under the caption
                     ‘internal aid’ being Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay Vs. Ahmedbhai Umerbhai
                     & Co. (AIR 1950 SC 134) and Frick India Ltd. Vs. Union of India and others (AIR 90
                     SC 689) to assist the interpretation of the statutory provisions. According to
                     Mr.Ilaiyaraja, these decisions are irrelevant and unnecessary to the present matter.
                     Internal aids are only required to aid the exercise of interpretation in the absence of
                     clarity in the main statutory provision. In the present case, the language of the
                     Copyright Act is clear and there is thus no necessity for any aid, either internal or
                     external.
                              (xxix) Agi Music would urge that Mr.Ilaiyaraja not be permitted to probate
                     and reprobate. It relies on the case of R.N.Gosain Vs. Yeshpal Dhir (AIR 1993 SC
                     352); Bank of India Vs. O.P.Swaranakar (AIR 2000 Supreme Court 858) and
                     M/s.Coffee     Traders   Mangalore   Vs.   M/s.Honor   Resources   (International   Co.
                     Ltd)(2011 10 SCC 420) in this regard, stating that Mr.Ilaiyaraja, having profited
                     from the receipt of royalties pursuant to the very transaction sought to be negated
                     by him, should not be permitted to do so by the Court. The argument that the
                     Court will, in this case read an implied term to the effect that the assignment would
                     be for a period of 10 years is reiterated. Reliance is placed on the ‘oh of course
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                37
                     test’ whereby when something is so obvious, the Court will read it as a term to be
                     implied into the contract. (see Shirlaw Vs. Southern Foundries (1926) Ltc. [1930] 2
                     K.B.206 quoted in United India Insurance Vs. Manubhai Dharmasinbhai (supra)).
                              (xxx) As regards the argument of Mr.Ilaiyaraja that primacy should be given
                     to text over context in an agreement between parties, Agi Music argues that such
                     an argument does not rule out the possibility of an implied term incorporated into
                     contract and the Court would have to take cognizance of the entirety of the facts
                     and circumstances prior to coming to a decision on this account.
                              14. Having said all of the above, Mr.Ilaiyaraja prays that the prayers as per
                     C.S.No.625 of 2014 be granted and C.S.No.308 of 2013 be dismissed with
                     exemplary costs, Echo prays for a dismissal of C.S.No.625 of 2014, with exemplary
                     costs and Agi Music for a judgment and decree allowing C.S.No.308 of 2013
                     including an order for its restitution and a dismissal of C.S.No.625 of 2014 with
                     exemplary costs.
                              15. The following persons have been examined as witnesses:
                              Mr.R.Ilaiyaraja, plaintiff in C.S.No.625 of 2014 and D1 in C.S.No.304 of 2013
                     was examined as P.W.1, Mr.Agilan Lechaman, Managing Director of Agi Music was
                     examined as D.W.1 and Mr.P.Rajasekar, Authorised Representative of Echo was
                     examined as D.W.2.
                              16. The following exhibits have been marked by the respective parties:
                     List of Exhibits marked by the plaintiff in C.S.No.625 of 2014:-
                     Ex.A1- Plaintiff and Producer Council letter head dated 21.02.2014. Ex.A2- List of
                     Movies composed by the plaintiff issued by TN Film Producers Council. Ex.A3-
                     Defamation Complaint dated 22.05.2014 given by Fans Club of the plaintiff to the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             38
                     Commissioner of Police. Ex.A4- Postal Return Cover sent by plaintiff to the 1st
                     defendant dated 12.06.2014. Ex.A5- Postal Return Cover sent by plaintiff to the 4th
                     defendant dated 12.06.2014. Ex.A6-Notice dated 05.06.2014 of plaintiff to the 4 th
                     defendant. Ex.A7- Copy of Web Site Publication. Ex.A8- Copy of Statement of
                     accounts of the 4th defendant who have to settle the royalty amount of the years of
                     2007-2014. Ex.A9-Copy of the Catalogue. Ex.A10- Royalty paid to the plaintiff from
                     01.04.1984 to 31.03.1985. Ex.A11- Statement of Royalty dated 19.07.1986.
                     Exs.A12 to A32- Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty dated 23.01.1987,
                     19.02.1987, 27.02.1987, 09.03.1987, 10.03.1987, 12.03.1987, 27.03.1987,
                     01.04.1987, 08.04.1987, 30.04.1987, 06.05.1987, 14.05.1987, 19.05.1987,
                     25.06.1987, 03.07.1987, 06.07.1987, 09.07.1987, 18.07.1987, 03.08.1987,
                     27.08.1987, 12.09.1987. Ex.A33- Details of the Cheque Payment made to the
                     plaintiff dated 05.10.1987. Exs.A34 to A.40- Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection
                     with Royalty dated 15.10.1987, 27.10.1987, 05.11.1987, 07.11.1987, 16.11.1987,
                     27.11.1987, 15.12.1987. Ex.A41- Statement of Royalty from Jan. 1988 to Aug.
                     1988. Exs.A42 to A71- Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty dated
                     10.03.1988, 12.03.1988, 31.03.1988, 02.04.1988, 05.04.1988, 08.04.1988,
                     11.04.1988, 14.04.1988, 15.04.1988, 19.04.1988, 21.04.1988, 22.04.1988,
                     25.04.1988, 25.04.1988, 03.05.1988, 05.05.1988, 06.05.1988, 11.05.1988,
                     16.05.1988, 20.05.1988, 24.05.1988, 03.06.1988, 08.06.1988, 09.06.1988,
                     14.06.1988, 18.06.1988, 22.06.1988, 09.07.1988, 15.07.1988, 19.07.1988.
                     Ex.A72- Statement of Royalty from Sep. 1988 to Dec. 1988. Exs.A73 to A75-
                     Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with royalty dated 03.08.1988, 04.08.1988,
                     23.09.1988. Ex.A76 Dispatch Note from 06.10.1988 to 27.12.1988. Exs.A77 & A78
                     - Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty dated 15.10.1988 & 21.10.1988.
                     Ex.A79- Dispatch Note from 06.01.1989 to 14.03.1989. Ex.A80- Statement of
                     Royalty from Jan. 1989 to Mar. 1989. Exs.A81 to A.85- Invoice-Cum-Challan in
                     Connection with Royalty dated 13.01.1989, 21.02.1989, 28.02.1989, 06.03.1989,
                     15.05.1989. Ex.A86- Letter dated 16.05.1989 sent by plaintiff. Ex.A87- Invoice-
                     Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty dated 12.07.1989.
                     2. List of Exhibits marked by the defendant in C.S.No.625 of 2014:-
                     Ex.B.1 – Producer’s counsel letter in the letter head. Ex.B.2 – List of movies music
                     composed by Mr.Ilaiyaraja issued by TN Film Producers counsel. Ex.B.3- Complaint
                     given by one Mr.M.Ramesh to the Commissioner of Police, Egmore. Ex.B.4- Postal
                     return cover which has been sent to the first defendant’s counsel. Ex.B.5- Postal
                     return cover which has been sent to the fourth defendant’s counsel. Ex.B.6 – Office
                     copy of notice sent to the fourth defendant. Ex.B.7-Copy of web site publication.
                     Ex.B.8- copy of statement of accounts of the fourth defendant who have to settle
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             39
                     the royalty amount. Ex.B9.24.11.2007-Assignment agreement by the plaintiff in
                     favour of his wife. Ex.B10-24.11.2007 Sound recording licensing agreement.
                     Ex.B11- Sub publishing agreement 24.11.2007. Ex.B12- Letter of authorization by
                     the plaintiff in favour of the 4th defendant dated 24.11.2007. Ex.B13 Letter of
                     authorization by the plaintiffs wife in favour of the 4th defendant.         Ex.B14-
                     24.11.2007 CD signed by the plaintiff and his wife. Ex.B15- 06.01.2010-Let the
                     music play on “The Hindu” –Online Newspaper article. Ex.B16- 20.07.2012- SMS
                     screenshots between the plaintiff and the 4th defendant. Ex.B17-18.05.2010 Letter
                     for continuing membership by the 4th defendant with IPRS. Ex.B18-12.07.2011-
                     Letter to IPRS by the 4th defendant. Ex.B19-06.01.2010-Addendum No:1 and list of
                     songs. Ex.B20- 03.02.2010 Blog post of the managing director of the 4th defendant
                     company. Ex.B21- 12.07.2011-Letter of authorization. Ex.B22-11.12.2013- Notice
                     for the plaintiff to the 4th defendant’s advocate and reply. Exs.B23 and B24-
                     01.04.1992 Deed of partnership entered into between the plaintiff, his wife and son.
                     Ex.B25-immigration stamping in Mr.Agilan’s Passport. Ex.B26-15.10.2004 to
                     23.09.2013-Statement of royalties paid by the 4th defendant. Ex.B30-Authorisation
                     Letter. Ex.B31-09.12.1987 Paasa Paravaigal-Poombhar Production. Ex.32-
                     08.10.1981 Payanangal Mudivathillail-Motherland Pictures. Ex.33-22.11.1989-Keladi
                     Kanmani-Vivek Chitra. Ex.B34- 02.07.1990- Enn Rasavin Manasile-Redsun Art
                     Creations. Ex.B35 01.06.1983-Oru Odai Nadhiyagiradhu-Chitralaya Movies. B36-
                     17.10.1988 Varusham 16-Ganga Chitra. Ex.B37- 16.05.1990-Gopura Vasalile-Arul
                     Nidhi arts. Ex.B38-03.10.1985 Padum Paravaigal-K.R.Cine Arts. Ex.B39-14.06.1990
                     Michel Madhan Kamarajan-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B40- 12.09.1990-Nadigan-Raj
                     Film International. Ex.B41.27.12.1990-Dharmadurai-Rasi Kalamandhir. Ex.B42-
                     07.02.1991-Chinna Thambi-K.B.Films. Ex.B43-14.06.1990 Captain Prabahkaran-
                     I.V.Cini Productions. Ex.B44- 22.03.1989-Siva-Kavithaalayaa Productions. Ex.B45—
                     08.11.1989-Kizhakku Vasal-Sathya Jothi Films. Ex.B46-09.05.1988-Dharmathin
                     Thalaivan-Dhandayuthapani Films. Ex.B47-20.12.1990-Kaval Geetham-Vasan
                     Brothers. Ex.B48- 23.01.1991-Vetri Padigal-Chitramahal & S.A.Enterprises. Ex.B49-
                     23.02.1982-Pudhu Kavithai-Kavithaalaya. Ex.B50-23.05.1990 My Dear Marthandan-
                     Sivaji Productions. Ex.B51-10.06.1990 Adhisiya Piravi-Sri Lakshmi Productions.
                     Ex.B52- 19.05.1986-Maaveeran-Padmalaya Pictures/R.K.Productions. Ex.B53-
                     24.06.1988-Pick Pocket- K.B.Films. Ex.B54 01.02.1990-En Uyir Thozhan-B.R. Art
                     Films. Ex.B.55- 18.11.1989 Anjali-Sujatha Productions. Ex.B56- 14.03.1988-
                     Gayathiri Films. Ex. B57- 03.02.1990 Mallu Veati Minor -Everest Films. Ex.B58-
                     14.06.1990-Pudhu       Paatu-Ilaiyaraaja  Creations.   Ex.B59-05.08.1989-Thalattu
                     Paadava- Rawoothar Films. Ex.B60-28.03.1988- Guru Sishyan-P.A.Art Productions.
                     Ex.B.61-07.11.1986-Kadal Parisu-Sathya Movies. Ex.B62- 07.11.1986-Mandhira
                     Punagai-Sathya Movies. Ex.B63-17.01.1989-Vaathiyar Veetu Pillai-Raja Films
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             40
                     International. Ex.B.64 -24.07.1990-Sirayil Sila Raagangal-Sri Lakshmi Vani Pictures.
                     Ex.B65-14.12.1990 Pudhu Nellu Pudhu Naathu-Mookambikai Cine Arts. Ex.B66-
                     21.11.1986-Ninaive       Oru     Sangeetham-V.N.S.Films.        Ex.B67-15.06.1989-
                     Thiruppumunai-B.K.Enterprises. Ex.B68-02.12.1989-Orru Vittu Orru Vandhu-
                     S.P.T.Films. Ex.B69 26.03.1983-Adutha Varisu-Dwarakesh Chitra. Ex.B.70-
                     14.11.1990-Thanthu Viten Ennai-Chitraalaya Movies. Ex.B71-25.11.1987-Poonthota
                     Kaavalkaran-Tamil Annai Cine Creations. Ex.B72-25.06.1989-Engitta Mothathe-
                     Rajeswari Productions. Ex.B73-11.05.1990-Mownam Sammadham-Kaycee Films
                     Combines. Ex.B74-23.09.1985-Aan Paavam-Alamu Movies. Ex.B.75. Ex.B75-
                     04.11.1988-En Purushan Enakku Mattumthan-Manthraalaya Cine Creations.
                     Ex.B76-10.09.1984-Thendrale Ennai Thodu-Devi Royal Productions. Ex.B77-
                     14.02.1990-Unnai Solli Kutramillai-Kavithaalayaa Productions. Ex.B78-27.04.1985-
                     Poove Poochudava-Navodhaya Films. Ex.B79-31.12.1983 Nooravadhu Naal-
                     Thirupathy Samy Pictures. Ex.B80-30.11.1983- Idhayakoil-Motherland Pictures.
                     Ex.B81-30.11.1983-Naan Padum Padal-Motherland Pictures. Ex.B82-30.11.1983
                     Udhaya Geetham- Motherland Pictures. Ex.B83-30.11.1983. Unnai Naan
                     Santhithen- Motherland Pictures. Ex.B84-08.10.1981-Thanikaatu Raaja-Suresh
                     Productions. Ex.B85-09.09.1986-Sippikul Muthu-Poornodhaya Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B86- 14.03.1985-Naan Sigappu Manithan-Lakshmi Productions. Ex.B87-
                     24.03.1990 Sir I Love You-Jagan Mohini Films. Ex.B88-02.06.1983-Thangamagan-
                     Sathya Movies. Ex.B89-28.06.1985-Padikkathavan-Sree Eswari Productions.
                     Ex.B90-14.08.1990-Eeramana       Rojave-Kayar     Enterprises.   Ex.B91-17.08.1990
                     Thangamalai Thirudan-Vijayalakshmi Art Pictures. Ex.B92-03.02.1990-Manidha
                     Jathi-Everest Films. Ex.B93-10.03.1982- Kadhal Oviyam-Manoj Creations. Ex.B94-
                     26.04.1985-Kadalora Kavithaigal-Mookambika Art Creations. Ex.B95-15.12.1982-
                     Vellai Roja-Film Co. Ex.B96-27.02.1990 Pudhiya Raagam-Ambrish Pictures. Ex.B97-
                     04.08.1989-Pulan Visaranai-I.V.Cine Productions. Ex.B98-03.07.1985 Kannukku
                     Maiezhudhu-Bluemoon Movies. Ex.B99-03.06.1986-Rettai Vaal Kuruvi-Sagar
                     Combines.       Ex.B100-29.08.1985-Vikram-Rajkamal       International.    Ex.B101-
                     19.08.1987-Kannukkoru Vannakili-Sarvam Combines. Ex.B.102-24.04.1985-Chinna
                     Veedu-Jaya Vijaya Movies. Ex.B103-23.07.1989-Padicha Pulla-Sri Chowdeshwari
                     Pictures. Ex.B104-15.11.1986-Jallikattu-Seetha Lakshmi Art Films. Ex.B105-
                     08.02.1989-Pattukku Oru Thalaivan-Tamil Annai Cine Creations. Ex.B106-
                     26.11.1986 Chinna Thambi Periya Thambi-Chemba Creations. Ex.B107. 17.08.1989
                     Pattukku Naan Adimai-Sree Misri Films. Ex.B108-10.05.1985-Kungumachimzh-Sun
                     Flower     Creations.   Ex.B109-15.12.1989-Arangetravelai-Sunitha       Productions.
                     Ex.B110-14.07.1986-En Jeevan Paaduthu-Panchu Associates. Ex.B111-10.09.1987-
                     Anand-Sivaji Productions. Ex.B112-12.12.1984-Pagal Nilavu-Sathya Jothi Films.
                     Ex.B113-27.01.1986 Neethana        Andha Kuyil-Kaladharsun Films. Ex.B114-
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             41
                     11.12.1981-Manvasanai-Gayathri Films. Ex.B115-28.03.1984-Thavani Kanavugal-
                     Parveena Film Circuit. Ex.B116-24.11.1986-Paadu Nilave-Krishnalayaa Productions.
                     Ex.B117-23.06.1983-Magudi-S.N.S.Productions. Ex.B118-01.08.1990-Raaja Kaiya
                     Vacha-Aanandhi Films. Ex.B119-24.02.1990 En Arugil Nee Irundhal-Tamil Thai
                     Movies. Ex.B120-16.01.1989-Pandi Nattu Thangam-Meenakshi Arts. Ex.B121-
                     18.05.1988-Enga Ooru Kavakkaran-Meenakshi Arts. Ex.B122- 04.08.1989-Ponmana
                     Selvan-V.N.S.Films.    Ex.B123-27.01.1990-Kavidhai      Padum     Alaigal-K.B.Arts.
                     Ex.B124-11.06.1984-Sadhanai-Pragaas        Productions.      Ex.B125-31.03.1985-
                     Dharmapathini-Sree Shanmugalaaya. Ex.B126-21.01.1985-Urimai-Mah Creations.
                     Ex.B127-30.11.1985-December Pookkal-Shri N.R.K.Cine Arts. Ex.B128-14.04.1986-
                     Manidhanin Marupakkam-Sathya Jothi Films. Ex.B129-07.03.1984-Nalla Naal-Devar
                     Films. Ex.B130-21.02.1985-Naane Raja Naane Mandhiri-Appu Movies. Ex.B131-
                     18.03.1985-Karimedu Karuvayan-Meenakshi Arts. Ex.B132-05.10.1985-Naanum
                     Oru Thozhilali-Chitraalaya Movies. Ex.B133-08.01.1990-Indhiran Chandhiran-
                     Eknath Movie Creations. Ex.B134-19.11.1984-Padikatha Pannaiyar-Karpaga
                     Lakshmi     Pictures.  Ex.B135-24.08.1984-Raajarishi-Bhairavi    Films.    ExB136-
                     22.06.1987-Manathil     Uruthy   Vendum-Kavithalaiya      Productions.    Ex.B137-
                     16.06.1983-Kanni Rasi-Vikranth Creations. Ex.B138-19.03.1984-Kai Rasi Karan-
                     S.K.S.Films. Ex.B139-13.10.1986-Krishnan Vandhan-S.L.S.Productions. Ex.B140-
                     09.09.1983-Nilavu Suduvadhillai-Raja Rajeswari Cine Arts. Ex.B141-02.05.1987-
                     Oruvar Vazhum Aalaiyam-Royal Cine Creations. Ex.B142-23.02.1982-Kozhi
                     Koovuthu-Pavalar Creations. Ex.B143-04.04.1984-Aduthathu Albert-Kumaravel
                     Films.    Ex.B144-06.01.1989-kavalukku      Kettikaran-Thiraikoodam.      Ex.B145-
                     12.03.1986-Aruvadai Naal-Sivaji Productions. Ex.B146-10.06.1989-Anbu Kattalai-
                     Gayathri Cine Arts. Ex.B147-01.03.1986-Ennai Vittu Pogathe-Sree Kanaga Dhara
                     Art Films. Ex.B148-05.06.1982 Ilamai Kalangal-Mother Land Pictures. Ex.B149-
                     23.02.1982-Kanne Radha-Charu Chitra Films. Ex.B150-22.08.1986-Poovizhi
                     Vasalile-Lakshmi Priya Combines. ExB151-25.03.1987-Ninaikka Therintha Maname-
                     Siva Dharani Movies. Ex.B152-25.06.1988-Enna Petha Raasa-Red Sun Art
                     Creations. Ex.B153-03.06.1987- Shenbagame Shenbagame-Sree Lakshmana Films.
                     ExB154-28.02.1990-Periya      Veetu   Panakkaran-Meenakshi       Arts.    Ex.B155-
                     16.11.1988-Enga Ooru Maapillai-V.N.R.Creations. Ex.B156-17.12.1990-Kumbakara
                     Thangaya-Murugan Cine Arts. ExB157-09.03.1988-Naan Sonnathe Sattam-Sree
                     Mandharaalaya Chitraalaya. Ex.B158-06.02.1986-Manaivi Ready-Rathnam Art
                     Movies. ExB159-04.11.1988-Annanukku Jae-Sree Vijaya Jagathambal Movies.
                     Ex.B160-01.02.1985-Jappanil           Kalyanaraman-P.A.Art             Productions.
                     Ex.B161.12.06.1990-Sami Potta Mudichu-Tamil Annai Cine Creations. Ex.B162-
                     27.02.1985-Annai Bhoomi-Devar Films. Ex.B163-15.05.1986-Ullam Kavarntha
                     Kalvan-Appu Movies. Ex.B164-03.07.1987-Gramathu Minnal-Sree Krishnaalaya
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                            42
                     Arts. Ex.B.165-14.10.1988-Dharmam Vellum-Kalachithra. Ex.B.166-13.10.1988
                     Paadatha Theaneekal-Poombuhar Productions. Ex.B167-05.09.1985-Isai Padum
                     Thendral-N.C.Creations. Ex.B168-03.11.1982-Aayiram Nilave Vaa-New Wave
                     Pictures. Ex.B169-20.11.1985 Sirai Paravai-Mandraalaya Cine Creations. Ex.B170-
                     19.05.1985-Geethanjali-Pavalar Creations. Ex.171-13.04.1984-Eeti-Vivekananda
                     Pictures. Ex.B172-13.10.1988-Thendral Sudum-G.B.Art Combines. Ex.B173-
                     29.05.1987-Iniya     Uravu   Poothathu-Rajakaliyamman     Productions.  Ex.B174-
                     26.01.1983-Ezuthatha Sattangal-Siva Shankar Creations. Ex.B175-04.11.1988-
                     Ninaivu Chinnam-Tamil Nadu Movies. Ex.B.176-10.11.1982-Mudivalla Aarambam-
                     N.M.Enterprises. Ex.B177- 15.05.1989-Marudhupandi-Ponmanam Films. Ex.B178-
                     03.02.1982-Ninaivellam Nithya-Siva Sakthi Films. Ex.B.179 24.06.1983-Ullam
                     Urugudhadi-Ganesa Arts. Ex.B180-29.10.1983-Komberi Mookkan-Lakshmi Santhi
                     Movies. Ex.B181-11.02.1987-Chinna Kuyil Paaduthu-Karpagam Films. Ex.B182-
                     02.02.1987-Ore Oru Gramathile-Aries Enterprises. Ex.B183-30.12.1986-Illam-
                     M.L.G.Creations. Ex.B.184-21.08.1984-Pudhir-Kamadhenu Art Films. Ex.B185-
                     13.07.1990-Thanga Thamaraigal-Gangai Film Circuit. Ex.B186-31.10.1986-
                     Alapirandhavan-Prakash Productions. Ex.B187-23.06.1983-Pozhuthu Vidinjachu-
                     Suraj Enterprises. Ex.B188- 24.11.1983-Alai Osai-Thirumal Cine Films. Ex.B189-
                     04.07.1984-Raaja Gopuram-Sree Jayanthi Cine. Ex.B190-24.07.1989-Pondati
                     Thevai-Vivek    Chithra.   Ex.B191-09.05.1983-Anne    Anne-Kalaivani.   Ex.B192-
                     20.09.1984-Selvi-Dhandayuthapani         Films.      Ex.B193-12.03.1984-Anbulla
                     Rajinikanth-S.T.Combines. Ex.B194-23.02.1983-Anbe Odi Vaa-K.R.Art Pictures.
                     Ex.B195-14.04.1984 Kaikodukkum Kai-Sree Ragavendhiras. Ex.B.196-30.08.1987-
                     Irandil Ondru-S.P.T.Films. Ex.B197-11.03.1983-Kokkarako-Pavalar Creations.
                     Ex.B198-09.07.1986 Vazhga Valarga-Niruma Creations. Ex.B199-16.07.1986
                     Salangayil     Sangeedham-Suprajeet.       Ex.B200-11.06.1988-Paarthal     Pasu-
                     C.R.Productions.    Ex.B201-05.10.1985-Maragadha     Veenai-Naveena.    Ex.B202-
                     08.02.1986- Thaikku Oru Thaalattu-K.R.G.Films Circuit. Ex.B203-27.01.1984-Anbin
                     Mugavari-Sree Meenakshi Productions. Ex.B204-25.07.1989-Raaja Raajathan-
                     Dhanisha Pictures. Ex.B205-26.06.1990-Amman Koil Thiruvizha-Sree Bairavi
                     Combines.     Ex.B206-15.05.1989-Pagalil    Pournami-Kalpana     Arts.  Ex.B207-
                     16.10.1982-Malayoora Mammattiyan-Sree Devi Bhagavathi Films. Ex.B208-
                     16.10.1982-Meendum Parasakthi-Sree Devi Bhagavathi Films. Ex.B209-06.04.1983
                     Ennai Paar En Azhagai Paar-Crown Films. Ex.B210-02.09.1985 Iravu Pookkal-Sree
                     Siva Hari Films. Ex.B211-06.09.1982-Anbulla Malare-V.V.Combains. Ex.B212-
                     23.02.1982-Ethanai Konam Ethanai Paarvai-V.M.Movies. Ex.B213-12.05.1982-Jothi-
                     Thai Creations. Ex.B214-19.05.1982-Kavithai Malar-S.M.Creations. Ex.B215-
                     28.01.1985-Thazhuvadha       Kaigal-Swarnamiga    Movies.    Ex.B216-19.09.1981-
                     Moondram Pirai-Sathya Jothi Films. Ex.B217-08.10.1981-Aanadha Raagam-Panchu
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             43
                     Arts. Ex.B218-27.09.1981-Thai Mookambikai-Siva Shankar Creations. Ex.B219-
                     24.07.1985-Mudhal Mariyadhai-Manoj Creations. Ex.B220-25.05.1989-Siraiyil
                     Pootha Chinna Malar-Sree Thirumala Cine. Ex.B221-06.06.1983-Manaivi Sollae
                     Mandiram-Everest Films. Ex.B222- 31.05.1983-Meendum Oru Kathal Kathai-Artist
                     Corporation. Ex.B223-12.02.1983-Veetiley Raman Veliyile Krishnan-Panchu Movies.
                     Ex.B224-07.02.1983-Yuha Dharmam-Karpagam Studious. Ex.B225-06.10.1982-Nee
                     Thodum Pothu-Devi Moogambigai Films. Ex.B226-18.08.1982-Antha Sila Naattkal-
                     Movie Mogambiga. Ex.B227-26.01.1983-Ragangal Maruvathillai-Vasan Productions.
                     Ex.B.228-29.04.1982-Magane Magane-Panchu Movies. Ex.B229-15.04.1982-Muthu
                     Engal    Sothu-Parameshwari      Enterprises.   Ex.B230-15.04.1982-Raani     Theni-
                     Parameshwari Enterprises. Ex.B231-18.05.1982-Gopurangal Saivathillai-Everest
                     Films. Ex.B232-14.12.1981-Kansivanthal Mansivakkum-Cine India. Ex.B233-
                     30.10.1981-Manjal NIlla-Manikkam Films. Ex.B234-08.10.1981-Bhagavathypuram
                     Railway Gate-S.P.Creations. Ex.B235-08.10.1981-Nizhal Thedum Nenjangal-Siva
                     Chithra Pictures. Ex.B236-08.10.1981-Kelviyyum Naane Pathilum Naane-
                     S.T.Combines. Ex.B237-17.09.1982-Indru Nee Naalai Naan-Geetha Kamalam
                     Movies. Ex.B238-03.12.1984-Unnai Thedi Varuven-K.R.G.Films Circuit. Ex.B239-
                     24.09.1984-Pillai Nila-Kalai Mani Movies. Ex.B240-15.09.1982-Geetha Vazhipaadu-
                     D.Raja. Ex.B241-31.08.1984-January 1 –P.N.R.Pictures. Ex.B242-29.02.1984-
                     Needhiyin Marupakkam-V.V.Creations. Ex.B243-30.12.1983-Neram Nalla Neram-
                     V.R.Movies. Ex.B244-12.11.1983-Murattu Karangal-Hem Nag Films. Ex.B245-
                     09.09.1983-Thalaiyanai       Mandhiram-Naveena       Films.    Ex.B246-17.08.1983-
                     Kannathorakkanum Saamy-Punidha Cine Arts. Ex.B247-04.12.1985-Enakku Naane
                     Nidhipathi-K.C.Films.   Ex.B248-07.07.1985-Unakkagave        Vazhgiren-Krishnaalaya
                     Productions.   Ex.B249-22.11.1984-My       Dear    Kuttichathan-Navodhaya     Films.
                     Ex.B250-23.03.1985-Thangamama-Film Co. Ex.B251-30.08.1987-Sakkarai Panthal-
                     Meenakchi Arts. Ex.B252-12.06.1987-Kadamai Kanniyam Kattuppaadu-Raj Kamal
                     Films   International.   Ex.B253-22.05.1987-Puyal       Paadum    Paattu-Poombuhar
                     Productions. Ex.B254-22.12.1986-Dhoorathu Pachai-Sree Lakshmi Art Movies.
                     Ex.B255-25.03.1986-Africavil     Appu-Sree     Rajeswari     Creations.   Ex.B.256-
                     29.06.1989-Thangamana Raasa-Rekha Movies. Ex.B257-29.06.1989-Kaiveesamma
                     Kaiveesu-M.B.C.Arts. Ex.B258-14.10.1988-Manamagale Vaa-Raja Enterprises.
                     Ex.B259-18.05.1988-Irumbu Pookkal-Pushpalaaya Movies. Ex.B260-02.01.1988-En
                     Uyir Kannamma-S.K.S.Films Creations. Ex.B261-30.01.1991-Pudhiya Swarangal-
                     Lalitha Anjeneya Combines. Ex.B262-14.12.1990-Kadhal Devathai-Vijayanthi
                     Movies. Ex.B263-01.10.1990-Edhir Katru-Muktha Films. Ex.B264-18.09.1990-Unnai
                     Vazhthi Paadukirean-Mother Land Pictures. Ex.B265-05.07.1990 Unnai Nenachean
                     Paattu Padichaen-Sri Pathmavathi Movie Maker. Ex.B266-20.10.1982-Mella
                     Pesungal-Kanya Creations. Ex.B267-16.03.1985-Natpu-Veeralakshmi Combines.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 44
                     Ex.B268-07.10.1982-En Selvame-M.A.M.Films. Ex.B269-14.12.1981-Agaya Gangai-
                     Srini Enterprises. Ex.B270-01.02.1982-Saattai Illa Bhambaram-Punidha Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B271- 23.01.1983-Oomai Veyil-Dimple Creations. Ex.B272-28.03.1983-Devi
                     Sridevi-Abhi Arts. Ex.B273-14.11.1983-Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt.
                     Ltd. Ex.B274-17.08.1984-Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts. Ex.B275-08.11.1984-
                     Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films. Ex.B276-04.08.1990-Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar
                     Cine Arts. Ex.B277-26.06.1990 Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations. Ex.B278-
                     26.06.1990-Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.B279-31.5.1990 Vetri Karangal-A
                     Lotus Film Company. Ex.B280-13.07.1989-Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-Dhuruva       Natchathiram-Premier    Production.  Ex.B282-
                     12.02.1990-Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions. Ex.B283-10.11.1982-
                     Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies. Ex.B284-18.11.1981-Nalladhu
                     Nadandhe      Theerum-K.N.Films.   Ex.B285-15.11.1982-Thangamadi     Thangam-
                     Vasanthaalayam. Ex.B286- 31.10.1986-Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-
                     10.03.1981-Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989-Paasa
                     Mazhai-Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986-Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     Enterprises.
                              17. On the basis of the pleadings, the following issues and additional issues
                     have been framed in each suit:
                     Issues in C.S.No.308 of 2013:
                              1. Has the 1st Defendant assigned his copyright in relation to the
                              songs which are the subject matter of this Suit to his wife vide
                              Assignment Agreement dated 24.11.2007 and if so, what is the
                              period of assignment?
                              2. Did the 1st defendant’s wife (as an assignee of the 1st Defendant)
                              and the Plaintiff enter into a Sound Recording Licensing Agreement
                              (“SRLA”) dated 24.11.2007 and if so what was the period of such
                              Agreement?
                              3. Does Section 19(5) of the Copyrights Act apply to the present
                              facts?
                              4. Is this a fit case to read in an implied term into the Assignment
                              Agreement in relation to the term of the Agreement?
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                    45
                              5. Has the 1st Defendant breached the terms of the Assignment
                              Agreement dated 24.11.2007 and/or SRLA?
                              6. Has the 2nd Defendant infringed the copyright which was
                              exclusively granted by the 1st Defendant’s wife to the Plaintiff?
                              7. Should the 2nd Defendant be restrained from breaching the
                              negative covenant contained in Clause 2 of the SRLA?
                              8. Is the Plaintiff entitled to the reliefs sought for?
                     Issues in C.S.No.625 of 2014:
                              1. Whether the suit is barred by law in view of the provisions of the
                              Copyright Act, 1957 especially with regard to “sound recordings”?
                              2. What is the role played by the plaintiff in the schedule
                              mentioned “cinematograph films” and whether that role entitles
                              him to any right over the said film songs and sound recordings
                              under the Copyrights Act, 1957?
                              3. Whether the plaintiff is the “owner” of the “sound recordings” in
                              the schedule mentioned films?
                              4. Whether the 2nd defendant has obtained rights of the “sound
                              recordings” from various producers of the movies mentioned in
                              “Annexure 1” of the Written Statement?
                              5.   Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any relief against the 2nd
                              defendant in view of the agreement entered into between the 2nd
                              defendant and the various producers of the movies mentioned in
                              “Annexure 1” of the Written Statement?
                              6. Whether the 2nd defendant is entitled to exploit the rights over
                              the “sound recordings” with regard to songs/music of the movies
                              mentioned in “Annexure 1” of the Written Statement?
                              7. Whether the Suit is liable for misjoinder of parties and whether
                              the plaint discloses any nexus between the defendants?
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  46
                              8. Whether the agreement between the plaintiff and his wife and
                              consequently the agreement between the plaintiff’s wife and the 4th
                              defendant is valid in the eye of law?
                              9. Has the plaintiff assigned his copyright in relation to the songs
                              which are the subject matter of this suit to his wife vide
                              Assignment Agreement dated 24.11.2007 and if so, what is the
                              period of assignment?
                              10. Did the plaintiff’s wife (as an assignee of the plaintiff) and the
                              4th defendant enter into a Sound Recording Licensing Agreement
                              (“SRLA”) dated 24.11.2007 and if so what was the period of such
                              Agreement?
                              11. Does Section 19(5) of the Copyrights Act apply to the present
                              facts?
                              12. Has the plaintiff breached the terms of the Assignment
                              Agreement dated 24.11.2007 and/or SRLA?
                              14. To what other reliefs, the parties are entitled to?
                              18. Though extensive arguments have been advanced on agency, stating
                     that Mrs.Jeevaraja would constitute an agent of Mr.Ilaiyaraja, no issue has been
                     framed in regard to this. In the light of the provisions of order XIV Rule 3, I thus
                     proceed to frame an additional issue thus.
                              ‘Is Mrs.Jeevaraja is an agent of Mr.Ilaiyaraja for the purposes of the
                     transaction between herself and Agi Music’.
                              19. Before I commence with the discussion and conclusions on the issues
                     framed, certain incidental points have been raised by both parties that, I believe,
                     are not intrinsic to the legal issues raised or to the conclusions thereupon. One such
                     is the absence of reference to the Assignment Agreement, SRLA and the SPA in the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 47
                     plaint of Mr.Ilaiyaraja leading Agi Music to allege suppression as well as the
                     argument of Mr.Ilaiyaraja that the documents relied upon by Agi Music are forged.
                     Having stated so, he does not pursue the argument by seeking reference of the
                     documents to forensic examination. References have also been made by Agi Music
                     as well as Mr.Ilaiyaraja to text messages exchanged to which I have not adverted in
                     the narration. This is for the reason that it is the legal issues that have been
                     pursued seriously by the parties in the course of the hearing and not the above
                     fringe issues that are wholly immaterial to determine the crux of the suits. Thus, I
                     restrict the discussions and conclusions to only the legal issues that arise and that
                     have been argued before me. In any event, no issues have been framed in regard
                     to the fringe issues and a determination of the same is thus unnecessary.
                              20. Many of the issues overlap and can be bifurcated into three (3) distinct
                     groups relating to a single issue each. I have hence demarcated the same into
                     three (3) separate sets.
                              21. The first set of issues is really the crux of the 2nd suit and a decision
                     thereupon would address the allocation of the rights under the Act to the various
                     stakeholders engaged in the creation and production of a cinematograph film,
                     specifically, the producer, though not a party before me, and the music composer.
                              1. Whether the suit is barred by law in view of the provisions of the
                              Copyright Act, 1957 especially with regard to “sound recordings”?
                              2. What is the role played by the plaintiff in the schedule
                              mentioned “cinematograph films” and whether that role entitles
                              him to any right over the said film songs and sound recordings
                              under the Copyrights Act, 1957?
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  48
                              3. Whether the plaintiff is the “owner” of the “sound recordings” in
                              the schedule mentioned films?
                              4. Whether the 2nd defendant has obtained rights of the “sound
                              recordings” from various producers of the movies mentioned in
                              “Annexure 1” of the Written Statement?
                              22. The second set of issues touches upon the interpretation of the statutory
                     provisions in order to determine the rights that vest in each of the parties. The
                     questions raised are, who can be said to be ‘owner’ of the ‘sound recording’ and
                     whether Echo has obtained any right in respect of the ‘sound recordings’ from the
                     producers of the scheduled films. For this purpose, one would have to examine the
                     sample agreement entered into by Echo with a production company and I extract
                     hereunder an agreement entered into by Echo with a production company in
                     respect of the film ‘Paasapparavaigal’, as a sample, all agreements filed along with
                     suit being similar/identical to the same:
                                        ‘An Agreement made this 9th day of December 1987 between ECHO
                                 Recording Co. having its Office at Cisons Complex 2nd floor, 150, Montieth
                                 Road, Egmore, Madras – 600 008, herein after called “ The Company”
                                 (which expression shall mean and include its successors and assigns)of
                                 the One Par and
                                                      M/S.POOMPUHAR PRODUCTIONS,
                                                      No.7, Second Street,
                                                      South Gopalapuram,
                                                      Madras – 600 086.
                                 Hereinafter called “The Producer” which expression shall include his/her
                                 successors, his/her heirs, executors, administrators and assigns] of the
                                 Other Part.
                                 WHEREAS:
                              a) The Producer is actively engaged, inter alia in producing cinematograph
                                 films:
                              b) The Company is actively engaged, inter alia, in the manufacture,
                                 marketing and sale of records, and pre-recorded cassettes.
                              c) The Producer is desirous to assign and transfer to the Company, the rights
                                 hereinafter mentioned:
                                 NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED by and between the parties hereto as follows:
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 49
                               INTERPRETATION: In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
                               admits the following expressions shall have the meanings assigned to
                               them:
                              (a)     “Cinematograph film, “work”, “musical work”, “literary work”,
                                      “dramatic work”, “artistic work” shall have the meanings assigned
                                      to them by the provision of the Copyright Act, 1957;
                              (b)     “record” includes any disc, tape perforated roll and all other devices
                                      (Now or hereafter Known) in which sounds and/or visual images are
                                      embodied for reproduction therefrom by any means whatsoever,
                                      including electrical, mechanical or magnetic means, or by devices
                                      commonly known as audiovisual devices, with the exception of
                                      cinematograph film, of any guage, as used in movie theatres;
                              (c)     “recording” means the aggregate of the sounds and/or visual
                                      images embodied in, and capable of, being reproduced by means of
                                      record;
                              (d)     “performance” includes any mode of presentation by the use of
                                      record and shall include such presentation by means of radio
                                      diffusion;
                              (e)     “radio diffusion” includes communication to the public by means of
                                      wireless or cable diffusion, whether in the form of sound or visual
                                      images or both:
                              (f)     “reproduction” shall include, in relation to the recording, storing of
                                      such recording in any device by means of which it can be perceived
                              (g)     “original recording” shall include stereotype, tape, film, soundtrack,
                                      original plate, block, mould, matrix, transfer, negative or any other
                                      device used or intended to be used for making records.
                               All other expressions shall have the meaning assigned to them under the
                               Copyright Act, 1957, or the statutory modification thereof for the time
                               being in force and the meaning assigned to them thereunder.
                               2.the Producer hereby assigns and transfer to the Company, absolutely,
                               free from all encumbrance without any limitation for the entire world the
                               copyright in so far as it extends to the exclusive right to make records
                               from recording embodied in:-
                                       (i) the cinematograph film(s) entitled, or indentified as:
                                                      ‘PAASAPPARAVAIGAL’
                                       (ii) the original recordings of any music or musical, literary,
                               dramatic and/or artistic work(s) which may have been recorded by, or for,
                               the PRODUCER for the purpose of, and/or with the intent of, incorporating
                               the same in the above cinematograph film(s) irrespective whether or not
                               the same is/are so incorporated in the final version(s) of the
                               cinematograph film(s)
                                       (iii) The Company has this day paid 1001/- (Rupees one thousand
                               and one only) as part consideration on the Royalty Agreement.
                               3. The right(s) hereby assigned and/or agreed to be assigned and
                               transferred to the Company in the cinematograph film(s) and/or original
                               recording(s) as stated under 2(i) and (iii) above shall stand assigned and
                               transferred in favour of the Company protanto upon the completion of the
                               whole or part of the cinematograph films(s) /original recordings(s) and
                               shall include the right to publish and the reproduction rights thereof.
                               4. Forthwith upon completion of whole or part of the cinematograph
                               film(s)/original recordings(s), the Producer shall, at his expense, deliver
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 50
                              to, and supply, the Company with such cinematograph film(S)/original
                              recording(s), in whole or part, in order to enable the Company to make
                              records there from.
                              5. The copyright assigned and/or agreed to be assigned and transferred to
                              the Company hereunder shall vest in the Company the exclusive rights
                              which may be vested in the owner of copyright by virtue of, and subject to
                              the provisions of, the Copyright Act, 1957, or the statutory modification
                              thereof for the time being in force, as also those recognised by the
                              relevant International Conventions and shall include, but not be limited to,
                              the exclusive right to do, or authorise the doing of, any other following
                              acts:-
                                      (i) to make any other record embodying the same recording;
                                      (ii) to reproduce any or all recording(s) covered by this agreement
                              on record together with any other work(s);
                                      (iii) to cause or permit performance of the recording(s) embodied
                              in the records in public, and/or to publish the musical, literary dramatic
                              and/or artistic work(s) embodied in the recording(s);
                                      (iv) to communicate the recording(s) embodied in the record by
                              radio diffusion;
                                 v) to manufacture, market, sell, lease, licence, distribute, advertise,
                              promote or otherwise exploit in any manner in any fields of use, records
                              produced hereunder, and allow others to do so, at such prices and upon
                              such terms and conditions, and under such trade mark(s) or label(s) or
                              name(s) as the Company shall desire:
                                      (vi) to control the physical property of the original recording(s).
                              Reference to the doing of any act referred to above, or to refraining
                              therefrom, shall include reference to the doing of, or refraining from, the
                              act in relation to either the whole or part of the recording(s)/record(s).
                              6. The Producer hereby warrants and covenants with the Company as
                              follows:-
                                      (a) that the copyright assigned and transferred, or agreed to be
                              assigned or transferred, or intended to be so, hereunder, shall at all
                              times, prior to its being vested in the Company hereunder be the sole and
                              exclusive right of the Producer, free from all encumbrances;
                                      (b) to have obtained approval and/or consent of the author(s) and
                              performer(s) or any other person(s) participating in any work(s) which is
                              /are incorporated in the cinematograph film(s) and/or the original
                              recording(s) recognising the respective copyright and the exclusive
                              right(s) assigned and transferred to the Company hereunder.                 The
                              Producer further indemnifies, and holds indemnified, the Company against
                              all and any claims and damages arising out of the exercise of right(s)
                              assigned and transferred to the Company in this regard;
                                      (c) to deliver to the Company photograph(s) or other likeness(es)
                              of the artist(s), performer(s) and the author(s) whose work(s) may have
                              been incorporated in the cinematograph film(s) and/or original
                              recording(s), together with their respective biographical material, with the
                              right to Company, accompanied, if so desired by the Company, by letters
                              of consent of such artist(s) performer(s) and author(s) to use the
                              photograph(s) or other likeness(es) or biographical material for
                              advertising and publicity and for all record sleeves and for any other
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                51
                              matter connected with the making, distribution, marketing and sale of
                              records;
                                      (d) to provide to the Company, at request, the Producer’s logos,
                              trademarks, stylized lettering/designs etc. relating to the cinematograph
                              film(s)/original recording(s) for incorporating them on the labels, covers
                              sleeves, catalogues, etc. of, and for advertising the records, and to grant
                              to the Company the right to do so;
                                      (e) not to do, either during the period of the Agreement or at any
                              time thereafter, any act or thing which may in any manner affect or
                              prejudice the right of the Company hereunder.
                                      (f) to supply, simultaneously with or prior to, the delivery of each
                              cinematograph film/original recording, to the Company in writing the
                              correct title(s), Score(s) etc., of the work(s) recorded therein, and the
                              names of the author(s) and composer(s) thereof, together with any
                              additional information such as the names of recording artists(s), year and
                              place of such original recording etc.
                              7. (a) In full consideration of the assignment and transfer of rights by the
                              Producer to the Company under the Agreement the Company shall pay to
                              the Producer an all-in-royalty in respect of all records manufactured, sold
                              and not returned hereunder and calculated on the Company’s domestic
                              dealer price.
                              (exclusive of sales taxes, excise duty, octroi and other taxes and duties
                              levied and less a packaging deduction 20% of the dealer price for pre-
                              recorded tapes).       The all-in-royalty shall be for each half-yearly
                              accounting period:
                                      12.5% if the total half yearly sales value is upto Rs.2,00,000
                                      13.5% if the total half yearly sales value is between Rs.2,00,001
                              and Rs.10,00,000.
                                      14.0% if the total half yearly sales value is exceeding
                              Rs.10,00,001.
                              For the determination of the all-in-royalty rate applicable, the sales value
                              will be calculated at Company’s domestic dealer price (exclusive of taxes,
                              packaging allowance etc as above) of all records embodying the
                              Producer’s recordings, including those of earlier contracts, sold by the
                              Company and not returned. In consideration thereof, this agreement
                              shall supersede all previous agreements between the Company and the
                              producer, effective from the first half-yearly accounting period after date
                              of this Agreement.
                              The all-in-royalty on sale of records by the Company’s licencees will be
                              computed separately on the same calculation basis as above.
                                      (b) If the Producer’s recordings are incorporated only in part of the
                              records made or lincensed by the Company, the all-in-royalty shall be
                              calculated pro rata according to the proportion of the Producer’s
                              recordings to the total number of title on those records.
                                      (c) Promotional records free or bonus records, as well as excerpts
                              from the recordings, used by the Company for publicity and advertising
                              purposes or otherwise, shall be excepted from payment of royalty.
                                      (d) The royalty payable by the Company to the producer as herein
                              provided shall be the only consideration payable and the Producer
                              warrants and represents that he will satisfy all claims, if any, of third
                              parties in connection with recording(s) of which the record is made
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                52
                              hereunder, and agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified, the Company
                              in respect of all demands, claims, actions and proceedings in that behalf.
                                      (d) The Company will pay royalties as long as the recordings
                              covered by the Agreement are sold by the Company or its licences, but
                              not for longer than the period for which the recordings are legally
                              protected. However, in the event of the producer committing a breach of
                              the provisions of this or any other agreement with Company, then, in that
                              even, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies which the
                              Company may have in that behalf, the Company’s obligation to pay
                              royalty to the Producer as herein before provided shall cease until such
                              time as the Producer may have remedied such default.
                              8. The Company shall furnish to the Producer for each half-yearly
                              accounting period statements showing the number and type of records
                              made from the Producer’s recordings sold by the Company during the
                              half-year and not returned, and the amount of royalty due to the Producer
                              in respect thereof, and the Company shall pay thereafter the amount due
                              to the Producer within 90 days.
                                      Royalties payable for sales outside of India shall be accounted and
                              paid for only after the Company has received statements and payments
                              from its clients/licenses. If remittance to India is prevented by currency or
                              other government restrictions, royalty amounts due would be made
                              available to the Producer in the country concerned as permissible by law.
                              From such royalties the Company shall be entitled to deduct all taxes and
                              dues as demanded by the respective governments of the countries in
                              which such records are sold or accounted for. The Producer, at his/her
                              own expense, shall be entitled to receive upon so requesting, from the
                              Company in writing a certificate of the Company’s auditors as to the
                              correctness of any such statements.
                              9. If the fulfilment of this Agreement or any part thereof shall become
                              impossible by reason of force majeure, or any other reason outside the
                              control of the parties, then either party shall be entitled (by giving notice
                              in writing to the Other Party hereof and without incurring liability for
                              damages or any other compensation) to suspend the operation of the
                              Agreement or any part thereof until such time as such fulfilment shall
                              again become possible.
                              10. This Agreement shall be construed according to the law of India and
                              all matters, claims and dispute arising in respect hereof shall be subject to
                              the exclusive jurisdiction of the relevant courts at Madras.
                              11. The invalidity of any one provision of this Agreement shall not
                              invalidate the Agreement in its entirety and any amendment, modification
                              or alteration thereof shall be valid and binding only if reduced into writing
                              and executed by both the parties.
                              12. Any notice arising from the terms of this agreement will be deemed to
                              have been duly served by either party on the other if it is sent by
                              registered post to the addresses entered herein above or to any other
                              addresses which might have been notified and duly acknowledged by the
                              parties.’
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               53
                              23. Echo is the company and Poompuhar the producer, and the agreement is
                     for the assignment of the copyright for the exclusive right, unlimited in time, to
                     make records from the ‘sound recordings’ embodied in the film ‘Paasapparavaigal’
                     and the ‘sound recordings’ of any music, musical, literary, dramatic or artistic work
                     that may have been recorded by the producer with the intent of incorporating the
                     same in the film irrespective of whether or not it has been so incorporated.
                              24. The agreement proceeds on the assumption that the producer holds such
                     right to begin with and thus, there is no restriction or limitation placed upon him to
                     effect such assignment to the company. The assignment of the copyright entitles
                     Echo to make any other record embodying the same recording, to produce any
                     other recording, to cause or permit performance of such recordings, to publish the
                     works embodied in the recordings, broadcast the recordings by radio, to
                     manufacture/ market/ sell /lease /licence /distribute/ advertise/ permit or exploit
                     the recording in any manner whatsoever and permit others to do so such works and
                     to control the physical property of the original recordings.
                              25. The agreement required the producer to supply, simultaneous or prior to
                     the delivery of the cinematograph film/sound recording, the correct title(s), score(s)
                     and details of composer(s) thereof together with information such as the names of
                     recording artist(s), year and place of original recording and all other details relating
                     to the works themselves.
                              26. Royalty is to be paid to the producer by the company based on the sales
                     of records for which a methodology has been set out for the period when the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                      54
                     recordings are protected under the Act. These are the aspects of the agreement as
                     relevant to this matter.
                              27. The producer of the film has assigned the entire rights in the musical
                     work and songs in the cinematograph film to Echo. Obviously, the producer could
                     not have passed on a better right to Echo then what he had had himself to begin
                     with, which brings us to the legal issue of what the right is, that vested in the
                     producer in the first instance.
                              28. According to Mr.Ilaiyaraja, Echo proceeds on the fallacy that the producer
                     is the owner of the ‘sound recording’/’musical work’ comprised in the films.
                     However, since he has, at no point of time, assigned or transferred such rights to
                     the producer, he retains the right in his music compositions as the first owner of the
                     copyright comprised in these works. In such circumstances, he argues that when he
                     continues to retain such works, there is no possibility of such works having been
                     assigned to Echo by the producer, the latter not holding any right over the same.
                              29. Both Echo as well as Mr.Ilaiyaraja have referred to and relied upon the
                     several definitions and statutory provisions to support their respective stands. It is
                     thus necessary at this juncture to refer to the provisions of the Copyright Act to
                     understand the scheme of ownership under the Act. The statute uses two terms
                     ‘author’ and ‘owner’, both having different and distinct meanings. The statutory
                     provisions relevant to the resolution of the lis are as follows:
                                 2(d) ‘author’ means,-
                              (i)in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
                              (ii)in relation to a musical work, the composer;
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                             55
                                      (iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photographer, the
                                      artist;
                                     (iv)in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph;
                                     (v)in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the
                                     producer; and.....
                                     (the last w.e.f. 10.05.1995)
                                     2. [(f) ‘cinematograph film’ means any work of visual recording [***] and
                                     includes a sound recording accompanying such visual recording and ‘cinematograph’
                                     shall be construed as including any work produced by any process analogous to
                                     cinematography including video films;]
                                     3. [(m)’infringing copy’ means,--....
                               i.       in relation to a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, a reproduction thereof
                                        otherwise than in the form of a cinematographic film;
                              ii.       in relation to a cinematograph film, a copy of the film made on any medium by
                                        any means;
                              iii.      in relation to a sound recording, any other recording embodying the same sound
                                        recording, made by any means;...]
                              iv.       if such reproduction, copy or sound recording is made or imported in
                                        contravention of the provisions of this Act;]
                                        2(uu) ‘producer’, in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording means
                                        a person who takes the initiative and responsibility for making the work;
                                        2(xx) ‘sound recording’ means a recording of sound from which such sounds
                                        may be produced regardless of the medium on which such recording is made or
                                        the method by which the sounds are produced;
                                        2(y) ‘work’ means any of the following works, namely:-
                                        (i) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work;
                                        (ii) a cinematograph film;
                                        (iii) a [sound recording];
                                        2(ffa) ‘composer’ in relation to a musical work, means the person who
                                        composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical
                                        notation;
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                       56
                                   2(p) ‘musical work’ means a work consisting of music and includes any
                                   graphical notation of such work but does not include any words or any action
                                   intended to be sung, spoken or performed with the music;
                                   2(a) ‘adaption’ means,
                              ….
                                   [(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work involving its rearrangement or
                                   alteration;]
                              30. The provisions of section 13 enumerate the various classes of work in
                     which copyright subsists, being original, literary, dramatic, musical and artistic
                     works, cinematograph films and sound recordings. Each of these works is a
                     separate and independent class of works and carries a distinct copyright of its own.
                     The provision reads thus:
                                   13-Works in which copyright subsists.-(1) Subject to the provisions
                                   of this section and the other provisions of this Act, copyright shall
                                   subsist throughout India in the following classes of works, that is to
                                   say,-
                              (a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works;
                              (b) cinematograph films; and
                              (c) [sound recording]
                              ....
(3) Copyright shall not subsist--
(a) in any cinematograph film if a substantial part of the film is an
infringement of the copyright in any other work;
(b) in any [sound recording] made in respect of a literary, dramatic or
musical work, if in making the [sound recording], copyright in such work has
been infringed.
(4) The copyright in a cinematograph film or a [sound recording] shall not
affect the separate copyright in any work in respect of which or a
http://www.judis.nic.in  57 substantial part of which, the film, or, as the
case may be, the [sound recording] is made....
31\. Section 13(4) specifically states that a ‘cinematograph film’ or a ‘sound
recording’ contain separate copyrights in themselves, not militating against
the independent and unique copyrights held by constituents of such film or
recording, each of which is entitled to, and holds a copyright of its own.
This recognizes the position that a cinematograph film comprises of various
unique components, being derivative rights, and as stated by the Supreme Court
in the celebrated judgment of IPRS (supra), is a ‘felicitous blend’,
‘beautiful totality’ and ‘a constellation of stars’ and it is the coming
together of these unique components that make it what it is.
32\. Section 14 defines copyright itself as being the exclusive right to do or
to authorize various acts in respect of a work or a substantial part thereof.
In the case of musical work such entitlements are wide as set out under Clause
iv to vii extracted below:
> 14\. Meaning of copyright.—For the purposes of this Act, “copyright” means
> the exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or
> authorise the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any
> substantial part thereof, namely:—1[14. Meaning of copyright.—For the
> purposes of this Act, “copyright” means the exclusive right subject to the
> provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the doing of any of the following
> acts in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof, namely\:—"
> (a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a
> computer programme,—
> (i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it
> in any medium by electronic means;
> (ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
> circulation;
> (iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;
http://www.judis.nic.in  58
(iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work;
(v) to make any translation of the work;
(vi) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of
the acts specified in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (vi);
(b) in the case of a computer programme,—
(i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a); 2[(ii) to sell or give on
commercial rental or offer for sale or for commercial rental any copy of the
computer programme: 2[(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for
sale or for commercial rental any copy of the computer programme\:" Provided
that such commercial rental does not apply in respect of computer programmes
where the programme itself is not the essential object of the rental.]
(c) in the case of an artistic work,—
(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including depiction in three
dimensions of a two dimensional work or in two dimensions of a three
dimensional work;
(ii) to communicate the work to the public;
(iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;
(iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;
(v) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vi) to do in relation to an adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (iv);
(d) in the case of a cinematograph film,—
(i) to make a copy of the film including a photograph of any image forming
part thereof;
(ii) to sell or give on hire or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the film,
regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on earlier
occasions;
(iii) to communicate the film to the public;
(e) in the case of a sound recording,— http://www.judis.nic.in  59
(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it including storing of it in
any medium by electronic or other means;
(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such
rental, any copy of the sound recording;
(iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public. Explanation.— For the
purposes of this section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to
be a copy already in circulation.
33\. The above provisions will have to be harmonised with the provisions of
Section 17 extracted below:
> 17\. First owner of copyright.- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
> author of a work shall be the first owner of the copyright therein.
> Provided that--
> (a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or artistic work made by the author
> in the course of his employment by the proprietor of a newspaper, magazine
> or similar periodical under a contract of service or apprenticeship, for the
> purpose of publication in a newspaper, magazine or similar periodical, the
> said proprietor shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be
> the first owner of the copyright in the work insofar as the copyright
> relates to the publication of the work in any newspaper, magazine or similar
> periodical, or to the reproduction of the work for the purpose of its being
> so published, but in all other respects the author shall be the first owner
> of the copyright in the work
> (b) subject to the provisions of clause (a), in the case of a photograph
> taken, or a painting or portrait drawn, or an engraving or a cinematograph
> film made, for valuable consideration, at the instance of any person, such
> person shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first
> owner of the copyright therein;
> (c) in the case of a work made in the course of the author's employment
> under a contract of service or apprenticeship to which clause (a) or clause
> (b) does not apply, the employer shall, in the absence of any agreement to
> the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright therein;
> ....
> [Provided that in case of any work incorporated in a cinematograph work,
> nothing contained in clauses (b) and (c) shall affect the right of the
> author in the work referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section
> 13;
http://www.judis.nic.in  60
34\. The proviso to Section 17 sets out the exclusions to the application of
the provision. Proviso (a) deals with literary, dramatic or artistic works and
is not relevant to this case. Proviso (b) addresses painting, portrait,
engraving or a cinematograph film made for valuable consideration at the
instance of any person (in this case the producer), and states that such
person (the producer) shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary
with the creator of such painting, portrait, engraving or cinematograph film
(that includes a sound recording), be the first owner of the copyright therein
Proviso (c) talks about a work created in the course of the authors’
employment under a contract of service or apprenticeship to which Clause (a)
or Clause (b) does not apply and states that in such cases, unless the author
has reserved his right to such copyright, the first owner of the copyright
shall be the employer.
35\. In the suits before me, the producers have not been made parties. No
material has been placed on record by any of the parties to produce evidence
or establish a contract between Mr.Ilaiyaraja and the producers, either of
employment/apprenticeship or of retention of rights in the ‘sound recording’.
It is also the specific stand of Mr.Ilaiyaraja that he had never worked under
a contract of service or apprenticeship with a producer. In the absence of the
producers, this position is not verifiable. However, bearing in mind the
stature of the composer and his pleadings in this regard, I proceed on the
basis that the employer/employee relationship does not apply in the present
case and for that reason, proviso (c) is not applicable.
http://www.judis.nic.in  61
36\. A contiguous reading of the above provisions is called for to reconcile
the issue before me. Section 2(d) defines ‘author’, in relation to a ‘musical
work’, as the ‘composer’ and in relation to a ‘cinematograph film’ or ‘sound
recording’ as the ‘producer’. A ‘cinematograph film’ is defined in 2(f) to
mean ‘any work of visual recording, which includes a sound recording’ and a
‘sound recording’ is defined in (xx) to be ‘a recording of sounds from which
such sounds may be produced regardless of the medium on which such recordings
is made or the method by which the sound are produced’. A producer in relation
to a ‘cinematograph film’ or ‘sound recording’ is a person who has taken the
initiative and bears the responsibilities for making a ‘work’, such work being
defined in Section 2(y) to include a ‘musical work’, a ‘cinematograph film’
and a ‘sound recording’.
37\. The provisions protect the authors of original musical works,
cinematograph films and sound recordings. There is an overlap in so far as a
‘cinematograph film’ contains within itself ‘sound recordings’ based on the
‘musical works’ of the composers that are distinct assets on their own, though
wholly integrated into the cinematograph film itself. The fact that these
assets have been subsumed into the main asset, however, does not take away
their individuality or claim to a separate copyright that is statutorily
protected by virtue of Section 13(4) as well as the proviso inserted in 2012
at the foot of Section 17 that states that in case of any work incorporated in
a cinematograph work, nothing contained in clauses (b) and (c) of Section 17
shall affect the right of the author in the work referred to in clause (a) of
sub-section (1) of Section 13, being all original literary, dramatic, musical
and artistic works. Thus, these rights are concurrent and operate
http://www.judis.nic.in  62 simultaneously as well as separately. (see
Gramaphone Co. Ltd. V. Stephen Carwardine & Co. (1934 1 Ch.450)
38\. The Supreme Court in the case of IPRS (supra), was considering an appeal
filed by various film producers. The background to the appeal was that the
Indian Performing Rights Society, that had as its members composers of musical
works, authors of literary and dramatic works as well as artists, published
tariffs laying down the fee structure for the royalties that it proposed to
collect for grant of licenses for performance of the works of the members in
respect of which it claimed assignment from them.
39\. The tariffs fixed had been objected to by the producers of cinematograph
films, who claimed ownership of the films including the musical works
comprised therein. The producers had averred that the musical works had been
commissioned by them for use in their films and had been utilized and
incorporated in the sound tracks of the films. According to them, the rights
in the entire film, including the sound track, vested in them. Their
objections were rejected by the Copyright Board that was of the view that the
composer of the music and the musical works retained the copyright in their
works and that they could thus assign the same to the IPRS. In appeal, the
producers had challenged the decision of the Copyright board before the High
Court, Calcutta, which allowed the appeal holding that unless it was proved
that the composer had reserved his right to the copyright in his work, he does
not acquire any copyright in respect thereof, in terms of proviso (b) to
Section 17 of the Copyright Act and the owner of the film, at whose instance
the composition was made, became the owner of the copyright in such
composition. http://www.judis.nic.in  63
40\. An appeal was filed before the Supreme Court by the IPRS that was
dismissed, confirming the right of the producer to the copyright in ‘sound
recording’ as part of a ‘cinematograph film’. While speaking on whether the
producer of a cinematograph film could defeat the right of a music composer or
a lyricist by engaging him to compose music or lyrics, the Court found the
solution in provisions of Section 17 and the provisos therein in the following
paragraphs:
> ‘Whether in view of the provisions of the Copy Right Act 1957 an existing
> and future rights of music composer, lyricist is capable of assignment and
> whether the producer of a cinematograph film can defeat the same by engaging
> the same person.” ……………… It is the second part of the question which has
> been a hot bed of controversy between the parties that has got to be
> tackled. The main point for determination in regard to this part of the
> question is whether the composer of lyric or musical work (which in terms of
> section 2(p) of the Act means only a notationally written, printed or
> graphically produced or reproduced music) retains a copyright in the lyric
> or musical work if he grants a licence or permission to an author (owner) of
> a cinematograph film for its incorporation in the sound track of a
> cinematograph film. For a proper appreciation and determination of the
> contentions raised before us, it is necessary to notice certain provisions
> of the Act. ………………..
> This takes us to the core of the question namely, whether the producer of a
> cinematograph film can defeat the right of the composer of music .... or
> lyricist by engaging him. The key to the solution of this question lies in
> provisos (b) and (c) to section 17 of the Act reproduced above which put the
> matter beyond doubt. According to the first of these provisos viz. proviso
> (b) when a cinematograph film producer commissions a composer of music or a
> lyricist for reward or valuable consideration for the purpose of making his
> cinematograph film, or composing music or lyric there- fore i.e. the sounds
> for incorporation or absorption in the sound track associated with the film,
> which as already indicated, are included in a cinematograph film, he becomes
> the first owner of the copyright therein 'and no copyright subsists in the
> composer of the lyric or music so composed unless there is a contract to the
> contrary between the composer of the lyric or music on the one hand and the
> producer of the cinematograph film on the other. The same result follows
> according to aforesaid proviso (c) if the composer of music or lyric is
> employed under a contract of service or apprenticeship to compose the work.
> It is, therefore, crystal clear that the rights of a music … ..composer or
> lyricist Can be defeated by the producer of a cinematograph film in the
> manner laid down in provisos (b) and (c) of section 17 of the Act.
http://www.judis.nic.in  64 We are fortified in this view by the decision in
Wallerstein v. Herbert (1867) Vol. 16, Law Times Reports 453, relied upon by
Mr. Sachin Chaudhary where it was held that the music composed for reward by
the plain- tiff in pursuance of his engagement to give effect to certain
situations in the drama entitled "Lady Andley's Secret", which was to be put
on the stage was not an independent composition but was merely an accessory to
and a Fart and parcel of the drama and the plaintiff did not have any right in
the music.
………..
41\. Though the judgment was rendered Per Bench, Justice V.R.Krishna Iyer
delivered a separate and supplementing footnote where he states thus:
> A cinematograph is a felicitous blend, a beautiful totality, a constellation
> of stars, if I may use these lovely imageries to drive home my point,
> slurring over the rule against mixed metaphor. Cinema is more. than long
> strips of celluloid, more than miracles in photography, more than song,
> dance and dialogue and indeed, more than dramatic story, exciting plot,
> gripping situations and marvellous acting. But it is that ensemble which is
> the finished product of orchestrated performance by each of the several
> participants, although the components may, sometimes, in themselves be
> elegant entities. Copyright in a cinema film exists in law, but s. 13(4) of
> the Act preserves the separate survival, in its individuality, of a
> copyright enjoyed by any 'work' notwithstanding its confluence in the film.
> This persistence of the aesthetic 'personality' of the intellectual property
> cannot cut down the copyright of the film qua film. The latter right is, as
> explained earlier in my learned brother's judgment, set out indubitably in
> s. 14(1)(c). True, the exclusive right, otherwise called copyright, in the
> case of a musical work extends to all the sub-rights spelt out in s.
> 14(1)(a). A harmonious construction of s. 14, which is the integral yoga of
> copyrights in creative works, takes us to the soul of the subject. The
> artist enjoys his copyright in the musical work, the film producer is the
> master of his combination of artistic pieces and the two can happily co-
> exist and need not conflict. What is the modus vivendi ?
> ……….
The solution is simple. The film producer has the sole right to exercise what
is his entitlement under s. 14(1)(c) qua film, but he cannot trench on the
composer's copyright which he does only if the 'music' is performed or
produced or reproduced separately, in violation of s. 14(1)(a). For instance,
a film may be caused to be exhibited as a film but the pieces of music cannot
be picked out of the sound track and played in the cinema or other theatre. To
do that is the privilege of the composer and that right of his is not crowned
in the film copyright except where there is special provision such as in s.
17, proviso (c). So, beyond exhibiting the film as a cinema show, if the
producer plays the songs separately to attract an audience or for other
reason, he infringes the composer's copyright. Anywhere, in a
http://www.judis.nic.in  65 restaurant or aeroplane or radio station or cinema
theatre, if a music is played, there comes into play the copyright of the
composer or the Performing Arts Society. These are the boundaries of composite
creations of art which are at once individual and collective, viewed from
different angles. In 'a cosmic perspective, a thing of beauty has no boundary
and is humanity's property but in the materialist plane on which artists
thrive, private and exclusive estate in art subsists. Man, the noblest work of
the Infinite Artist, strangely enough, battles for the finite products of his
art and the secular law, operating on the temporal level, guardians material
works possessing spiritual values. The enigmatic small of Mona, Lisa is the
timeless heritage of man- kind but, till liberated by the prescribed passage
of time, the private copyright of the human maker says, 'hands off'. ………
Therefore, copyrighted music is not the soulful tune, the superb singing, the
glorious voice or the wonderful render- ing. It is the melody or harmony
reduced to print, writing or graphic form. The Indian music lovers throng to
listen and be enthralled or enchanted by the nada brahma, the sweet concord of
sounds, the rags, the bhava, the lava and the sublime or exciting singing.
Printed music is not the glamour or glory of it, by and large, although the
content of the poem or the lyric or the song does have appeal. Strangely
enough, 'author', as defined in s.2(d), in relation to a musical work, is only
the composer and s. 16 confines 'copyright' to those works which are
recognised by the Act. This means that the composer alone has copyright in a
musical work. The singer has none. This disentitlement of the musician or
group of musical artists to copy- right is un-Indian, because the major
attraction which lends monetary value to a musical performance is not the
music maker, so much as the musician. Perhaps, both deserve to be recognised
by the copyright law. I make this observation only because act in one sense,
depends on the ethos and the aesthetic best of a people; and while universal
protection of intellectual and aesthetic property of creators of 'works' is an
international obligation, each country in its law must protect such rights
wherever originality is contributed. So viewed, apart from the music composer,
the singer must be conferred a right. Of course, law- making is the province
of Parliament but the Court must communicate to the lawmaker such infirmities
as exist in the law extant.
42\. A sound recording is a conglomerate of various invaluable contributions.
If one were to trace the evolution of what eventually comes to be known as a
‘sound recording’, it all commences with the melody that flows when the muse
inspires, the reduction of the same to notation, fleshing out the melody with
lyrics, leading to songs, then instrumentation and orchestral arrangements, in
all, one complete ‘felicitous blend’. Sometimes, melody is set to lyrics and
other times, http://www.judis.nic.in  66 lyrics are set to fit within the
contours of melody. A ‘sound recording’ incorporates both melodic as well as
lyrical contents. The playback artists and accompanists then deliver the song
which would be recorded in a studio and embodied as sound in a master medium
on a master tape or digital media.
43\. Irrespective of the medium of delivery, it is the sum-total of all the
aforesaid elements that constitute a ‘sound recording’ and it is in respect of
this ‘sound recording’ that the producer lays claim, accorded to him in terms
of the statute. To this end, the submission that a ‘sound recording’ has
always been covered as a subject under the Copyright Act, though referred to
earlier as a ‘record’ is in order. However, the 2012 amendment makes it clear,
by way of tightening the statutory protection extended to artists, that the
right of exploitation of a ‘work’ shall, prospectively, be restricted only to
the specific mode or medium of exploitation stipulated in the Assignment
Agreement and none other.
44\. The rights of the other stake holders including and specifically, the
performer, are separate and entitled to protection. The right of the producer
in the sound recording as a conglomerate unit does not militate against or
compromise the rights of these individual constituents whose rights are
identifiable, distinct and enforceable.
45\. In my view, Section 17 is key to the adjudication of the lis before me.
Section 17 vests the ‘author’ of a ‘work’ with the first ownership of
copyright. There are six exclusions. Proviso (b) and (c) are relevant in the
case of a music composer.
46\. I have held earlier that Proviso (c) would not stand attracted in the
facts and circumstances of the present case. This Proviso applies to
situations not coming http://www.judis.nic.in  67 within clause (a) or (b) and
states that in the case of a work made in the case of the authors’ employment
under a contract of service or apprenticeship, the employer shall, in the
absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright
therein. A suggestion was made by Echo that the facts of the present case
would be covered by proviso (c) and there being no agreement to the contrary
furnished by Mr.Ilaiyaraja, the employer shall be the first owner of the
copyright therein. I reject this contention outright.
47\. There is nothing to suggest an employer-employee relationship in this
case vis-a-vis the music composer and the producer. The engagement of
Mr.Ilaiyaraja, to my mind, is as a stand-alone professional, and his services,
commissioned, as such. We have been privy to many situations where it is in
fact, his music that has carried the movie. Otherwise eminently forgettable
movies are made memorable by the outstanding musical scores that they contain.
Though not a rule of thumb, the stature of the music composer before me
dictates that that the arrangements as between himself and the producers are
not one of service or apprenticeship but one of Principle to Principle.
48\. Proviso (b) addresses a situation where an expert in his or her field has
been engaged and certain ‘works’ commissioned. This proviso addresses the
making of a cinematograph film that includes, by definition, a ‘sound
recording’, of a ‘musical work’. The producer of the ‘cinematograph film’
will, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of
the copyright therein including such ‘sound recording’. It is this clause
which, in my opinion, is applicable to the facts and circumstances of the
present cases.
http://www.judis.nic.in  68
49\. As stated earlier, it is unclear as to whether Mr.Ilaiyaraja has reserved
his rights by way of agreements with the producers of the films. The producers
are not before me to either confirm or deny this position. Mr.Ilaiyaraja also
has not produced any documentation in support of this position. Though Agi
Music states in its pleadings that it has seen fifty (50) such agreements out
of a hundred and eighty five (185) agreements that form the subject matter of
C.S.No.187 of 2010, there is no evidence before me to support such a position
in the present case. Moreover, the songs in the 259 agreements annexed to the
written statement by Echo have been distributed in public domain, thanks to
Echo, for the last several years. No objection has been raised by
Mr.Ilaiyaraja till date of filing of the suit. If at all he was of the view
that the exploitation of the ‘sound recording’ by Echo constituted an
infringement, it was incumbent upon him to have taken action in a timely
fashion. This has not been done and the plaint does not even mention any
communication to Echo or a cease and desist notice having been issued to Echo.
By conduct, Mr.Ilaiyaraja appears to have acquiesced to the actions of Echo. I
also draw no adverse inference from the fact that there are 41 agreements that
have not been produced by Echo. The explanation offered is reasonable and
acceptable and I do so.
50\. No solution has been offered by learned counsel as to how the concurrent
rights of the producers and individual constituents of the ‘sound recording’
could be allocated, but to my mind, the answer lies in Section 57 of the Act.
Section 57 implements the provisions of Article 6 of the Berne Convention
conferring upon an author ‘Moral Rights’ or ‘Droit Moral’ as distinguished
from ‘economic rights’. These http://www.judis.nic.in  69 special rights would
subsist in a ‘work’ even after either full or partial assignment of the same
and encompass claim to authorship of the work and the right to restrain or
claim damages in respect of any distortion, mutilation, modification or any
other act that would change the character of the said work, and that would be
prejudicial to the honour or reputation of the author. Article 6 is extracted
below:
> Article 6 [Moral Rights: 1. To claim authorship; to object to certain
> modifications and other derogatory actions; 2. After the author’s death; 3.
> Means of redress] (1) Independently of the author’s economic rights, and
> even after the transfer of the said rights, the author shall have the right
> to claim authorship of the work and to object to any distortion, mutilation
> or other modification of, or other derogatory action in relation to, the
> said work, which would be prejudicial to his honor or reputation. (2) The
> rights granted to the author in accordance with the preceding paragraph
> shall, after his death, be maintained, at least until the expiry of the
> economic rights, and shall be exercisable by the persons or institutions
> authorized by the legislation of the country where protection is claimed.
> However, those countries whose legislation, at the moment of their
> ratification of or accession to this Act, does not provide for the
> protection after the death of the author of all the rights set out in the
> preceding paragraph may provide that some of these rights may, after his
> death, cease to be maintained. (3) The means of redress for safeguarding the
> rights granted by this Article shall be governed by the legislation of the
> country where protection is claimed.
51\. Moral rights are essentially a European concept and find place for the
first time in the 1928 Rome Convention. It was reiterated in the 1948 Brussels
Convention and thereafter in the Stockholm Convention in June 1957 and Paris
convention of 1971. In the United Kingdom, statutory recognition was given to
moral rights in the U.K. Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1998, pursuant to
the recommendation of the Witford Committee. The U.K. Act recognizes, under
moral rights, the distinct right to be identified as the author of the work or
in other words http://www.judis.nic.in  70 the right to paternity of the work,
the right to object to derogatory treatment of the work or in other words the
rights to insist on integrity of the work, right against false contribution of
a work and the right to privacy in private photographs and films.
52\. The special rights encompassed under Section 57 are thus of a nature that
would protect the author beyond the contractual terms binding parties and no
party could seek to negate or defeat such special rights relying on the terms
of a contract of assignment.
53\. Section 57 reads thus:
Author’s special rights.— 1 [(1) Independently of the author’s copyright and
even after the assignment either wholly or partially of the said copyright,
the author of a work shall have the right—
(a) to claim authorship of the work; and
(b) to restrain or claim damages in respect of any distortion, mutilation,
modification or other act in relation to the said work if such distortion,
mutilation, modification or other act would be prejudicial to his honour or
reputation:
Provided that the author shall not have any right to restrain or claim damages
in respect of any adaptation of a computer programme to which clause (aa) of
sub-section (1) of section 52 applies.
Explanation.— Failure to display a work or to display it to the satisfaction
of the author shall not be deemed to be an infringement of the rights
conferred by this section.] (2) The right conferred upon an author of a work
by sub-section (1), may be exercised by the legal representatives of the
author.
54\. In my considered view, Section 57 bestows upon Mr. Ilaiyaraja, complete
Moral rights over the ‘musical works’ authored by him. To elucidate,
Mr.Ilaiyaraja is a ‘composer’ as defined in Section 2 (ffa) and thus, an
‘author’, as defined in Section 2 (d) of a ‘musical work’, as defined in
Section 2 (p) of the Act. By virtue of such authorship, he is the ‘first
owner’ of the copyright vesting in the ‘musical work’ http://www.judis.nic.in
71 in terms of Section 17. By application of the Special right under Section
57(1)(a), he continues to lay claim to the authorship of his ‘musical works’
despite the assignment of the same for the purposes of the ‘sound recording’.
55\. This entitles him, in terms of Section 57(1)(b), to restrain or claim
damages in respect of any distortion, mutilation, modification or other act in
relation to the work, if such distortion, mutilation, modification or other
act would be prejudicial to his honour or reputation. This is targeted to
ensure that the purity and integrity of the ‘musical work’ is maintained by
the assignee. To this end, Section 57(1)(b)) grants the author a right to
restrain the exhibition of the ‘sound recording’ if it is found that the
manner of presentation of the ‘sound recording’ would project the author’s
composition in negative light.
56\. This clause, as it stood earlier extended this protection only during the
life of a copyright. However, the 2012 amendment has deleted the phrase ‘which
is done before the expiration of the term of copyright’ in Section (1)(b), as
a result that the protection and special entitlement now extends in infinitum,
and can be exercised by an author of a ‘work’ or his legal heirs at any time
without restriction of time or period. This, in my view, points to a serious
and laudable attempt by Legislature to ensure maintenance of integrity and
protection of creative works.
57\. It also entitles the author, Mr.Ilaiyaraja, to the exclusive right under
Section 14 to do or engage in, all of the acts set out in the sub-clauses of
Section 14, barring situations where such entitlement encroaches upon the
making of a ‘sound recording’ based on the concerned ‘musical work’. I add
this caveat for the reason that the ‘musical works’ in question have already
found expression as ‘sound http://www.judis.nic.in  72 recordings’ and have
been integrated in ‘sound recordings’ in various cinematograph films. It
cannot hence be that further ‘sound recordings’ be made based on the same
‘musical works’. This would defeat the purpose of vesting the ‘sound
recording’ right in a producer, in the first place. To sum up, what has been
assigned is the ‘musical work’ qua the ‘sound recording’ and the author
continues to retain the right in the ‘musical work’ for all other intents and
purposes, both moral as well as economic. The special right to exploit such
‘musical work’ otherwise is unfettered.
58\. Though Special Rights have been part of the Act since inception and bring
with its purview the concept of a moral right, the 2012 amendment has
introduced the concept of ‘Moral rights’ in so many words, for the first time
in the Indian Copyright Act, in Chapter VIII, Section 38 B addressing the
moral rights of a performer. The Section states that the performer of a
performance shall, independent of his right after assignment, either wholly or
partially of his right, continue to have the right to claim to be identified
as the performer of his performance except where the omission is dictated by
the manner of the use of the performance and to restrain or claim damages in
respect of any distortion, mutilation or either modification that would be
prejudicial to his reputation. To my mind, these rights are analogous to
Section 57 that enumerates an author’s Special Rights and supplemental
thereof.
59\. Much has been said on the 2012 amendments to the Copyright Act.
Mr.Radhakrishnan, on behalf of Mr.Ilaiyaraja has advanced impassioned
arguments on the unfair treatment meted out to music composers and artists in
the past, thus, http://www.judis.nic.in  73 paving the way for the amendments
in 2012, to provide for more equitable treatment to them. The Parliamentary
Debates prior to the 2012 amendments, in regard to the amendments proposed in
regard to musicians and music composers, is as follows:
> COPYRIGHT (AMENDMENT) BILL .....
> SHRI KAPIL SIBAL: Apart from the cinema, there are other vehicles through
> which entertainment can reach millions and billions in the world.
> Wherever you go in the world, the Indian Film Industry is popular there.
> Anywhere in the world, people remember our films. If it is Russia, people
> still remember the song sung by Shri Raj Kapoor - ‘awara hoon’. If I go
> sometimes to the Eastern European countries, people are singing modern songs
> that are being sung in Hindi films today. The same situation is in Egypt.
> There is a huge market for Indian Film Industry in the United States of
> America, apart from the fact that this is given impetus to artists to
> produce artistic works of great excellence. It has also become a great
> business. With the change of technology, new avenues of business have
> arisen.
> Madam, if you really look at the history of the copyright law, the first
> protection to the copyright law was given way back in 1709 by the Statute of
> Anne. It is very interesting to note that even the US Constitution has a
> specific provision on protection to copyright. It is because they realize
> the importance of intellectual property in the artistic works that emanate
> from citizens, who have those qualities.
> The point that I was making is that this is something that needs to be
> protected. But, unfortunately, over the years - especially in the context of
> artists in India - the producers in this country through an assignment took
> over those rights. Under Section 13 (i) (a) of the Copyright Act, there is
> protection to the artistic work, whether it is a literary work, a musical
> work, dramatic work or a performance. So, protection is provided under the
> Act. So, the artist is the owner of that copyright because he creates that
> artistic work.
But, unfortunately, there was a provision in Section 17 (i) (b) of the Act
under which it was said that the artistic work belongs to the owner, subject
to a contract to the contrary. So, what used to http://www.judis.nic.in  74
happen is that if in a film, a song was to be sung, the producer of the film
would go to the artist and say that you have assigned your rights to me
unconditionally and you have assigned them forever.
The result was that under the Copyright Act, instead of the artist, the
producer became the sole author of the copyright. The result of that was, he
produced the film, the artist got the benefit of whatever he could get in the
film but he sold those rights of which the producer became the owner through
other medium. He sold it to music companies; he sold it to telecom companies;
and he made all the profits. The result was that the poor author and the poor
creator of the copyright did not get any share of the profit. According to me,
this is a historic injustice to the creators. There are about seven amendments
but I am not going to deal with each section. But broadly one of the things
which we wish to do is to ensure that the authors are the owners of the
copyright and whereas the copyright can be assigned, the right to royalty
cannot be assigned. This is the amendment that we are moving that you can get
the assignment from the artist whether it is a music composer or a literary
composer but when it comes to payment of royalties through other mediums, then
the producers and the authors must share that royalty in equal measure. So,
this is the first amendment that I have brought and I am commending it to this
House for adoption.
We have also consequentially brought about changes in the Copyright Societies
because in the Copyright Societies all the producers control the Copyright
Societies because the provision said that the owner of the copyright shall be
in the management of the Society and because of Section 17(1)(b), the producer
became the owner of the copyright. So, the authors were thrown out of the
Copyright Societies and only the producers became owners of the copyright
societies and they decided to negotiate with music companies and they decided
to sell those works, especially Hindi songs which are famous throughout the
world to music companies. They made a killing on them and the poor artist was
left in the lurch.
The fact of the matter is that a time has come to correct all these things.
All over the world, there is equitable distribution of royalties. But
unfortunately this is not what has been happening in India. Actually, I wanted
to give this right to the principal director of films as well. Ultimately, in
a film, who are the real artists? They are those who sing songs, those who
perform, and those who direct the film. Now a Director is kept out of any
profits of the film. He is the one who actually creates the architecture of
the film. But unfortunately he does not share any part of the royalty because
http://www.judis.nic.in  75 there is no risk capital involved. It is the
producer who risks his capital. Though I made this recommendation to the
Standing Committee that the principal director should also partake of the
profit, the Standing Committee had thought in its wisdom that the time has not
come for the principal director to be included and he too share in the profit
of the business. So, I have, in fact, dropped those amendments and I have not
pressed on them.
60\. According to him, the very purpose of the 2012 amendments are to ensure
the protection of the intellectual property of a composer, to see that the
ownership as well as the right of exploitation thereof, remains within his
possession and that of his legal heirs. He draws attention to the amendments
to various section of the Act particularly, the proviso to Section 17 inserted
in 2012, that states that in the case of any work incorporated in a
cinematograph film nothing contained in clauses (b) and (c) shall affect the
right of the author in the ‘work’ referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1)
of Section 13. He also draws attention to sub-Clause
(e) inserted in Section 14 dealing specifically with sound recording and
reading thus:
> 14\. Meaning of copyright.-
> (e) in the case of a sound recording,—
> (i) to make any other sound recording embodying it including storing of it
> in any medium by electronic or other means;
> (ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such
> rental, any copy of the sound recording;
> (iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public.
61\. A combined reading of the aforesaid makes it clear, according to him,
that after the amendment of 2012 it is the composer in whom vests the full
ownership and right of exploitation of his ‘musical works’ including that of a
‘sound recording’ based on his musical work. At first blush, it is an
extremely attractive http://www.judis.nic.in  76 argument and one that I am
sorely tempted to accept. We, as a society, have not been kind to our creators
and geniuses. The tendency is to place them on a pedestal and revere them
while they are in their prime, while, simultaneously and ironically, finding
every method possible to exploit their work to generate profits for corporate
interests, to their exclusion. Many of India’s finest Artists thus languish in
their old age, without any means of accessing the fruit of their labour. This
is a deplorable situation and a clarion call for remedy.
62\. The amendments to the Copyright Act in 2012 are an attempt to redress
this, in some measure, in balance with the rights of other entities as well.
The producer of a cinematograph films is the brain behind the film,
undertaking the risk and responsibility of the venture. It is in recognition
of the enormous risk taken by the producer that statute vests in him the
copyright in the entire film as well as the ‘sound recordings’ that constitute
an intrinsic and integral part of the film. This position, in my view, has not
been tampered with or altered by the 2012 amendment. The protection afforded
to the author of the ‘musical works’ is by insertion of the clauses as we have
seen above, as well as the three provisos after Section 18(1) dealing with
assignment of copy right, and the amendment effected to Section 19(3).
63\. The first proviso to Section 18(1) states that an assignment made shall
apply solely to the exploitation of such work upon such medium or mode of
exploitation in existence or in commercial use at the time when such
assignment was made or if such assignment specifically referred to such medium
or mode of exploitation. The second proviso states that the author of a
literary or musical work, http://www.judis.nic.in  77 included in a
cinematograph film, shall not assign or waive the right to receive royalty, to
be shared on a equal basis with the assignee of the copy right for the
utilization of such work in any form other than for the communication to the
public of the work along with the cinematograph film in a cinema hall, except
to the legal heirs of the author or a copyright society for collection and
distribution. The third proviso is similar to the second proviso, except that
it deals with literary or musical work included in a ‘sound recording’, but
not forming part of a cinematograph film.
64\. Provisos 2 and 3 thrust royalties upon the authors of ‘musical works’.
This serves, in my view, to address concerns that established production
houses negotiate unfairly with a music composer, bearing in mind the unequal
status of the two parties. By the insertion of the aforesaid provisos, the
right to equal royalty in the ‘sound ‘recording is ensured. Section 19(3) also
stands amended along similar lines. Whereas the section earlier provided for
the assignment agreement to specify ‘the amount of royalty payable, if any’,
it now provides that the assignment agreements ‘shall specify the amount of
royalty and other consideration payable to the author or his legal heirs
during the currency of the agreement’, thus making the payment of royalty,
mandatory.
65\. In summation, the 2012 amendment does take into account the interests of
authors of ‘musical works’ by ensuring the payment of equal royalty to them
and legal heirs, and not by shifting the basis of ownership of copy right as
it exists presently.
66\. In the light of the discussion as aforesaid and a concurrent reading of
the statutory provisions, I answer the issues in this category stating that
(i) it is the http://www.judis.nic.in  78 Producer of the cinematograph films
who holds the copyright, by default, in respect of the ‘sound recordings’ that
the film contains and an inference otherwise would arise only if the author of
the ‘musical work’ produces evidence of reservation of his right to such
‘sound recording’ and (ii) Mr.Ilaiyaraja holds complete Special and Moral
rights in regard to the ‘musical works’ composed/created by him entitling him
to the protection afforded under Section 57 of the Act, being claim to
authorship of his work, all measures necessary to preserve the integrity and
purity of his work, honour and reputation and the right of exploitation of his
‘musical works’ in any manner as he may desire, only barring in the form of
the ‘sound recordings’ that already stand integrated in the cinematograph
films. This category of issues is answered accordingly.
67\. The second set of issues relate to the question of assignment of
copyright of Mr.Ilaiyaraja to his wife Mrs.Jeevaraja and subsequent licences
issued by her vide documents executed by her in 2007 being the SRLA and the
SPA and the Addendum executed in January 2010. Having held that Echo is the
legal owner of the ‘sound recording’ the resultant conclusion would be that
the assignment of the copyright to Mrs.Jeevaraja would have no statutory
sanction. The entire transaction as regards Agi Music would thus fail at the
threshold. However, if at all any party could have questioned the assignment
of the ‘sound recoding’ right to Agi Music, it is Echo. Echo has chosen to
remain silent notwithstanding the evident exploitation of the ‘sound
recording’ right by Agi Music between 2007 and 2012. Echo has thus, in my
view, acquiesced to the assignment of the sound recording right to
Mrs.Jeevaraja and the subsequent exclusive assignment of the right to Agi
Music. http://www.judis.nic.in  79 Even in the pleadings as well as arguments
before me now Echo does not very seriously question the right granted to Agi
Music, merely stating that it is the legal owner of the ‘sound recordings’. I
thus, disconnect the sets of facts, the lis as between Mr.Ilaiyaraja and Echo
and the lis between Mr.Ilaiyaraj and Agi Music for the purposes of present
proceedings and answer the two sets of issues separately.
68\. The second set of issues are as follows.
C.S.No.308 of 2013:
1\. Has the 1st Defendant assigned his copyright in relation to the songs
which are the subject matter of this Suit to his wife vide Assignment
Agreement dated 24.11.2007 and if so, what is the period of assignment?
2\. Did the 1st defendant’s wife (as an assignee of the 1st Defendant) and the
Plaintiff enter into a Sound Recording Licensing Agreement (“SRLA”) dated
24.11.2007 and if so what was the period of such Agreement?
3\. Does Section 19(5) of the Copyrights Act apply to the present facts?
4\. Is this a fit case to read in an implied term into the Assignment
Agreement in relation to the term of the Agreement? C.S.No.625 of 2014:
10\. Did the plaintiff’s wife (as an assignee of the plaintiff) and the 4th
defendant enter into a Sound Recording Licensing Agreement (“SRLA”) dated
24.11.2007 and if so what was the period of such Agreement?
11\. Does Section 19(5) of the Copyrights Act apply to the present facts.
Additional Issue:
‘Is Mrs.Jeevaraja is an agent of Mr.Ilaiyaraja for the purposes of the
transaction between herself and Agi Music’.
http://www.judis.nic.in  80
69\. Mr.Ilaiyaraja does not dispute the Assignment Agreement dated 24.11.2007
extracted below for the sake of completion of narration:
> ‘ASSIGNMENT OF COPYRIGHT AND SOUND RECORDING RIGHTS KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
> PRESENTS, the undersigned assignor, Name: ILAIYARAAJA Address: 38, MURUGESAN
> STREET, T NAGAR City: CHENNAI STATE: TAMIL NADU, ZIP:600017, Country: INDIA
> Does hereby assign, transfer and se over to the assignee (wife of the
> assignor) Name:JEEVARAJA Address: 38, MURUGESAN STREET, T NAGAR City:
> CHENNAI STATE: TAMIL NADU, ZIP:600017, Country: INDIA Hereby, the assignor
> as the copyright owner and sound recording rights owner, assigns all of his
> rights including sound recording rights, publishing rights, public
> performances rights, digital media rights, new media rights, caller tunes,
> ring tones rights, true tones rights, all titles and interest in and to the
> musical compositions listed in Exhibit A, composed, produced and arranged by
> ILAIYARAAJA aka ILAIYARAJA ka ILAIYARAJA together with any and all
> assignor’s existing copyright therein throughout the India and the World,
> and any and all assignor’s rights of every kind, nature or description
> attaching to or which may attach to said musical composition and /or
> embraces or included in the copyright thereof in the India and entire world,
> which said composition the undersigned was originally assigned on 24th
> November 2007.
> IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed the foregoing instrument on
> this 24th November 2007.
70\. This issue thus, stands settled stating that the Assignment to
Mrs.Jeevaraja for the purposes of the present proceedings, is valid. The
second aspect is the tenure of the Assignment Agreement and the applicability
of Sections http://www.judis.nic.in  81 18 and 19(5) of the Act to the same.
Section 18 refers to the assignment of copyright and Section 19 of the Act
refers to the mode of assignment. The relevant provisions are extracted below:
> 18\. Assignment of copyright- (1) The owner of the copyright in an existing
> work or the prospective owner of the copyright in a future work may assign
> to any person the copyright either wholly or partially and either generally
> or subject to limitations and either for the whole term of the copyright or
> any part thereof;
> Provided that in the case of the assignment of copyright in any futher work,
> the assignment shall take effect only when the work comes into existence:
> [Provided further that no such assignment shall be applid to any medium or
> mode of exploitation of the work which did not exist or was not in
> commercial use at the time when the assignment was made, unless the
> assignment specifically referred to such medium or mode of exploitation or
> the work:
> Provided also that the author or the literary or musical work included in a
> cinematograph film shall not assign or waive the right to receive royalties
> to be shared on an equal basis with the assignee of copyright for
> utilization of such work in any from other than for the communication to the
> public of the work along with the cinematograph film in a cinema hall,
> except to the legal heirs of the authors or to a copy right society for
> collection and distribution and any agreement to contrary shall be void:
> Provided also that the author of the literary or musical work included in
> the sound recording but not forming part of any cinematograph film shall not
> assign or waive the right to receive royalties to be shared on an equal
> basis with the assignee of copyright for any utilization of such work except
> to the legal heirs of the authors or to a collecting society for collection
> and distribution and any assignment to the contrary shall be void.)
> 19\. Mode of assignment.-- [(1) No assignment of the copyright in any work
> shall be valid unless it is in writing signed by the assignor or by his duly
> authorized agent [[(2) The assignment of copyright in any work shall
> identify such work, and shall specify the rights assigned and the duraton
> and territorial extent of such assignment.
(3) The assignment of copyright in any work shall also specify the amount of
[royalty and any other consideration payable], to the author or his legal
heirs during the currency of the assignment and the assignment shall be
http://www.judis.nic.in  82 subject to revision, extension or termination on
terms mutually agreed upon by the parties.
(4) Where the assignee does not exercise the rights assigned to him under any
of the other sub-sections of this section within a period of one year from the
date of assignment, the assignment in respect of such right shall be deemed to
have lapsed after the expiry of the said period unless otherwise specified in
the assignment.
(5) If the period of assignment is not stated, it shall be deemed to be five
years from the date of assignment.
71\. In the present case though SRLA and the SPA are effective for a period of
ten years, the assignment agreement is silent in regard to its tenure.
According to Agi Music, the tenure of the assignment agreement has to be seen
in the context of the entire transaction inter se the parties, and includes
the interpretation of all the agreements as a whole. Thus, and as a
consequence, the Assignment Agreement should also be seen as having the same
tenure of ten years as the SRLA and SPA. Per contra Mr.Ilaiyaraja would urge
that Section 19(5) is clear in stating that if the agreement of assignment is
silent as to tenure it should be deemed to be of five years only.
72\. No doubt, a transaction as between the parties is to be taken in a
holistic fashion. That the Assignment should be seen in a purposive fashion in
cohesion with the rest of a transaction and not in isolation finds support in
the decision of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in the case of
Dorling Kindersley (supra). The Bench held that the provisions of Section
19(5) are not to be interpreted mechanically but should be seen in context of
the transaction, in entirety.
73\. However, the parties in the present case have entered into all agreements
on the same date, mentioning the tenure thereof in two of the
http://www.judis.nic.in  83 agreements. The absence of a mention of tenure in
the assignment agreement cannot thus, in my view, be by omission or oversight.
If the assignor, Mr.Ilaiyaraja, had intended that the assignment be for ten
years then he would have stated so. I cannot persuade myself to accept the
argument that the tenure should be accepted as ten (10) years merely by
implication and assumption. This is all the more the reason that the parties
to the Assignment Agreement on the one hand, and those who entered into the
SRLA and SPA are not identical. One cannot thus, impute the same motives and
compulsions to all the parties and thrust a longer period of assignment upon
the assignor.
74\. Agi Music would argue that the royalties were remitted directly to the
account of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and thus the identity of the parties being different
would not matter or be relevant. I disagree. The mere fact that the royalties
were being received by Mr.Ilaiyaraja is no justification to bypass the
statutory prescription of Section 19(5). In any event, the payments of royalty
have admittedly been only for the period 2007 to 2012. The provisions of
Section 19(5) are mandatory, applicable as a norm. Any variation thereto would
have to be the exception, and such exception is liable to be proved not merely
by implication but conclusively. This is for the reason that the purpose of
the prescription in Section 19 is the protection of rights of the assignor and
this assumes paramount importance. My conclusion is thus that the term of the
assignment agreement is governed by the provisions of Section 19(5) of the Act
and is five years only.
http://www.judis.nic.in  84
75\. The third set of issues are:
C.S.No.625 of 2014:
5\. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any relief against the 2 nd defendant
in view of the agreement entered into between the 2nd defendant and the
various producers of the movies mentioned in “Annexure 1” of the Written
Statement?
6\. Whether the 2nd defendant is entitled to exploit the rights over the
“sound recordings” with regard to songs/music of the movies mentioned in
“Annexure 1” of the Written Statement?
7\. Whether the Suit is liable for misjoinder of parties and whether the
plaint discloses any nexus between the defendants?
8\. Whether the agreement between the plaintiff and his wife and consequently
the agreement between the plaintiff’s wife and the 4th defendant is valid in
the eye of law?
9\. Has the plaintiff assigned his copyright in relation to the songs which
are the subject matter of this suit to his wife vide Assignment Agreement
dated 24.11.2007 and if so, what is the period of assignment?
12\. Has the plaintiff breached the terms of the Assignment Agreement dated
24.11.2007 and/or SRLA?
13\. Has the 4th defendant infringed the copyright of the plaintiff?
14\. To what other reliefs, the parties are entitled to? C.S.No.308 of 2013:
5\. Has the 1st Defendant breached the terms of the Assignment Agreement dated
24.11.2007 and/or SRLA?
http://www.judis.nic.in  85
6\. Has the 2nd Defendant infringed the copyright which was exclusively
granted by the 1st Defendant’s wife to the Plaintiff?
7\. Should the 2nd Defendant be restrained from breaching the negative
covenant contained in Clause 2 of the SRLA?
8\. Is the Plaintiff entitled to the reliefs sought for?
76\. My answers to the third set of issues are in seriatim below and may be
read along with my conclusions in the first and second set of the issues as
well, paragraphs 23 to 65 and paragraphs 67 to 72.
77\. There is no discrepancy with regard to the array of parties and the suit
is held to be maintainable.
78\. As regards the SRLA between Mr.Ilaiyaraja and Agi Music and the
interpretation thereof, nothing survives therein in the light of my
conclusions to issues (1), (3), (4) and (11) in the second set of issues
above. Consequently, issues (8), (9), (12) and (7) are answered accordingly.
79\. As regards the entitlement to relief as against Echo as well as Agi
Music, Mr.Ilaiyaraja has reserved his right to claim damages for infringing
his copyright, accounting and other reliefs under the copyright law and other
provisions of general law in A.No.7701 of 2014. This Application has been
allowed by the learned Single Judge on 03.03.2015 and this order has not been
disturbed in intra court appeal. Thus, the reservation to sue is reiterated,
to be exercised by Mr.Ilaiyaraja, in accordance with law.
80\. Only those decisions as are relevant to the issued discussed by me have
been referred to in the course o the discussions above and not all decisions
as cited by the parties.
http://www.judis.nic.in  86
81\. My conclusions in regard to the issues that arise in each suit are as
follows:
C.S.No.625 of 2014:
(i) The second defendant, Echo, has obtained rights in regard to the ‘sound
recordings’ comprised in the films covered under the Agreements in Annexure 1
to its written statement and is entitled to exploit the same, specifically and
strictly in the form and manner as contained in the respective cinematograph
films only.
(ii)The plaintiff is entitled to Special, Moral rights in regard to the
‘musical works’ composed by him upon which the ‘sound recordings’ in question
are based, in line with Section 57 of the Copyright Act. This entitles him to
claim authorship of his work, take all measures necessary to preserve the
integrity and purity of his work, honour and reputation and exploit such
‘musical works’ in any manner as he may desire, only barring in the form of
the connected sound recordings that are an integral part of the cinematograph
films, for which Copyright is held by the respective producers of the films.
(iii) The plaintiff has reserved his right to initiate proceedings for damages
and other monitory reliefs as against the respondents in Application No.7701
of 2014, which application was allowed on 03.03.2015. In the light of the said
reservation, the right of the plaintiff to urge reliefs as reserved, in
accordance with law, is reiterated.
http://www.judis.nic.in  87 C.S.No.625 of 2014 is decreed in the aforesaid
terms. In the light of the facts and circumstances of the case and the
discussion as noted above, there will be no order as to costs.
C.S.No.308 of 2013:
(i) The Assignment Agreement and Sound Recording Licensing Agreement, both
dated 24.11.2007, are valid.
(ii) The period of the Assignment Agreement is five years and the provisions
of Section 19(5) of the Copyright Act 1957 apply to the present facts.
(iii) Consequently no implied term may be read into the assignment extending
its term beyond the period stipulated under the statute.
(iv) Mrs.Jeevaraja is not an agent of Mr.Ilaiyaraja and is only an assignee.
(v) There is no breach of the negative covenant contained in Clause 2 of the
SRLA, or any other terms thereof, by the first defendant.
C.S.No.308 of 2013 is dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs.
82\. The Maestro, Mr.Ilaiyaraja, strode the music world like a colossus,
incorporating several novel elements from folk tunes as well as western
sensibilities, merging notes, words, feelings and emotions, seamlessly. To the
thousands of his admirers, the author of this judgement included, the music of
the Maestro was simply, sheer magic. It dissolved barriers, made the
incomplete, complete and the world an infinitesimally better place to be in.
Nowhere is this more apparent than from the fact that all counsels who argued
the matters, though divided in their interpretation of the law, were united in
their adulation of his music. http://www.judis.nic.in  88
83\. My sincere appreciation to the assistance rendered by Mr.Perumbulavil
Radhakrishnan, Mr.Satish Kumar and Mr.Aniruddh Krishnan.
                     Index : Yes/No
                     Speaking order/non-speaking order                        04.06.2019
                     Ska/sl
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                            89
PLAINTIFF'S SIDE WITNESSES in C.S.No.625 of 2014 :- Mr.R.Ilaiyaraja - P.W.1
Mr.Agilan Lechaman – D.W.1 Mr.P.Rajasekar – D.W.2 PLAINTIFF'S SIDE DOCUMENTS
in C.S.No.625 of 2014:- Ex.A1 - 21.02.2014 Plaintiff and Producer Council
letter head. Ex.A2 - List of Movies composed by the plaintiff issued by TN
Film Producers Council.
Ex.A3 - 22.05.2014 Defamation Complaint given by Fans Club of the plaintiff to
the Commissioner of Police.
Ex.A4 - 12.06.2014 Postal Return Cover sent by plaintiff to the 1st defendant.
Ex.A5 - 12.06.2014 Postal Return Cover sent by plaintiff to the 4th defendant.
Ex.A6 - 05.06.2014 Notice of plaintiff to the 4th defendant.
                     Ex.A7 -                Copy of Web Site Publication.
                     Ex.A8 -                Copy of Statement of accounts of the 4th defendant
who have to settle the royalty amount of the years of 2007-2014.
                     Ex.A9 -                Copy of the Catalogue.
                     Ex.A10 -               Royalty paid to the plaintiff from 01.04.1984 to
                                             31.03.1985.
                     Ex.A11 - 19.07.1986    Statement of Royalty.
                     Exs.A12 to A32 -       Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty
dated 23.01.1987, 19.02.1987, 27.02.1987, 09.03.1987, 10.03.1987, 12.03.1987,
27.03.1987, 01.04.1987, 08.04.1987, 30.04.1987, 06.05.1987, 14.05.1987,
19.05.1987, 25.06.1987, 03.07.1987, 06.07.1987, http://www.judis.nic.in  90
09.07.1987, 18.07.1987, 03.08.1987, 27.08.1987, 12.09.1987.
Ex.A33 - 05.10.1987 Details of the Cheque Payment made to the plaintiff.
                     Exs.A34 to A.40 -          Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty
                                                  dated    15.10.1987,     27.10.1987,     05.11.1987,
07.11.1987, 16.11.1987, 27.11.1987, 15.12.1987. Ex.A41 - Statement of Royalty
from Jan. 1988 to Aug. 1988. Exs.A42 to A71 - Invoice-Cum-Challan in
Connection with Royalty dated 10.03.1988, 12.03.1988, 31.03.1988, 02.04.1988,
05.04.1988, 08.04.1988, 11.04.1988, 14.04.1988, 15.04.1988, 19.04.1988,
21.04.1988, 22.04.1988, 25.04.1988, 25.04.1988, 03.05.1988, 05.05.1988,
06.05.1988, 11.05.1988, 16.05.1988, 20.05.1988, 24.05.1988, 03.06.1988,
08.06.1988, 09.06.1988, 14.06.1988, 18.06.1988, 22.06.1988, 09.07.1988,
15.07.1988, 19.07.1988.
Ex.A72 - Statement of Royalty from Sep. 1988 to Dec. 1988. Exs.A73 to A75-
Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with royalty dated 03.08.1988, 04.08.1988,
23.09.1988.
Ex.A76 - Dispatch Note from 06.10.1988 to 27.12.1988. Exs.A77 & A78 - Invoice-
Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty dated 15.10.1988 & 21.10.1988.
Ex.A79 - Dispatch Note from 06.01.1989 to 14.03.1989. Ex.A80 - Statement of
Royalty from Jan. 1989 to Mar. 1989. Exs.A81 to A.85 - Invoice-Cum-Challan in
Connection with Royalty dated 13.01.1989, 21.02.1989, 28.02.1989, 06.03.1989,
15.05.1989.
Ex.A86 - Letter dated 16.05.1989 sent by plaintiff. Ex.A87 – 12.07.1989
Invoice-Cum-Challan in Connection with Royalty. Defendants' side documents in
C.S.No.625 of 2014:- Ex.B.1 – Producer’s counsel letter in the letter head.
http://www.judis.nic.in  91 Ex.B.2 – List of movies music composed by
Mr.Ilaiyaraja issued by TN Film Producers counsel.
Ex.B.3- Complaint given by one Mr.M.Ramesh to the Commissioner of Police,
Egmore.
Ex.B.4- Postal return cover which has been sent to the first defendant’s
counsel. Ex.B.5- Postal return cover which has been sent to the fourth
defendant’s counsel. Ex.B.6 – Office copy of notice sent to the fourth
defendant. Ex.B.7-Copy of web site publication.
Ex.B.8- copy of statement of accounts of the fourth defendant who have to
settle the royalty amount.
Ex.B9 - 24.11.2007 Assignment agreement by the plaintiff in favour of his
wife.
Ex.B10 - 24.11.2007 Sound recording licensing agreement.
                     Ex.B11 - 24.11.2007       Sub publishing agreement.
                     Ex.B12 - 24.11.2007       Letter of authorization by the plaintiff in favour of
                                                  the 4th defendant.
                     Ex.B13 - 24.11.2007       Letter of authorization by the plaintiff’s wife in favour
                                                of the 4th defendant.
                     Ex.B14 - 24.11.2007      CD signed by the plaintiff and his wife.
                     Ex.B15 - 06.01.2010      Let the music play on “The Hindu” –Online
                                                Newspaper article.
                     Ex.B16 - 20.07.2012      SMS screenshots between the plaintiff and the
                                                4th defendant.
                     Ex.B17-18.05.2010        Letter for continuing membership by the
                                               4th defendant with IPRS.
Ex.B18-12.07.2011Letter to IPRS by the 4th defendant.
Ex.B19-06.01.2010Addendum No:1 and list of songs. Ex.B20- 03.02.2010 Blog post
of the managing director of the 4th defendant company.
Ex.B21- 12.07.2011 Letter of authorization.
Ex.B22-11.12.2013Notice for the plaintiff to the 4th defendant’s advocate and
reply.
Exs.B23 & -01.04.1992 Deed of partnership entered into between the B24
plaintiff, his wife and son.
Ex.B25 - Immigration stamping in Mr.Agilan’s Passport. Ex.B26-15.10.2004 to -
Statement of royalties paid by the 4th defendant 23.09.2013 Ex.B30 -
Authorisation Letter.
Ex.B31-09.12.1987- Paasa Paravaigal-Poombhar Production. Ex.32-08.10.1981-
Payanangal Mudivathillail-Motherland Pictures. Ex.33-22.11.1989- Keladi
Kanmani-Vivek Chitra. Ex.B34- 02.07.1990- Enn Rasavin Manasile-Redsun Art
Creations. Ex.B35 01.06.1983- Oru Odai Nadhiyagiradhu-Chitralaya Movies.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                          92
                     Ex.B36-17.10.1988-     Varusham 16-Ganga Chitra.
                     Ex.B37- 16.05.1990-    Gopura Vasalile-Arul Nidhi arts.
                     Ex.B38-03.10.1985-     Padum Paravaigal-K.R.Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B39-14.06.1990-     Michel Madhan Kamarajan-P.A.Art Production.
                     Ex.B40- 12.09.1990-    Nadigan-Raj Film International.
                     Ex.B41.27.12.1990-     Dharmadurai-Rasi Kalamandhir.
                     Ex.B42-07.02.1991-     Chinna Thambi-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B43-14.06.1990-     Captain Prabahkaran-I.V.Cini Productions.
                     Ex.B44- 22.03.1989-    Siva-Kavithaalayaa Productions.
                     Ex.B45—08.11.1989-     Kizhakku Vasal-Sathya Jothi Films.
                     Ex.B46-09.05.1988-     Dharmathin Thalaivan-Dhandayuthapani Films.
                     Ex.B47-20.12.1990-     Kaval Geetham-Vasan Brothers.
                     Ex.B48- 23.01.1991-    Vetri Padigal-Chitramahal & S.A.Enterprises.
                     Ex.B49-23.02.1982-     Pudhu Kavithai-Kavithaalaya.
                     Ex.B50-23.05.1990-     My Dear Marthandan-Sivaji Productions.
                     Ex.B51-10.06.1990-     Adhisiya Piravi-Sri Lakshmi Productions.
                     Ex.B52- 19.05.1986-    Maaveeran-Padmalaya Pictures/R.K.Productions.
                     Ex.B53-24.06.1988-     Pick Pocket- K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B54 01.02.1990-     En Uyir Thozhan-B.R. Art Films.
Ex.B.55- 18.11.1989- Anjali-Sujatha Productions.
Ex.B56- 14.03.1988- Gayathiri Films.
Ex. B57- 03.02.1990- Mallu Veati Minor -Everest Films. Ex.B58- 14.06.1990-
Pudhu Paatu-Ilaiyaraaja Creations. Ex.B59-05.08.1989- Thalattu Paadava-
Rawoothar Films. Ex.B60-28.03.1988- Guru Sishyan-P.A.Art Productions.
Ex.B.61-07.11.1986- Kadal Parisu-Sathya Movies. Ex.B62- 07.11.1986- Mandhira
Punagai-Sathya Movies. Ex.B63-17.01.1989- Vaathiyar Veetu Pillai-Raja Films
International. Ex.B.64 -24.07.1990- Sirayil Sila Raagangal-Sri Lakshmi Vani
Pictures. Ex.B65-14.12.1990- Pudhu Nellu Pudhu Naathu-Mookambikai Cine Arts.
Ex.B66-21.11.1986- Ninaive Oru Sangeetham-V.N.S.Films. Ex.B67-15.06.1989-
Thiruppumunai-B.K.Enterprises. Ex.B68-02.12.1989- Orru Vittu Orru
Vandhu-S.P.T.Films. Ex.B69 26.03.1983- Adutha Varisu-Dwarakesh Chitra.
Ex.B.70-14.11.1990- Thanthu Viten Ennai-Chitraalaya Movies. Ex.B71-25.11.1987-
Poonthota Kaavalkaran-Tamil Annai Cine Creations. Ex.B72-25.06.1989- Engitta
Mothathe-Rajeswari Productions. Ex.B73-11.05.1990- Mownam Sammadham-Kaycee
Films Combines.
                     Ex.B74-23.09.1985-     Aan Paavam-Alamu Movies.
                     Ex.B75-04.11.1988-     En Purushan Enakku Mattumthan-Manthraalaya           Cine
                                            Creations.
                     Ex.B76-10.09.1984-     Thendrale Ennai Thodu-Devi Royal Productions.
                     Ex.B77-14.02.1990-     Unnai Solli Kutramillai-Kavithaalayaa Productions.
                     Ex.B78-27.04.1985-     Poove Poochudava-Navodhaya Films.
                     Ex.B79-31.12.1983-     Nooravadhu Naal-Thirupathy Samy Pictures.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                          93
                     Ex.B80-30.11.1983-     Idhayakoil-Motherland Pictures.
                     Ex.B81-30.11.1983-     Naan Padum Padal-Motherland Pictures.
                     Ex.B82-30.11.1983-     Udhaya Geetham- Motherland Pictures.
                     Ex.B83-30.11.1983-     Unnai Naan Santhithen- Motherland Pictures.
                     Ex.B84-08.10.1981-     Thanikaatu Raaja-Suresh Productions.
                     Ex.B85-09.09.1986-     Sippikul Muthu-Poornodhaya Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B86- 14.03.1985-    Naan Sigappu Manithan-Lakshmi Productions.
                     Ex.B87-24.03.1990-     Sir I Love You-Jagan Mohini Films.
                     Ex.B88-02.06.1983-     Thangamagan-Sathya Movies.
                     Ex.B89-28.06.1985-     Padikkathavan-Sree Eswari Productions.
                     Ex.B90-14.08.1990-     Eeramana Rojave-Kayar Enterprises.
                     Ex.B91-17.08.1990-     Thangamalai Thirudan-Vijayalakshmi Art Pictures.
                     Ex.B92-03.02.1990-     Manidha Jathi-Everest Films.
                     Ex.B93-10.03.1982-     Kadhal Oviyam-Manoj Creations.
                     Ex.B94-26.04.1985-     Kadalora Kavithaigal-Mookambika Art Creations.
                     Ex.B95-15.12.1982-     Vellai Roja-Film Co.
                     Ex.B96-27.02.1990-     Pudhiya Raagam-Ambrish Pictures.
                     Ex.B97-04.08.1989-     Pulan Visaranai-I.V.Cine Productions.
                     Ex.B98-03.07.1985-     Kannukku Maiezhudhu-Bluemoon Movies.
                     Ex.B99-03.06.1986-     Rettai Vaal Kuruvi-Sagar Combines.
                     Ex.B100-29.08.1985-    Vikram-Rajkamal International.
                     Ex.B101-19.08.1987-    Kannukkoru Vannakili-Sarvam Combines.
Ex.B.102-24.04.1985- Chinna Veedu-Jaya Vijaya Movies. Ex.B103-23.07.1989-
Padicha Pulla-Sri Chowdeshwari Pictures. Ex.B104-15.11.1986- Jallikattu-Seetha
Lakshmi Art Films. Ex.B105-08.02.1989- Pattukku Oru Thalaivan-Tamil Annai Cine
Creations. Ex.B106-26.11.1986- Chinna Thambi Periya Thambi-Chemba Creations.
Ex.B107. 17.08.1989- Pattukku Naan Adimai-Sree Misri Films.
Ex.B108-10.05.1985- Kungumachimzh-Sun Flower Creations. Ex.B109-15.12.1989-
Arangetravelai-Sunitha Productions. Ex.B110-14.07.1986- En Jeevan Paaduthu-
Panchu Associates. Ex.B111-10.09.1987- Anand-Sivaji Productions.
Ex.B112-12.12.1984- Pagal Nilavu-Sathya Jothi Films. Ex.B113-27.01.1986-
Neethana Andha Kuyil-Kaladharsun Films. Ex.B114-11.12.1981- Manvasanai-
Gayathri Films. Ex.B115-28.03.1984- Thavani Kanavugal-Parveena Film Circuit.
Ex.B116-24.11.1986- Paadu Nilave-Krishnalayaa Productions. Ex.B117-23.06.1983-
Magudi-S.N.S.Productions. Ex.B118-01.08.1990- Raaja Kaiya Vacha-Aanandhi
Films. Ex.B119-24.02.1990- En Arugil Nee Irundhal-Tamil Thai Movies.
Ex.B120-16.01.1989- Pandi Nattu Thangam-Meenakshi Arts. Ex.B121- 18.05.1988-
Enga Ooru Kavakkaran-Meenakshi Arts. Ex.B122- 04.08.1989- Ponmana
Selvan-V.N.S.Films. Ex.B123-27.01.1990- Kavidhai Padum Alaigal-K.B.Arts.
Ex.B124-11.06.1984- Sadhanai-Pragaas Productions. http://www.judis.nic.in  94
Ex.B125-31.03.1985- Dharmapathini-Sree Shanmugalaaya.
                     Ex.B126-21.01.1985-    Urimai-Mah Creations.
                     Ex.B127-30.11.1985-    December Pookkal-Shri N.R.K.Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B128-14.04.1986-    Manidhanin Marupakkam-Sathya Jothi Films.
                     Ex.B129-07.03.1984-    Nalla Naal-Devar Films.
                     Ex.B130-21.02.1985-    Naane Raja Naane Mandhiri-Appu Movies.
                     Ex.B131-18.03.1985-    Karimedu Karuvayan-Meenakshi Arts.
                     Ex.B132-05.10.1985-    Naanum Oru Thozhilali-Chitraalaya Movies.
                     Ex.B133-08.01.1990-    Indhiran Chandhiran-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B134-19.11.1984-    Padikatha Pannaiyar-Karpaga Lakshmi Pictures.
                     Ex.B135-24.08.1984-    Raajarishi-Bhairavi Films.
                     ExB136-22.06.1987-     Manathil Uruthy Vendum-Kavithalaiya Productions.
                     Ex.B137-16.06.1983-    Kanni Rasi-Vikranth Creations.
                     Ex.B138-19.03.1984-    Kai Rasi Karan-S.K.S.Films.
                     Ex.B139-13.10.1986-    Krishnan Vandhan-S.L.S.Productions.
                     Ex.B140-09.09.1983-    Nilavu Suduvadhillai-Raja Rajeswari Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B141-02.05.1987-    Oruvar Vazhum Aalaiyam-Royal Cine Creations.
                     Ex.B142-23.02.1982-    Kozhi Koovuthu-Pavalar Creations.
                     Ex.B143-04.04.1984-    Aduthathu Albert-Kumaravel Films.
                     Ex.B144-06.01.1989-    Kavalukku Kettikaran-Thiraikoodam.
                     Ex.B145-12.03.1986-    Aruvadai Naal-Sivaji Productions.
                     Ex.B146-10.06.1989-    Anbu Kattalai-Gayathri Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B147-01.03.1986-    Ennai Vittu Pogathe-Sree Kanaga Dhara Art Films.
                     Ex.B148-05.06.1982-    Ilamai Kalangal-Mother Land Pictures.
                     Ex.B149-23.02.1982-    Kanne Radha-Charu Chitra Films.
                     Ex.B150-22.08.1986-    Poovizhi Vasalile-Lakshmi Priya Combines.
                     Ex.B151-25.03.1987-    Ninaikka Therintha Maname-Siva Dharani Movies.
                     Ex.B152-25.06.1988-    Enna Petha Raasa-Red Sun Art Creations.
                     Ex.B153-03.06.1987-    Shenbagame Shenbagame-Sree Lakshmana Films.
                     Ex.B154-28.02.1990-    Periya Veetu Panakkaran-Meenakshi Arts.
                     Ex.B155-16.11.1988-    Enga Ooru Maapillai-V.N.R.Creations.
                     Ex.B156-17.12.1990-    Kumbakara Thangaya-Murugan Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B157-09.03.1988-    Naan       Sonnathe       Sattam-Sree      Mandharaalaya
                                            Chitraalaya.
                     Ex.B158-06.02.1986-    Manaivi Ready-Rathnam Art Movies.
                     Ex.B159-04.11.1988-    Annanukku Jae-Sree Vijaya Jagathambal Movies.
                     Ex.B160-01.02.1985-    Jappanil Kalyanaraman-P.A.Art Productions.
                     Ex.B161.12.06.1990-    Sami Potta Mudichu-Tamil Annai Cine Creations.
                     Ex.B162-27.02.1985-    Annai Bhoomi-Devar Films.
                     Ex.B163-15.05.1986-    Ullam Kavarntha Kalvan-Appu Movies.
                     Ex.B164-03.07.1987-    Gramathu Minnal-Sree Krishnaalaya Arts.
Ex.B.165-14.10.1988- Dharmam Vellum-Kalachithra. Ex.B.166-13.10.1988- Paadatha
Theaneekal-Poombuhar Productions. Ex.B167-05.09.1985- Isai Padum
Thendral-N.C.Creations. Ex.B168-03.11.1982- Aayiram Nilave Vaa-New Wave
Pictures. http://www.judis.nic.in  95 Ex.B169-20.11.1985- Sirai Paravai-
Mandraalaya Cine Creations. Ex.B170-19.05.1985- Geethanjali-Pavalar Creations.
Ex.171-13.04.1984- Eeti-Vivekananda Pictures. Ex.B172-13.10.1988- Thendral
Sudum-G.B.Art Combines. Ex.B173-29.05.1987- Iniya Uravu Poothathu-
Rajakaliyamman Productions. Ex.B174-26.01.1983- Ezuthatha Sattangal-Siva
Shankar Creations. Ex.B175-04.11.1988- Ninaivu Chinnam-Tamil Nadu Movies.
Ex.B.176-10.11.1982- Mudivalla Aarambam-N.M.Enterprises. Ex.B177- 15.05.1989-
Marudhupandi-Ponmanam Films. Ex.B178-03.02.1982- Ninaivellam Nithya-Siva
Sakthi Films. Ex.B.179 24.06.1983- Ullam Urugudhadi-Ganesa Arts.
Ex.B180-29.10.1983- Komberi Mookkan-Lakshmi Santhi Movies. Ex.B181-11.02.1987-
Chinna Kuyil Paaduthu-Karpagam Films. Ex.B182-02.02.1987- Ore Oru Gramathile-
Aries Enterprises.
Ex.B183-30.12.1986- Illam-M.L.G.Creations.
Ex.B.184-21.08.1984- Pudhir-Kamadhenu Art Films. Ex.B185-13.07.1990- Thanga
Thamaraigal-Gangai Film Circuit. Ex.B186-31.10.1986- Alapirandhavan-Prakash
Productions. Ex.B187-23.06.1983- Pozhuthu Vidinjachu-Suraj Enterprises.
Ex.B188- 24.11.1983- Alai Osai-Thirumal Cine Films. Ex.B189-04.07.1984- Raaja
Gopuram-Sree Jayanthi Cine. Ex.B190-24.07.1989- Pondati Thevai-Vivek Chithra.
                     Ex.B191-09.05.1983-    Anne Anne-Kalaivani.
                     Ex.B192-20.09.1984-    Selvi-Dhandayuthapani Films.
                     Ex.B193-12.03.1984-    Anbulla Rajinikanth-S.T.Combines.
                     Ex.B194-23.02.1983-    Anbe Odi Vaa-K.R.Art Pictures.
                     Ex.B195-14.04.1984-    Kaikodukkum Kai-Sree Ragavendhiras.
Ex.B.196-30.08.1987- Irandil Ondru-S.P.T.Films. Ex.B197-11.03.1983- Kokkarako-
Pavalar Creations. Ex.B198-09.07.1986- Vazhga Valarga-Niruma Creations.
Ex.B199-16.07.1986- Salangayil Sangeedham-Suprajeet. Ex.B200-11.06.1988-
Paarthal Pasu-C.R.Productions. Ex.B201-05.10.1985- Maragadha Veenai-Naveena.
Ex.B202-08.02.1986- Thaikku Oru Thaalattu-K.R.G.Films Circuit.
Ex.B203-27.01.1984- Anbin Mugavari-Sree Meenakshi Productions.
Ex.B204-25.07.1989- Raaja Raajathan-Dhanisha Pictures. Ex.B205-26.06.1990-
Amman Koil Thiruvizha-Sree Bairavi Combines. Ex.B206-15.05.1989- Pagalil
Pournami-Kalpana Arts. Ex.B207-16.10.1982- Malayoora Mammattiyan-Sree Devi
Bhagavathi Films. Ex.B208-16.10.1982- Meendum Parasakthi-Sree Devi Bhagavathi
Films. Ex.B209-06.04.1983- Ennai Paar En Azhagai Paar-Crown Films.
Ex.B210-02.09.1985- Iravu Pookkal-Sree Siva Hari Films. Ex.B211-06.09.1982-
Anbulla Malare-V.V.Combains. Ex.B212-23.02.1982- Ethanai Konam Ethanai
Paarvai-V.M.Movies.
                     Ex.B213-12.05.1982-    Jothi-Thai Creations.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                          96
                     Ex.B214-19.05.1982-    Kavithai Malar-S.M.Creations.
                     Ex.B215-28.01.1985-    Thazhuvadha Kaigal-Swarnamiga Movies.
                     Ex.B216-19.09.1981-    Moondram Pirai-Sathya Jothi Films.
                     Ex.B217-08.10.1981-    Aanadha Raagam-Panchu Arts.
                     Ex.B218-27.09.1981-    Thai Mookambikai-Siva Shankar Creations.
                     Ex.B219-24.07.1985-    Mudhal Mariyadhai-Manoj Creations.
                     Ex.B220-25.05.1989-    Siraiyil Pootha Chinna Malar-Sree Thirumala Cine.
                     Ex.B221-06.06.1983-    Manaivi Sollae Mandiram-Everest Films.
Ex.B222- 31.05.1983- Meendum Oru Kathal Kathai-Artist Corporation.
Ex.B223-12.02.1983- Veetiley Raman Veliyile Krishnan-Panchu Movies.
Ex.B224-07.02.1983- Yuha Dharmam-Karpagam Studious. Ex.B225-06.10.1982- Nee
Thodum Pothu-Devi Moogambigai Films. Ex.B226-18.08.1982- Antha Sila Naattkal-
Movie Mogambiga. Ex.B227-26.01.1983- Ragangal Maruvathillai-Vasan Productions.
Ex.B.228-29.04.1982- Magane Magane-Panchu Movies. Ex.B229-15.04.1982- Muthu
Engal Sothu-Parameshwari Enterprises. Ex.B230-15.04.1982- Raani Theni-
Parameshwari Enterprises. Ex.B231-18.05.1982- Gopurangal Saivathillai-Everest
Films. Ex.B232-14.12.1981- Kansivanthal Mansivakkum-Cine India.
Ex.B233-30.10.1981- Manjal NIlla-Manikkam Films. Ex.B234-08.10.1981-
Bhagavathypuram Railway Gate-S.P.Creations. Ex.B235-08.10.1981- Nizhal Thedum
Nenjangal-Siva Chithra Pictures. Ex.B236-08.10.1981- Kelviyyum Naane Pathilum
Naane-S.T.Combines. Ex.B237-17.09.1982- Indru Nee Naalai Naan-Geetha Kamalam
Movies. Ex.B238-03.12.1984- Unnai Thedi Varuven-K.R.G.Films Circuit.
Ex.B239-24.09.1984- Pillai Nila-Kalai Mani Movies. Ex.B240-15.09.1982- Geetha
Vazhipaadu-D.Raja. Ex.B241-31.08.1984- January 1 –P.N.R.Pictures.
Ex.B242-29.02.1984- Needhiyin Marupakkam-V.V.Creations. Ex.B243-30.12.1983-
Neram Nalla Neram-V.R.Movies. Ex.B244-12.11.1983- Murattu Karangal-Hem Nag
Films. Ex.B245-09.09.1983- Thalaiyanai Mandhiram-Naveena Films.
Ex.B246-17.08.1983- Kannathorakkanum Saamy-Punidha Cine Arts.
Ex.B247-04.12.1985- Enakku Naane Nidhipathi-K.C.Films. Ex.B248-07.07.1985-
Unakkagave Vazhgiren-Krishnaalaya Productions. Ex.B249-22.11.1984- My Dear
Kuttichathan-Navodhaya Films.
                     Ex.B250-23.03.1985-    Thangamama-Film Co.
                     Ex.B251-30.08.1987-    Sakkarai Panthal-Meenakchi Arts.
                     Ex.B252-12.06.1987-    Kadamai Kanniyam Kattuppaadu-Raj Kamal              Films
                                            International.
                     Ex.B253-22.05.1987-    Puyal Paadum Paattu-Poombuhar Productions.
                     Ex.B254-22.12.1986-    Dhoorathu Pachai-Sree Lakshmi Art Movies.
                     Ex.B255-25.03.1986-    Africavil Appu-Sree Rajeswari Creations.
Ex.B.256-29.06.1989- Thangamana Raasa-Rekha Movies. Ex.B257-29.06.1989-
Kaiveesamma Kaiveesu-M.B.C.Arts. http://www.judis.nic.in  97
Ex.B258-14.10.1988- Manamagale Vaa-Raja Enterprises. Ex.B259-18.05.1988-
Irumbu Pookkal-Pushpalaaya Movies. Ex.B260-02.01.1988- En Uyir
Kannamma-S.K.S.Films Creations. Ex.B261-30.01.1991- Pudhiya Swarangal-Lalitha
Anjeneya Combines. Ex.B262-14.12.1990- Kadhal Devathai-Vijayanthi Movies.
Ex.B263-01.10.1990- Edhir Katru-Muktha Films.
Ex.B264-18.09.1990- Unnai Vazhthi Paadukirean-Mother Land Pictures.
Ex.B265-05.07.1990- Unnai Nenachean Paattu Padichaen-Sri Pathmavathi Movie
Maker.
Ex.B266-20.10.1982- Mella Pesungal-Kanya Creations. Ex.B267-16.03.1985- Natpu-
Veeralakshmi Combines.
                     Ex.B268-07.10.1982-    En Selvame-M.A.M.Films.
                     Ex.B269-14.12.1981-    Agaya Gangai-Srini Enterprises.
                     Ex.B270-01.02.1982-    Saattai Illa Bhambaram-Punidha Cine Arts.
Ex.B271- 23.01.1983- Oomai Veyil-Dimple Creations.
                     Ex.B272-28.03.1983-    Devi Sridevi-Abhi Arts.
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
Enterprises.
04.06.2019 Ska/sl http://www.judis.nic.in  98 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J.
Ska/sl C.S.No.308 of 2013 and C.S.No.625 of 2014 04.06.2019
http://www.judis.nic.in
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     No.28, Mela Vadambokki Street 2nd
                     Floor Opp Sorkkavasal Koodal
                     Azhagar Perumal Kovil Madurai
                     625001 Tamil Nadu                                             ...Defendants
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules 1956 read with
                     Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 62 of the Copyright Act,
                     1957 praying as follows:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provision of the
                                    Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchisees and all others in any
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                2
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing, selling,
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the Plaintiff Company’s
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     No.28, Mela Vadambokki Street 2nd
                     Floor Opp Sorkkavasal Koodal
                     Azhagar Perumal Kovil Madurai
                     625001 Tamil Nadu                                             ...Defendants
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules 1956 read with
                     Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 62 of the Copyright Act,
                     1957 praying as follows:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provision of the
                                    Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchisees and all others in any
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                2
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing, selling,
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the Plaintiff Company’s
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     No.28, Mela Vadambokki Street 2nd
                     Floor Opp Sorkkavasal Koodal
                     Azhagar Perumal Kovil Madurai
                     625001 Tamil Nadu                                             ...Defendants
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules 1956 read with
                     Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 62 of the Copyright Act,
                     1957 praying as follows:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provision of the
                                    Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchisees and all others in any
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                2
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing, selling,
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    exclusive right under the Copyright Act to deal in any sound recording
                                    composed or made by the 1st Defendant;
                              (c)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from
                                    communicating with the Plaintiff Company’s dealers, suppliers or
                                    customers in a manner adverse to the Plaintiff Company’s reputation
                                    and, in particular, from purporting to question the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    right to exploit the works composed by the 1st defendant or claim
                                    conflicting rights thereto, and to award the costs.
                     C.S.No.625 of 2014
                     Ilaiyaraja                                                  ...Plaintiff
                                                                Vs.
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
                     2.M/s.Modern Cinema
                     No.28, Mela Vadambokki Street 2nd
                     Floor Opp Sorkkavasal Koodal
                     Azhagar Perumal Kovil Madurai
                     625001 Tamil Nadu                                             ...Defendants
                     P R A Y E R: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 of the Original Side Rules 1956 read with
                     Order VII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 62 of the Copyright Act,
                     1957 praying as follows:
                              (a)   A permanent injunction restraining the 1st defendant from violating in
                                    any way the negative covenant (clause 2) or any other provision of the
                                    Agreement dated 24.11.2007, particularly by entering into or
                                    attempting to enter into or, after entering into, by performing or
                                    assisting in the performance of, any agreement with any person
                                    inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement dated 24.11.2007;
                              (b)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant, its agents,
                                    officer, servants, and representatives, franchisees and all others in any
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                2
                                    capacity acting for or on its behalf from manufacturing, selling,
                                    distributing or in any other way infringing the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    exclusive right under the Copyright Act to deal in any sound recording
                                    composed or made by the 1st Defendant;
                              (c)   A permanent injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from
                                    communicating with the Plaintiff Company’s dealers, suppliers or
                                    customers in a manner adverse to the Plaintiff Company’s reputation
                                    and, in particular, from purporting to question the Plaintiff Company’s
                                    right to exploit the works composed by the 1st defendant or claim
                                    conflicting rights thereto, and to award the costs.
                     C.S.No.625 of 2014
                     Ilaiyaraja                                                  ...Plaintiff
                                                                Vs.
                     Ex.B273-14.11.1983-    Sanganatham-Jana Sakthi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
                     Ex.B274-17.08.1984-    Ambhigai Neril Vandhal-Ram Arts.
                     Ex.B275-08.11.1984-    Raja Yuvaraja-Beeyes Art Films.
                     Ex.B276-04.08.1990-    Oorellam Un Paattu-Ayyanar Cine Arts.
                     Ex.B277-26.06.1990-    Vellaiyadevan-Eknath Movie Creations.
                     Ex.B278-26.06.1990-    Thaayamma-P.M.S.Cine Arts. Ex.
                     Ex.B279-31.5.1990-     Vetri Karangal-A Lotus Film Company.
                     Ex.B280-13.07.1989-    Madhurai Veeran Enga Saamy-K.B.Films.
                     Ex.B281-07.03.1990-    Dhuruva Natchathiram-Premier Production.
                     Ex.B282-12.02.1990-    Nee Serithal Deepavali-Usha Productions.
                     Ex.B283-10.11.1982-    Malargal Nanaiginrana-Lakshmi Chithra Movies.
                     Ex.B284-18.11.1981-    Nalladhu Nadandhe Theerum-K.N.Films.
                     Ex.B285-15.11.1982-    Thangamadi Thangam-Vasanthaalayam.
Ex.B286- 31.10.1986- Therkathi Kallan-Everest Films. Ex.B287-10.03.1981-
Engeyo Ketta Kural-P.A.Art Production. Ex.B288-10.06.1989- Paasa Mazhai-
Poombuhar Production. Ex.B289-14.05.1986- Shri Shiradi Sai Baba-Edison
