Allahabad High Court
Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. ... vs State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas ...
on 30 May, 2014
Bench: Ashok Bhushan, Suneet Kumar
    HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
    Reserved on  04.04.2014
                                                              Delivered on  30.05.2014
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48641 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' Secretary Jai Kishan
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi,Anurag Khanna,Ganesh Kumar Verma,Kapil Tyagi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.S. Rana
                                 With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43179 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Balaji Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Ghaziabad
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Through Principal Awas Vikas & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
                                 With
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ankur Enclave Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' President
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,A.S. Rana
                                  With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43162 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Gangotri Sahakari Awas Samtii Ltd. Thru' Its Secry.
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas And Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,G.K. Verma
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
    Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J.
Hon'ble Suneet Kumar,J.
(Delivered by Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J) These four writ petitions filed by
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies raising common questions of facts and
law have been heard together and are being decided by this common judgement.
Counter and rejoinder affidavits have been exchanged in all the writ
petitions, with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, we proceed
to decide all the writ petitions finally.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Vs.
State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is being treated as
leading writ petition. It is sufficient to note the facts and pleadings in
Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 to decide all the writ petitions.
The petitioner, in Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas
Samiti Ltd. Vs. State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is a
registered Housing Cooperative Society within the meaning of U.P. Cooperative
Societies Act, 1965. The society by various sale-deeds purchased the land from
owners in village Kaila and Mitthapur. The sale-deeds were obtained on
different dates from 20th December, 1998 to 28th March, 2000. The Society
purchased the land to provide the residential accommodation to its members
after development. The State Government from time to time had taken various
policy decisions in context of acquisition of land of Registered Housing
Cooperative Societies. A Government Order dated 2nd June, 1998 was issued by
the State Government referring to earlier Government Order dated 9th April,
1980 and 25th April, 1984 by which the State Government to bring uniformity in
acquisition of land by various Development Authorities and U.P. Awas and Vikas
Parishad laid down various conditions for regularising the land of various
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies. The Government Order provided that
in event prior to issuance of notification under Section 4 (of Land
Acquisition Act), the land has been purchased by Housing Cooperative Societies
or it has been sold to its members, the said land shall be regularised under
the Scheme of Awas Evem Vikas Parishad / Development Authorities. The
government order further provided that 60% of the acquired land after
development be made available to the Cooperative Societies. A notification
under Section 28 of U.P. Awas Evem Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 was issued
on 28th November, 1998, for an housing scheme, namely, "Delhi Bulandshar Bye
Pass Road, Bhumi Vikas Evam Grahashthan Yojna Ghaziabad". In the said
notification, land of the petitioner's society was also included. Notification
under Section 32 of the 1965 Act dated 19th September, 2002 was published,
notifying the scheme which scheme was published in the U.P. Gazette dated 12th
October, 2002. The State Government issued a Government Order dated 22nd
October, 2002 laying down the policy decision for regularisation of land of
Registered Cooperative Housing Societies. The State Government in Government
Order dated 22.10.2002 had referred to earlier Government Order dated 10th
September, 2001 after considering the policy as was then existing. The
Government decided to modify the policy of regularisation of land of
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies. Under the new policy, the State
Government laid down several conditions. One of the condition which was
mentioned in the Government Order dated 22nd October, 2002 was to the effect
that only that land of Registered Cooperative Societies be included for
regularisation which was purchased 18 months before issuance of notification
under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act.
After issuance of the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 the U.P. Awas Evam
Vikas Parishad issued a notice dated 27th August, 2003 to the petitioner's
society to appear before the Executive Engineer of the Awas Evam Vikas
Parishad with regard to regularisation of land of society as per Government
Order dated 22nd October, 2002. The detail information from the society was
sought for along with consent for such regularisation.
The petitioner's society raised various objections against the Government
Order dated 22nd October, 2002. Petitioner filed a Writ Petition No. 9157 of
2006 which petition was disposed of by a Division Bench of this Court on
16.2.2006 directing for considering of the representation of the petitioner
submitted before Housing Commissioner. In pursuance of the order of this Court
dated 16.2.2006, the Housing Commissioner rejected the representation of the
Society by order dated 16.9.2006. The Housing Commissioner held in the order
that as per the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 the regularisation of only
that land is permissible which has been purchased 18 months before issuance of
notification under Section 4. It was mentioned that notification under Section
28 of the 1965 Act was published on 28th November, 1998, hence the land of the
petitioner's society is not covered by Government Order dated 22nd October,
2002, hence it cannot be regularised. The writ petitions have been filed by
the petitioner praying for following reliefs :
"(i) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of certiorari to quashing
the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 containing as (Annexure-5) to this writ
petition.
(ii) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of certiorari to quashing
the order dated 16.9.2006 passed by Awas Aayukt Lucknow, contain as (Annexure
No. 10) to this writ petition.
(iii) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus directing the
respondents to 60% development land to be given to the petitioner from the
total area vested in the Society.
(iv) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus directing the
respondents to consider the sale-deed of the petitioner Registered on the
basis of Notification of scheme in regularization.
(v) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus which this
Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the
case.
(vi) To award the cost in favour of the petitioner in this writ petition."
The counter affidavit has been filed both by the State Government as well as
U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad. The State Government in its counter affidavit
has pleaded that the State has been changing its policy on the basis of the
practical experiences and looking to the need of hour. It is pleaded that
after Government Order dated 2nd June, 1998, certain confusion and practical
problems were noticed, hence Government Order dated 22.10.2002 was issued
laying down new policy for regularisation of land of Registered Housing
Cooperative Society in the scheme of U.P. Awas Evem Vikas Parishad. In its
counter affidavit the U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad supported the Government
Order dated 22.10.2002, it was stated that petitioner's land was not covered
by the Government Order dated 22.10.2002, hence claim has rightly been
rejected.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 was dismissed by Division Bench of this
Court vide judgement dated 5.10.2007. The Division Bench dismissed the
aforesaid writ petition by following order dated 5.10.2007 :-
"Heard learned counsel for the parties.
The exemption claimed by the petitioner has been denied on the ground that the
land in question has not been purchased before 18 months of the issuance of
the notification dated 28th November, 1998 under section 28 of Awas Evam Vikas
Parishad Adhiniyam 1965.
We do not find any illegality in the impugned order. The writ petition is
dismissed."
Similarly, the other three writ petitions were also dismissed by this Court
giving almost identical reasons.
Against the order passed by the Division Bench dated 5.10.2007, a Special
Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. 25342 of 2007 was filed before the Apex Court.
Similarly Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) were also filed by the petitioners
of other three writ petitions in the Apex Court. All the Special Leave
petitions were decided by judgement and order dated 1st September, 2010. The
Apex Court set aside the judgement of the High Court observing that the High
Court has not considered the issues raised in the writ petition. The judgement
of the High Court dismissing the writ petition was set aside and the matter
was remitted to the High Court for fresh disposal. It is useful to quote the
order of the Apex Court :-
"Leave granted.
These appeals are directed against orders passed by the Division Bench of
Allahabad High Court dismissing the writ petitions filed by the appellants for
issue of writ of mandamus to the respondents to extend them benefit of the
policy of regularisation of land vested in the Registered Cooperative Housing
Societies.
One of the grounds on which the appellants have challenged the orders of the
High Court is that the writ petitions filed by them were dismissed without
adverting to the legal issues raised therein.
We have heard learned counsel for the parties and are satisfied that the
impugned orders are liable to be set aside because the High Court has not
considered the issues raised in the writ petitions and decided the same by
recording the reasons which it was expected to do while exercising
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Consequently, the appeals are allowed. The impugned orders are set aside and
the matters are remitted to the High Court for fresh disposal of the writ
petitions filed by the appellants by passing speaking orders.
The parties are given liberty to file pleadings / additional pleadings and
documents before the High Court within a period of two months from today."
After the matter was remitted by the Apex Court, the writ petitions have been
heard and are being decided by this common judgement.
We have heard Sri K.N. Tripathi, learned Senior Advocate, Sri Anoop Trivedi,
Sri Rashtrapati Khare, Sri G.K. Verma and Sri Kapil Tyagi for the petitioners.
Sri A.P. Srivastava appearing for the U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad and Sri
Suresh Singh, learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel appearing for the
State.
Learned counsel for the petitioners in support of the writ petition contended
that the State Government had issued a Government Order dated 2nd June, 1998
providing for regularisation of land of Cooperative Societies which were
purchased prior to issuance of notification under Section 4, the petitioners
were entitled to get the benefit as was extended by the Government Order dated
2nd June, 1998 and the State Government could not have withdrawn the said
benefit, by subsequent Government Order dated 22.10.2002. It is submitted that
the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 takes away the vested right of the
petitioners, hence the said Government order is not applicable on the purchase
made prior to issuance of the Government Order. It is submitted that the
Government Order dated 22.10.2002 at best may be prospective. It is submitted
that the State Government having held out a promise to regularise the land of
the Housing Cooperative Societies which were purchased prior to notification
under Section 4, the State is now estopped from changing the policy. It is
submitted that doctrine of promissory estoppel is attracted in the facts of
the present case and the State Government cannot be allowed to change its
policy which was earlier prevalent. It is further submitted that the executive
orders issued by the State Government cannot be made retrospective nor it can
effect earlier policy as was issued by the Government Order dated 2nd June,
1998. It is submitted that petitioners have purchased the land for the same
purpose i.e. for providing residential accommodation to its members and the
scheme notified by U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad is also for the same purpose,
hence the land of the petitioners were entitled to be regularised under the
scheme as per the policy of the Government dated 2nd June, 1998.
Learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel appearing for the State submits that
the State Government is fully entitled to take policy decisions from time to
time and similarly it can amend its policy from time to time as required. It
is submitted that the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 has been issued
changing the earlier policy which was neither workable nor in the public
interest. He submitted that the transaction which were completed prior to
22.10.2010 has not been annulled and the said Government Order was applicable
for regularisation made of the land of Society subsequent to 22.10.2002. It is
submitted that the petitioner's representation has rightly been rejected by
the Housing Commissioner since they were not entitled for regularisation of
their land which was not purchased 18 months before Section 4 notification. It
is submitted that Government has changed its policy after having practical
experience in implementing the policy for last four years. Some of the short
coming of the policy were already noted in the Government Order. He submits
that petitioners are not entitled for relief, their land having not purchased
18 months prior to the issuance of notification under Section 28 of 1965 Act.
Sri A.P. Srivastava, learned counsel for U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad adopted
the submission raised by learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel. He submits
that Housing Commissioner by giving cogent reasons has rejected the
representation which need no interference by this Court in exercise of writ
jurisdiction.
Learned counsel for the parties have also placed reliance on various
judgements of the Apex Court and this Court which shall be referred to while
considering the submissions in detail.
From the submissions of learned counsel for the parties and pleadings on
record, following are the issues which arises for consideration in these writ
petitions.
(i) Whether the State Government which had issued the Government Order dated
2nd June, 1998 extending the promise to regularise the land of Housing
Cooperative Societies which were purchased prior to issuance of notification
under Section 4 (of Land Acquisition Act) is justified in removing / changing
the above policy by providing that for regularisation of land, the land should
have been purchased 18 months prior to section 4 notification.?
(ii) Whether the principle of promissory estoppel is attracted in the facts of
the case and on the said principles the Government Order dated 22.10.2002
deserves to be struck down.?
(iii) Whether petitioners are entitled to get regularisation of their land in
the scheme of U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad, namely, "Delhi Bulandshar Bye
Pass Road, Bhumi Vikas Evam Grahashthan Yojna Ghaziabad" which was purchased
prior to issuance of the notification under Section 28, dated 28th November,
1998.?
All the above issues being interrelated are being taken for consideration
together.
U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad notified the Housing scheme by the notifications
dated 28.11.1998 under Section 28 and the notification dated 19th September,
2002 under Section 32 (1) of the Act, 1963 published in U.P. Gazette on 12th
October, 2002. Immediately, thereafter, Government Order dated 22.10.2002 was
issued bringing substantial change in the earlier policy regarding
regularisation of land of the Registered Housing Cooperative Society. A new
policy for regularisation / absorption of land of Registered Housing
Cooperative Societies was issued. Para 2 (1) and para 3 of the Government
Order is relevant which is quoted as below :-
vkokl vuqHkkx&3 y[kuÅ% fnukad 22 vDVwcj 2002 fo"k;% fucfU/kr lgdkjh vkokl
lfefr;kW dh Hkwfe ds lek;kstu gsrq uhfr
\----------------------------------
2- mi;qZDr fcUnqvksa ds n`f"Vxr fucfU/kr lgdkjh vkokl lfefr;ksa dks Hkwfe ds
lek;kstu ls lEcfU/kr 'kklukns'k la[;k 3718@9&vk&3&2000&20,y-,-@92 Vh-lh-
¼vk&\---½ fnukad 10 fnlEcj] 2001] dks vfrdzfer djrs gq, 'kklu }kjk lE;d
fopkjksijkUr ;g fu.kZ; fy;k x;k gS fd tks lgdkjh vkokl lfefr;kW fuEu ik=rk o
'krsZ iw.kZ djrh gks] mudh Hkwfe dk lek;kstu fodkl izkf/kdj.k] vkokl ,oa fodkl
ifj"kn rFkk lgdkjh vkokl la?k dh ;kstukvksa esa dj fn;k tk,%& 1- lgdkjh vkokl
lfefr us Hkwfe vtZu dh /kkjk&4 dh foKfIr ds fnukad ls de ls de 18 ekg iwoZ
iathd`r cSukes }kjk Hkwfe dz; dh gks vFkok lnL;ksa dks Hkwfe dh jftLVªh dj
j[kh gksA ;fn dqN Hkwfe /kkjk&4 dh foKfIr ds fnukad ls 18 ekg iwoZ dz; dh gks
vkSj dqN Hkwfe ckn esa dz; dh gks rks izLrkfor lqfo/kk dsoy 18 ekg iwoZ esa
dz; dh xbZ Hkwfe ds lEcU/k esa gh izkIr gksxhA ;g Hkh Li"V fd;k tkrk gS fd dz;
djus dk rkRi;Z Hkwfe ds cSukesa ls gS u fd ^^,xzhesUV Vw lsy^^ ls] vFkkZr
lqfo/kk dsoy ml Hkwfe ds lEcU/k esa ns; gksxh ftldk iathd`r cSuke gksxk] 3-
eq>s ;g Hkh dgus dk funsZ'k gqvk gS fd tks lgdkjh vkokl lfefr;k mifjfyf[kr
ik«krk o 'krksZ dks iw.kZ djrh gksa ds vkosnu ij Hkwfe dk okg~; :i ls fodflr
fdUrq vkUrfjd :i ls vfodflr {ks«k ds :i esa lek;kstu djrs le; fuEu 'krksZ ,oa
izfrcU/kksa ds lkFk fopkj fd;k tk, & A perusal of the aforesaid Government
Order indicates that societies whose land have been acquired by U.P. Awas Evam
Vikas Parishad or Development Authorities can make an application for
regularisation of its land provided it fulfil the conditions as laid down in
the Government Order dated 22.10.2002. The Government Order indicates that
regularisation or absorption of land of Registered Housing Cooperative Society
is not automatic rather it is necessary that Housing Cooperative Society may
make an application for absorption. Requirement of making an application has
been consistently provided since there may be cases of housing cooperative
societies who may not be interested in regularisation of their land and they
may be satisfied for compensation to be received consequent to the acquisition
of their land.
The Government order dated 2nd June, 1998, the earlier Government Orders and
subsequent Government Orders including the Government Order dated 22.10.2002
are the Government Orders laying down policy pertaining to regularisation of
land of registered housing co-operative societies. It is well settled that
policy decision taken by the State can be changed from time to time. It is
useful to refer the preposition as laid down in the judgement of Apex Court in
the case of Dhampur Sugar (Kashipur) Vs. State of Uttaranchal and others
(2007) 8 SCC 418 that the State has not only the power to frame a particular
policy but It has untrammelled power to change, re-change, adjust and readjust
the policy. Following was laid down in paragraph 75:
"The State and its instrumentality has also power to change policy. The
executive power is not limited to frame a particular policy. It has
untrammelled power to change, rechange, adjust and readjust the policy taking
into account the relevant and germane considerations. It is entirely in the
discretion of the Government how a policy should be shaped. It should not,
however, be arbitrary, capricious or unreasonable."
The petitioner in support of writ petition has relied on doctrine of
promissory estoppel. Before we proceed further to consider the submissions of
learned Counsel for the petitioner and the issues raised, it is necessary to
recaptualate the basic ingredients of doctrine of promissory estoppel and to
find out as to when the doctrine of promissory estoppel is to be invoked.
The promissory estoppel is not strictly the estoppel as contemplated under
section 115 of the Evidence Act but is an equitable doctrine enforced against
the Government or its instrumentalities estopping it resiling from its promise
or representation on the basis of which promisee has altered his position. The
doctrine was enunciated and explained in Union of India Vs. Anglo Afghan
Agencies, AIR 1968 SC 718 in which case following was laid down in paragraph
23:
"23. Under our jurisprudence the Government is not exempt from liability to
carry out the representation made by it as to its future conduct and it cannot
on some undefined and undisclosed ground of necessity or expediency fail to
carry out the promise solemnly made by it, nor claim to be the judge of its
own obligation to the citizen on an ex parte appraisement of the circumstances
in which the obligation has arisen."
The doctrine has been elaborated and firmly recognised by the apex Court in
the celebrated judgment of Moti Lal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. Vs. State of
U.P. (1979) 2 SCC 409. It was held that since doctrine of promissory estoppel
was an equitable doctrine, it must yield when the equity so requires. It was
also held that if it can be shown by Government that having regard to the
facts as they have transpired, it would be inequitable to hold the Government
to the promise made by it. The Court would not raise an equity in favour of
the promisee. Following was laid down in paragraph 24:
" 24. But it is necessary to point out that since the doctrine of promissory
estoppel is an equitable doctrine, it must yield when the equity so requires.
If it can be shown by the Government that having regard to the facts as they
have transpired, it would be inequitable to hold the Government to the promise
made by it, the Court would not raise an equity in favour of the promisee and
enforce the promise against the Government. The doctrine of promissory
estoppel would be displaced in such a case because, on the facts, equity would
not require that the Government should be held bound by the promise made by
it. When the Government is able to show that in view of the facts as have
transpired since the making of the promise, public interest would be
prejudiced if the Government were required to carry out the promise, the Court
would have to balance the public interest in the Government carrying out a
promise made to a citizen which has induced the citizen to act upon it and
alter his position and the public interest likely to suffer if the promise
were required to be carried out by the Government and determine which way the
equity lies. It would not be enough for the Government just to say that public
interest requires that the Government should not be compelled to carry out the
promise or that the public interest would suffer if the Government were
required to honour it."
In the same paragraph it is further observed that:-
" ....The Government cannot, as Shah,J., pointed out in the Indo-Afghan
Agencies case, claim to be exempt from the liability to carry out the promise
'on some indefinite and undisclosed ground of necessity or expediency', nor
can the Government claim to be the sole judge of its liability and repudiate
it 'on an ex parte appraisement of the circumstances'. If the Government wants
to resist the liability, it will have to disclose to the Court what are the
facts and circumstances on account of which the Government claims to be exempt
from the liability and it would be for the Court to decide whether those facts
and circumstances are such as to render it inequitable to enforce the
liability against the Government. Mere claim of change of policy would not be
sufficient to exonerate the Government from the liability: the Government
would have to show what precisely is the changed policy and also its reason
and justification so that the Court can judge for itself which way the public
interest lies and what the equity of the case demands. It is only if the Court
is satisfied, on proper interest requires that the Government should not be
held bound by the promise but should be free to act unfettered by it, that the
court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the Government, for it is the
Court which has to decide and not the Government whether the Government should
be held exempt from liability. This is the essence of the rule of law. The
burden would be upon the Government to show that the public interest in the
Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the promise is so
overwhelming that it would be inequitable to hold the Government bound by the
promise and the Court would insist on a highly rigorous standard of proof in
the discharge of this burden"
The same proposition was again reiterated in Union of India & Ors. v. Godfrey
Philips India Ltd.etc.etc. (1985) 4 SCC 369. Following was laid down in
paragraph 12:
" 12. There can therefore be no doubt that the doctrine of promissory estoppel
is applicable against the Government in the exercise of its governmental,
public or executive functions and the doctrine of executive necessity or
freedom of future executive action cannot be invoked to defeat the
applicability of the doctrine of promissory estoppel"
The question again came for consideration before the apex Court in (1995) 1
SCC 274 Kasinka Trading and another Vs. Union of India and another. In the
said case, the action of the Union of India for withdrawing a time bound
exemption notification for import of PVC resin was under challenge. The
exemption was to continue in force up to 31.3.1981 but before the expiry of
the time period in the notification, the withdrawal notification was issued on
16.10.1980. It was contended before the High Court as well as before the apex
Court that Government must be held bound by the representation it had made in
the exemption notification and it was estopped on the basis of promissory
estoppel to go back on its promise. Elaborating the doctrine of promissory
estoppel it was held that withdrawal of exemption in public interest was
justified and the appellant could not invoke the doctrine of promissory
estoppel. Following was laid down in paragraphs 11,12,21 and 24.
"11. The doctrine of promissory estoppel or equitable estoppel is well
established in the administrative law of the country. To put it simply, the
doctrine represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice. The
basis of the doctrine is that where any party has by his word or conduct made
to the other party an unequivocal promise or representation by word or
conduct, which is intended to create legal relations or effect a legal
relationship to arise in the future, knowing as well as intending that the
representation, assurance or the promise would be acted upon by the other
party to whom it has been made and has in fact been so acted upon by the other
party, the promise, assurance or representation should be binding on the party
making it and that party should not be permitted to go back upon it, if it
would be inequitable to allow him to do so, having regard to the dealings,
which have taken place or are intended to take place between the parties.
12.It has been settled by this Court that the doctrine of promissory estoppel
is applicable against the Government also particularly where it is necessary
to prevent fraud or manifest injustice. The doctrine, however, cannot be
pressed into aid to compel the Government or the public authority "to carry
out a representation or promise which is contrary to law or which was outside
the authority or power of the officer of the Government or of the public
authority to make". There is preponderance of judicial opinion that to invoke
the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear, sound and positive foundation must
be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking the doctrine and that
bald expressions, without any supporting material, to the effect that the
doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its
position relying on the assurance of the Government would not be sufficient to
press into aid the doctrine. In our opinion, the doctrine of promissory
estoppel cannot be invoked in the abstract and the courts are bound to
consider all aspects including the results sought to be achieved and the
public good at large, because while considering the applicability of the
doctrine, the courts have to do equity and the fundamental principles of
equity must for ever be present to the mind of the court, while considering
the applicability of the doctrine. The doctrine must yield when the equity so
demands if it can be shown having regard to the facts and circumstances of the
case that it would be inequitable to hold the Government or the public
authority to its promise, assurance or representation.
21\. The power to grant exemption from payment of duty, additional duty etc.
under the Act, as already noticed, flows from the provisions of Section 25(1)
of the Act. The power to exempt includes the power to modify or withdraw the
same. The liability to pay customs duty or additional duty under the Act
arises when the taxable event occurs. They are then subject to the payment of
duty as prevalent on the date of the entry of the goods. An exemption
notification issued under Section 25 of the Act had the effect of suspending
the collection of customs duty. It does not make items which are subject to
levy of customs duty etc. as items not leviable to such duty. It only suspends
the levy and collection of customs duty, etc., wholly or partially and subject
to such conditions as may be laid down in the notification by the Government
in "public interest". Such an exemption by its very nature is susceptible of
being revoked or modified or subjected to other conditions. The supersession
or revocation of an exemption notification in the "public interest" is an
exercise of the statutory power of the State under the law itself as is
obvious from the language of Section 25 of the Act. Under the General Clauses
Act an authority which has the power to issue a notification has the undoubted
power to rescind or modify the notification in a like manner. From the very
nature of power of exemption granted to the Government under Section 25 of the
Act, it follows that the same is with a view to enabling the Government to
regulate, control and promote the industries and industrial production in the
country. Notification No. 66 of 1979 in our opinion, was not designed or
issued to induce the appellants to import PVC resin. Admittedly, the said
notification was not even intended as an incentive for import. The
notification on the plain language of it was conceived and issued on the
Central Government "being satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do". Strictly speaking, therefore, the notification cannot be
said to have extended any 'representation' much less a 'promise' to a party
getting the benefit of it to enable it to invoke the doctrine of promissory
estoppel against the State. It would bear repetition that in order to invoke
the doctrine of promissory estoppel, it is necessary that the promise which is
sought to be enforced must be shown to be an unequivocal promise to the other
party intended to create a legal relationship and that it was acted upon as
such by the party to whom the same was made. A notification issued under
Section 25 of the Act cannot be said to be holding out of any such unequivocal
promise by the Government which was intended to create any legal relationship
between the Government and the party drawing benefit flowing from of the said
notification. It is, therefore, futile to contend that even if the public
interest so demanded and the Central Government was satisfied that the
exemption did not require to be extended any further, it could still not
withdraw the exemption.
24\. It needs no emphasis that the power of exemption under Section 25(1) of
the Act has been granted to the Government by the Legislature with a view to
enabling it to regulate, control and promote the industries and industrial
productions in the country. Where the Government on the basis of the material
available before it, bona fide, is satisfied that the "public interest" would
be served by either granting exemption or by withdrawing, modifying or
rescinding an exemption already granted, it should be allowed a free hand to
do so. We are unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that
Notification No. 66 of 1979 could not be withdrawn before 31-3-1981. First,
because the exemption notification having been issued under Section 25(1) of
the Act, it was implicit in it that it could be rescinded or modified at any
time if the public interest so demands and secondly it is not permissible to
postpone the compulsions of "public interest" till after 31-3-1981 if the
Government is satisfied as to the change in the circumstances before that
date. Since, the Government in the instant case was satisfied that the very
public interest which had demanded a total exemption from payment of customs
duty now demanded that the exemption should be withdrawn it was free to act in
the manner it did. It would bear a notice that though Notification No. 66 of
1979 was initially valid only up to 31-3-1979 but that date was extended in
"public interest", we see no reason why it could not be curtailed in public
interest. Individual interest must yield in favour of societal interest."
To the same effect are the judgements of the apex Court in (1995) 6 SCC 53,
Arvind Industries and others Vs. State of Gujrat & others and (1996) 5 SCC 468
D.C.M. Ltd. Vs. Union of India and others. In D.C.M. Ltd. (supra), the Central
Government sanctioned a scheme in November, 1975 providing incentive to new
sugar factories and also to those sugar factories who had applied for and
completed their expansion projects during the period 1.11.75 to 20.10.80. The
incentives consisted partly of higher percentage of levy-free sugar quota and
partly of concessions in the excise duty. The Central Government w.e.f.
17.12.1979 again modified the sugar policy to provide for partial control with
dual pricing as was the situation prior to August 16, 1978. The Government
after examining the various altered parameters for revising the scheme
announced a revised scheme to provide incentives to the new sugar factories
and expansion projects. This revised scheme came into effect from the sugar
year 1980-81. The new scheme of the year 1980 was made applicable even to
those industries who were otherwise entitled to the benefit of the scheme
announced in the year 1975. The appellants after completing the expansion
projects at the two places, on 6.8.80 and 13.8.80 applied for necessary
eligibility certificate for additional free-sale sugar entitlements as per the
'incentives announced. The respondents allowed the incentives as per the
revised 1980 scheme. However, the appellants asserted that the incentives as
per the scheme announced in the year 1975 must be given to them. A writ
petition was filed by the appellant which was dismissed by the High Court and
an appeal was filed in the apex Court which too was dismissed. The apex Court
laid down following in paragraphs 6,7 and 9:
"6. We have considered the rival submissions. It is well- settled that the
doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to
avoid injustice and, though commonly named promissory estoppel, it is neither
in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel. The basis of this
doctrine is the inter--position of equity which has always, proved to its
form, stepped in to mitigate the rigour of strict law. It is equally true that
the doctrine of promissory estoppel is not limited in its application only to
defence but it can also found a cause of action. This doctrine is applicable
against the Government in the exercise of its governmental public or executive
functions and the doctrine of executive necessity or freedom of future
executive action, cannot be invoked to defeat the applicability of this
doctrine. It is further well- established that the doctrine of promissory
estoppel must yield when the equity so require. If it can be shown by the
Government or public authority that having regard to the facts as they have
transpired, it would be unequitable to hold the Government or public authority
to the promise or representation made by it, the court would not raise an
equity in favour of the person to whom the promise or representation is made
and enforce the promise or representation against the Government or public
authority. The doctrine of promissory estoppel would be displaced in such a
case because on the facts, equity would not require that the Government or
public authority should be held bound by the promise or representation made by
it (vide Godfrey Philips case)
7\. In this case we have found that the Government before refusing the
incentive scheme of the year 1975 have taken into account various factors
including the decontrol of sale of sugar for the period from 16.8.78 to
17.12.79. Further if the prayer of the appellants were to be allowed, several
lakhs of quintals of sugar will have to be released as incentive levy-free
sugar which otherwise meant for public distribution system. We agree with the
learned Judges of the High Court when they observed that the 'petitioners who
availed of the resulting benefit due to decontrol cannot in all fairness lay
claim to be restored the benefit of the incentives in full now over again
though the basic premise became non-existent. The benefit under the subsequent
scheme in force from November 15, 1980 has already been accorded to them in
full measure'.
9.Taking all these factors into consideration, we have no doubt that on the
facts of this case, the Principle of Promissory Estoppel has no application at
all. The judgment relied on by the learned Senior counsel for the appellants,
namely, Godfrey Philips case supports the case of the respondents on facts. In
the result the appeal fails and is accordingly dismissed. No costs."
In (1998) 1 SCC 572 Sales Tax Officer and another Vs. Shree Durga Oil Mills
and another, the claim was made by the respondent mill on the basis of
Industrial Policy Resolution dated 18.7.1979 of the Government of Orissa to
the effect that sales tax was not payable by a new industry on the purchase of
raw materials for the period prescribed in the industrial policy resolution.
The case of the writ petitioner before the High Court was that it set up its
industry pursuant to industrial policy resolution. It obtained huge loans from
United Bank of India hence, it was entitled for tax exemption in terms of the
IPR. The High Court allowed the writ petition on the ground that in the IPR, a
clear and unequivocal promise had been made. The appeal was filed, wherein the
apex court reversed the judgment of the High Court and laid down following in
paragraphs 14,17,22 and 24.
"14. Moreover, the Government may change its industrial policy if the
situation so warrants. merely because, the I.P.R. as announced for the period
1979-1983, it does not mean that the Government cannot amend or change the
policy under any circumstance. As a matter of fact, in this case the
Government had published another I.P.R. on 31.7.1980 modifying the earlier
I.P.R. The vires of the Second I.P.R. has not been challenged. The two I.P.Rs.
have not been issued under any particular statute. A general announcement was
made by the Government that certain economic policy would be pursued for the
acceleration of the growth of the industrial sector in the State of Orissa.
For that purpose, a package of measures for stimulating the growth of
industries were announced. It was specifically made clear in the I.P.R. dated
18.7.1979 that:
"Government orders will issue laying down the mode of administering the
concessions and incentives by departments concerned."
17.Moreover, it is well settled that any I.P.R. can be changed if there is an
overriding public interest involved. it has been stated on affidavit by the
State of Orissa that after a package of incentives was given to the
industries, the Government was faced with severe resource crunch. On a review
of its financial position, it was felt that for the sake of the economy of the
State, it was necessary to limit the scope of exemption granted to various
industries. Accordingly, further notifications were issued under Section 6 of
the Orissa Sales Tax Act from time to time. Because of this new perception of
the economic scenario, the scope of the earlier notifications was restricted
by subsequent notifications issued under Section 6. This also led to issuance
of the second I.P.R. dated 31.7.1980.
22\. The view taken by its Court in Kasinka's case was reiterated by a Bench
of three-judges in the case of Shrijee Sales Corporation & Anr. Vs. Union of
India (1997) 3 SCC 398. It was laid down in that case that the determination
of applicability of promissory estoppel against the Government hinges upon
balance of equity or public interest. In case there is a supervening public
equity, the Government would be allowed to change its stand; it would then be
able to withdraw from representation made by it which induced persons to take
certain steps which may have gone adverse to the interest of such persons on
account of such withdrawal. Once public interest was accepted as the superior
equity which can override individual equity, the aforesaid principle should be
applicable even in cases where a period had been indicated for operation of
the promise. In that case, a notification was issued exempting customs duty on
PVC. By a second notification the exemption was withdrawn. The Court held that
the facts of the case revealed that there was a supervening public interest
and the Government was competent to withdraw the first notification without
giving any prior notice to the respondent.
24.In our opinion, the plea of change of policy trade on the basis of resource
crunch should have been sufficient for dismissing the respondent's case based
on the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Public interest demanded modification
of the earlier I.P.R."
The principles were again reiterated in (2005) 1 SCC 625 Bannari Amman Sugars
Ltd. Vs. Commercial Tax Officer and others. The appellants questioned legality
of the order dated 1.9.1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption
in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of Rs. 300 lakhs during the period
of five years, and Government letter dated 28.12.1988 which made the order
dated 1.9.1988 operative retrospectively from 1.4.1988. The writ petition was
dismissed by the High Court negativing the plea of promissory estoppel against
which an appeal was filed. The apex Court laid down in the said case that
there is a discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive
powers. However, the change in policy must be made fairly and not arbitrarily.
Following was laid down in paragraphs 9 and 20:
"9. While the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive
power, when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough, what is
imperative and implicit in terms of Article 14 is that a change in policy must
be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily
or by any ulterior criteria. The wide sweep of Article 14 and the requirement
of every State action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone
irrespective of the field of activity of the State is an accepted tenet. The
basic requirement of Article 14 is fairness in action by the State, and non-
arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play. Actions
are amenable, in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the
State must act validly for discernible reasons, not whimsically for any
ulterior purpose. The meaning and true import and concept of arbitrariness is
more easily visualized than precisely defined. A question whether the impugned
action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and
circumstances of a given case. A basic and obvious test to apply in such cases
is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the
impugned action and if so, does it really satisfy the test of reasonableness.
20\. In Shrijee Sales Corporation and Anr. v. Union of India (1897 (3) SCC
398) it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior
equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable
even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
If there is a supervening public equity, the Government would be allowed to
change its stand and has the power to withdraw from representation made by it
which induced persons to take certain steps which may have gone adverse to the
interest of such persons on account of such withdrawal. Moreover, the
Government is competent to rescind from the promise even if there is no
manifest public interest involved, provided no one is put in any adverse
situation which cannot be rectified. Similar view was expressed in Pawan
Alloys and Casting Pvt. Ltd. Meerut etc. etc. v. P.P. State Electricity Board
and Ors. (AIR 1997 SC 3810 ) and in Sales Tax officer and Anr. v. Shree Durga
Oil Mills and Anr. (1998 (1) SCC 573), it was further held that the Government
could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely
because the resolution was announced for a particular period, it did not mean
that the government could not amend and change the policy under any
circumstances. If the party claiming application of the doctrine acted on the
basis of a notification it should have known that such notification was liable
to be amended or rescinded at any point of time, if the government felt that
it was necessary to do so in public interest."
A Bench of three Judges in 2011(3) SCC 193 Shree Sidhbali Steels Limited and
others Vs. State of U.P. And others after considering all relevant decisions
on the subject, had laid down following in paragraphs 32 and 33:
"32. The doctrine of promissory estoppel is by now well recognized and well
defined by catena of decisions of this Court. Where the Government makes a
promise knowing or intending that it would be acted on by the promise and, in
fact, the promise, acting in reliance on it, alters his position, the
Government would be held bound by the promise and the promise would be
enforceable against the Government at the instance of the promise
notwithstanding that there is no consideration for the promise and the promise
is not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by Article 229 of
the Constitution. The rule of promissory estoppel being an equitable doctrine
has to be molded to suit the particular situation. It is not a hard and fast
rule but an elastic one, the objective of which is to do justice between the
parties and to extend an equitable treatment to them. This doctrine is a
principle evolved by equity, to avoid injustice and though commonly named
promissory estoppel, it is neither in the realm of application of doctrine of
promissory estoppel the promise must establish that he suffered in detriment
or altered his position by reliance on the promise.
33\. Normally, the doctrine of promissory estoppel is being applied against
the Government and defense based on executive necessity would not be accepted
by the Court. However, if it can be shown by the Government that having regard
to the facts as they have subsequently transpired, it would be inequitable to
hold the Government to the promise made by it, the Court would not raise an
equity in favour of the promise and enforce the promise against the
Government. Where public interest warrants, the principles of promissory
estoppel cannot be invoked. Government can change the policy in public
interest. However, it is well settled that taking cue from this doctrine, the
authority cannot be compelled to do something which is not allowed by law or
prohibited by law. There is no promissory estoppel against the settled
proposition of law. Doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be invoked for
enforcement of a promise made contrary to law, because none can be compelled
to act against the statute. Thus, the Government or public authority cannot be
compelled to make a provision which is contrary to law."
At this juncture, it is relevant to note that certain other judgements of the
Apex Court which have been relied upon by the learned counsel for the parties
in support of their respective submissions.
Learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to a judgement of the Apex
Court report in (1990) 1 SCC 583 Ghaziabad Sheromani Sahkari Avas Samiti
Limited and others Vs. State of U.P. and others. In the said case five
cooperative societies have challenged the notifications under Section 4 read
with Section 17 where the land of cooperative society was acquired. The writ
petition was dismissed by the High Court against which the societies
approached the Apex Court. In the said case the Apex Court examined the case
of the petitioner for release of the land. The Apex Court held that release of
about 20 acres of land for five housing co-operative societies shall be
sufficient to meet the requirement of the members of the societies. The said
judgement of the Apex Court was on its own facts and no such preposition was
laid down in the said case which may help the petitioners in the present case.
The petitioner also relied on certain judgements for the preposition that
executive orders can have no retrospective effect nor it can destroy any right
which has been crystallized. Reliance has been placed of the judgement of Apex
Court in 1994 (Supp.) 3 SCC 451 Uday Pratap Singh; D N Sinha V/s State of
Bihar. The Apex Court in the said case laid down following in paragraphs 6 :-
"6. By a catena of decisions of this Court, it is now well-settled that by an
executive order the statutory rules cannot be whittled down nor can any
retrospective effect be given to such executive order so as to destroy any
right which become crystallized."
Similar preposition were laid down by the Apex Court in 1994 (1) SCC 437
Govind Prasad Vs. R.G. Parsad. The petitioners have also placed reliance on
judgement of Apex Court in (2004) 1 SCC 139 State of Orissa and others Vs.
Mangalam Timber Products Ltd. In the said case respondents had established an
industry. The respondents consumed the raw material, subsequently the State
Government proposed to make a revision with retrospective effect the price of
raw material which decision was challenged and struck down by the Apex Court.
The Apex Court has affirmed the judgement of High Court and laid down
following in paragraph no. 4 : -
"4. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we are satisfied that no
case is made out for interference with the judgment of the High Court. Before
the High Court, the principal plea of the respondent was that there was no
contract in writing and therefore the applicability of the principle of
promissory estoppel was not established. The High Court has rightly discarded
this plea. To attract the applicability of the principle of estoppel it is not
necessary that there must be a contract in writing entered into between the
parties. We are not satisfied even prima facie that it was a case of an error
committed by the State Government of which it was not aware. The State of
Orissa should have, while holding out the representation, taken into
consideration the fact-who will have to do replantation and that the
permission of the Government of India would be needed for the purpose. The
State cannot take advantage of its own omission. The State Government having
persuaded the respondent to establish an industry and respondent having acted
on the solemn promise of the State Government, purchased the raw material at a
fixed price and also sold its products by pricing the same taking into
consideration the price of raw material fixed by the State Government and
supplied; the State Government cannot be permitted to revise the terms for
supply of raw material adversely to the interest of the respondent and
effective from a back date and place the respondent in a situation which it
will not be able to resolve. The respondent could not have revised their price
from a back date and recovered it from innumerable consumers to whom their
finished products were supplied at a fixed price."
The above case was on its own facts and does not help the petitioners in this
case.
The judgement of Apex Court in (2006) 3 SCC 620 Mahabir Vegetable Oils (P)
Ltd. Vs. State of Haryana and others was a case where the Apex Court laid down
that what is granted by the State can also be withdrawn by the Government
except in cases were the principles of promissory estoppel applies. It is
useful to quote paragraphs 35 and 36 :-
35\. The said decision itself is an authority for the proposition that what is
granted can be withdrawn by the Government except in the case where the
doctrine of promissory estoppel applies. The said decision is also an
authority for the proposition that the promissory estoppel operates on equity
and public interest.
36\. In Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. v. CTO it was stated : (SCC p. 637, para 19)
"19. In order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear, sound and
positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking
the doctrine and bald expressions without any supporting material to the
effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine
has altered its position relying on the assurance of the Government would not
be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine. The courts are bound to consider
all aspects including the results sought to be achieved and the public good at
large, because while considering the applicability of the doctrine, the courts
have to do equity and the fundamental principles of equity must for ever be
present in the mind of the court."
The judgement of Apex Court in (2006) 8 SCC 702 MRF LTD, Kottayam Vs. Asstt.
Commissioner (Assessment) Sales Tax and Others) have been cited, referring to
the earlier judgement of the Apex Court, following was observed in paragraphs
33, 34, 35, 36 :-
"33. In a recent judgment in the case of Mahabir Vegetable Oils (P) Ltd. Vs.
State of Haryana, 2006 (3) SCC 620, this Court in para 25 observed that "it is
beyond any cavil that the doctrine of promissory estoppel operates even in the
legislative field." This was in connection with a statutory notification under
the Haryana General sales Tax Act.
34\. In Kasinka Trading's case (supra) and Rom Industries Vs. State of Jammu &
Kashmir, 2005 (7) SCC 348, on which reliance has been placed by the learned
counsel for the respondent do not disturb the settled position in law that
where a right has already accrued, for instance, the right to exemption of tax
for a fixed period and the conditions for that exemption have been fulfilled,
then the withdrawal of the exemption during that fixed period cannot effect
the already accrued right. Of course, overriding public interest would prevail
over a plea based on promissory estoppel, but in the present case there is not
even a whisper of any overriding public interest or equity. Notification SRO
38/98 was an amendment and not a clarification of SRO 1729/93 and was
expressly made prospective w.e.f. 15.1.1998.
35\. Besides, a plea of promissory estoppel is in the nature of an equitable
plea and must be determined in the facts and circumstances of each case where
it is raised. In the case of Rom Industries (supra) the deciding factor was
that the exemption notification in question had been itself held to be
unconstitutional in an earlier case as violative of Articles 301 and 304 of
the Constitution of India and, therefore, could not form the basis of any
right. The observation made in para 8 of that judgment have to be read in that
context. Besides, the State Government in that case had no option except to
withdraw the notification. It is so observed in that judgment in para 9:
"The State Government, in view of the decision of this Court had no other
option but to place edible oils in the Negative List. The questions whether
Shree Mahavir Oil Mills, 1996 (11) SCC 39 has been rightly decided or not and
whether it is in conflict with the principles enunciated in Video Electronics,
1990 (3) SCC 87, are moot. But while the decision stands, the State Government
is bound to comply with it."
36\. In Kasinka Tading 's case (supra), the notification in question was a
customs exemption Notification for a fixed period. The judgments in Pournami
Oils Mills's case (supra) and Shri Bakul Oil Industries's case (supra) were
distinguished in the said case on the ground that the notifications in those
cases were incentive notifications. It was observed in para 27:
" Again in Bakul Oil Industries (supra) it was the incentive to set up
industries in a conforming area that the exemption had been granted and the
Court held that the Government could withdraw an exemption granted by it
earlier only if such withdrawal could be made without offending the rule of
promissory estoppel and without depriving an industry entitled to claim
exemption for the entire specified period for which exemption had been
promised to it at the time of giving incentive. Both these cases therefore
cannot advance the case of the appellant and are distinguishable on facts
because the exemption notification under Section 25 of the Act which was
issued in this case did not hold out any incentive for setting up of any
industry to use PVC resins and on the other hand had been issued in exercise
of the statutory powers, in public interest and subsequently withdrawn in
exercise of the same powers again in public interest. In our opinion, no
justifiable prejudice was caused to the appellants in the absence of any
unequivocal promise by the Government not to act and review its policy even if
the necessity warranted and the "public interest" so demanded. Thus, in the
facts and circumstances of these cases, the appellants cannot invoke the
doctrine of promissory estoppel to question the withdrawal notification issued
under Section 25 of the and Act."
Having noted the preposition of law as laid down by the Apex Court in various
judgements, now we have to apply the said preposition on the facts of the
present case. Whether the State due to principles of promissory estoppel is
estopped from changing its policy which were earlier issued on 2nd June, 1998
and whether any vested right has been accrued to the petitioners under the
Government Order dated 2nd June, 1998 which could not have been taken away by
subsequent Government Order dated 22.10.2002? As noted above, the Government
is free to frame its policy and change the same from time to time. Even policy
which was issued on 2nd June, 1998 on the issue of regularisation of land in
the land acquisition proceedings was issued changing the earlier Government
Orders dated 9.4.1980 and 25.4.1984 as noted above. The Government is the best
judge to review its policy from time to time so that it may best serve the
society and advance the public interest. The Government, thus, was not
estopped from changing its policy of regularisation of land and the
substantial change brought by Government Order dated 22.10.2002 was well
within the domain of the State Government.
The Submission that petitioners have acquired a vested right by Government
Order dated 2nd June, 1998 to get their land regularised which was acquired
prior to notification under Section 4 needs to be answered now.
We have already noted that under the Government Order dated 22.10.2002, there
is no automatic regularisation of land of a housing society. The scheme was
notified under Section 32. The scheme under Section 32 was notified only on
19th October, 2002, thus, acquisition of the land of cooperative societies was
declared on 19.10.2002. The Government Order was issued on 22.10.2002 i.e.
within three days. There is no automatic absorption / regularisation of land
of housing society under Government Orders issued from time to time. Various
conditions as laid down in different Government Orders have to be fulfilled
before regularising the land in the scheme. The regularisation / absorption of
the land has to be done by the concerned development authorities or the U.P.
Awas Evam Vikas Parishad, on fulfilment of the conditions of the Government
Order. Thus, it cannot be said that by mere issuance of the Government Order
dated 2nd June, 1998 any right was vested in the petitioner. There is no case
that under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998 any regularisation of land of
petitioner was done which is sought to be taken away by Government Order dated
22.10.2002. After issuance of the Government Order dated 22.10.2002 notice was
issued to the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 on 27th October,
2003 and the process for consideration of the claim for regularisation had
started.
Thus, we conclude that there is no vested right accrued to the petitioner
under the Government Order dated 2nd June, 1998. The executive order cannot be
given retrospective effect is the submission which have been made by the
learned counsel for the petitioner. There is no dispute to the preposition
that the executive order cannot be given any retrospective effect nor any
vested right can be taken away by an executive order by the State Government.
The Government Order dated 22.10.2002 is prospective in nature and applies for
the claim of regularisation / absorption which were to be under taken after
22.10.2002, any transaction which was already completed prior to issuance of
government order dated 22.10.2002 was not effected nor was annulled.
In taking above view, we are fully supported by the Full Bench Judgement of
this Court in the case of Anand Kumar Sharma Vs. State of U.P. and others 2014
(2) ADJ 742 (in which one of us Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan was also a member).
Before the Full Bench, two questions were referred which have been noted in
the judgement which were to the following effect :
"1. Whether the application of the petitioner dated 25.7.2005 submitted for
grant of freehold right on the basis of the Government Order dated 1.12.1998
(Paragraph 7) and the Government Order dated 10.12.2002 (paragraph 5) was
entitled to be considered in accordance with the Government policy as was in
existence on the date of application or the Government policy as amended by
Government Order dated 4.8.2006, was to be taken into consideration while
deciding the application on 18.12.2006?
2\. Whether the Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta Vs. State of U.P.
2009 (4) AWC 4038 lays down the correct law?"
After considering the submission of the parties and noticing the relevant
judgements on the subject, the Full Bench answered the aforesaid questions and
held that the consideration shall be made in accordance with the subsequent
Government Order. In the said case, the Full Bench had occasion to consider
the concept of vested right. The Full Bench also laid down that policy
decision can be changed by the State Government from time to time. Full Bench
answered the questions in paragraphs 46 of the judgement which is quoted below
:
"In view of the foregoing discussions, our answer to the abovenoted two
questions are:
(1)The application of the petitioner dated 25/7/2005 submitted for grant of
free hold right on the basis of the Government Orders dated 01/12/1998 and
10/12/2002 was entitled to be considered in accordance with the government's
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
not entitled for any relief in these writ petitions. All the writ petitions
are dismissed.
Parties shall bear their own costs.
Order Date :- 30.5.2014 Manoj
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ankur Enclave Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' President
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,A.S. Rana
                                  With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43162 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Gangotri Sahakari Awas Samtii Ltd. Thru' Its Secry.
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas And Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,G.K. Verma
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
    Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J.
Hon'ble Suneet Kumar,J.
(Delivered by Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J) These four writ petitions filed by
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies raising common questions of facts and
law have been heard together and are being decided by this common judgement.
Counter and rejoinder affidavits have been exchanged in all the writ
petitions, with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, we proceed
to decide all the writ petitions finally.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Vs.
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ankur Enclave Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' President
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,A.S. Rana
                                  With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43162 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Gangotri Sahakari Awas Samtii Ltd. Thru' Its Secry.
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas And Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,G.K. Verma
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
    Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J.
Hon'ble Suneet Kumar,J.
(Delivered by Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J) These four writ petitions filed by
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies raising common questions of facts and
law have been heard together and are being decided by this common judgement.
Counter and rejoinder affidavits have been exchanged in all the writ
petitions, with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, we proceed
to decide all the writ petitions finally.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Vs.
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ankur Enclave Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' President
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,A.S. Rana
                                  With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43162 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Gangotri Sahakari Awas Samtii Ltd. Thru' Its Secry.
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas And Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,G.K. Verma
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
    Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J.
Hon'ble Suneet Kumar,J.
(Delivered by Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J) These four writ petitions filed by
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies raising common questions of facts and
law have been heard together and are being decided by this common judgement.
Counter and rejoinder affidavits have been exchanged in all the writ
petitions, with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, we proceed
to decide all the writ petitions finally.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Vs.
State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is being treated as
leading writ petition. It is sufficient to note the facts and pleadings in
Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 to decide all the writ petitions.
The petitioner, in Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas
Samiti Ltd. Vs. State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is a
registered Housing Cooperative Society within the meaning of U.P. Cooperative
Societies Act, 1965. The society by various sale-deeds purchased the land from
owners in village Kaila and Mitthapur. The sale-deeds were obtained on
different dates from 20th December, 1998 to 28th March, 2000. The Society
purchased the land to provide the residential accommodation to its members
after development. The State Government from time to time had taken various
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 48640 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Ankur Enclave Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Thru' President
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,Anoop Trivedi
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,A.S. Rana
                                  With 
    Case :- WRIT - C No. - 43162 of 2007
    Petitioner :- Gangotri Sahakari Awas Samtii Ltd. Thru' Its Secry.
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas And Others
    Counsel for Petitioner :- S.S. Shukla,G.K. Verma
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,A.P.Srivastava,Vivek Saran
    Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J.
Hon'ble Suneet Kumar,J.
(Delivered by Hon'ble Ashok Bhushan,J) These four writ petitions filed by
Registered Housing Cooperative Societies raising common questions of facts and
law have been heard together and are being decided by this common judgement.
Counter and rejoinder affidavits have been exchanged in all the writ
petitions, with the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, we proceed
to decide all the writ petitions finally.
The Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas Samiti Ltd. Vs.
State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is being treated as
leading writ petition. It is sufficient to note the facts and pleadings in
Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 to decide all the writ petitions.
The petitioner, in Writ Petition No. 48641 of 2007 (Ashyana Sahkari Awas
Samiti Ltd. Vs. State Of U.P. Thru' Principal Awas Vikas U.P. & Others) is a
registered Housing Cooperative Society within the meaning of U.P. Cooperative
Societies Act, 1965. The society by various sale-deeds purchased the land from
owners in village Kaila and Mitthapur. The sale-deeds were obtained on
different dates from 20th December, 1998 to 28th March, 2000. The Society
purchased the land to provide the residential accommodation to its members
after development. The State Government from time to time had taken various
policy as was in existence at the time of passing of the order. The Government
Order dated 04/8/2006 was rightly relied on by the Collector while rejecting
the application on 18/12/2006.
(2)The Division Bench judgment in Dr. O.P. Gupta's case (supra) does not lay
down the correct law insofar as it holds that the application for grant of
freehold right is to be considered as per the government policy as was in
existence on the date of making application for grant of freehold right."
In view of the foregoing discussion, we thus, conclude that doctrine of
promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, the State was fully
entitled to change its policy from time to time and the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 was well within the power of the State Government. The petitioners
had not acquired any vested right under the Government Order dated 2.6.1998
nor the present case is a case of taking away any vested right of the
petitioners. We do not find any infirmity in the Government Order dated
22.10.2002 and the decision of Housing Commissioner dated 16.9.2006 which may
warrant any interference in exercise of writ jurisdiction. The petitioners are
