Madras High Court
Vairavikulam Lime Products ... vs Government Of India, Ministry Of ... on 19
June, 2006
Equivalent citations: AIR 2006 Mad 353, 2006 (3) CTC 609, 2007 (3) JCR 143
Mad, (2006) 3 MLJ 317
Author: M Karpagavinayagam
Bench: M Karpagavinayagam, A Ramalingam, V Dhanapalan
ORDER M. Karpagavinayagam, J.
1\. The common question that arises for consideration in these batch of Writ
Petitions, which has been referred to this Full Bench, is as follows:
Whether the order of the Government of Pondicherry, in G.O.Rt. No. 30,
Industries, dated 28.05.1997, withdrawing its earlier order in G.O.Rt. No. 9
of 1991, Industries, dated 11.02.1991, granting Subsidy Incentive Scheme to
the industrial units for five years, even before the expiry of the said
period, is valid or not ?
2\. The short facts, leading to the reference of the matter to this Full
Bench, are as follows:
(i) Writ petitioners are industries, situated in Karaikal and Mahe regions of
the Union Territory of Pondicherry.
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
industries within the Union Territory of Pondicherry, promising certain
incentives and various concessions.
(iii) On 11.02.1991, the Government of Pondicherry issued an order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, providing for a fresh scheme of electricity subsidy tariff to
all industries, which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 in Karaikal and
Mahe regions, in the nature of incentives, offered to encourage setting up of
industries, for a period of five years.
(iv) The petitioners sought to act upon the above incentive scheme and set up
industries in the backward regions of Karaikal and Mahe regions of Pondicherry
and commenced their production, after investing huge sums, on the assumption
that they would be given the benefit of the above scheme for the full term of
five years.
(v) However, by a subsequent order in G.O.Rt. No. 30, Industries, dated
28.05.1997, the Subsidy Incentive Scheme was withdrawn by the Government of
Pondicherry, even before the expiry of five year period.
(vi) Based on the above order, the Government of Pondicherry discontinued the
tariff concession, given to the petitioners.
(vii) It is, under those circumstances, Writ Petitions were filed by the
petitioners in the year 1999, challenging the same.
(viii) A learned single Judge of this Court disposed of the said Writ
Petitions on 12.07.2000, directing the petitioners to approach the Government
of Pondicherry and make a representation which would be disposed of by the
Government within a stipulated period.
(ix) Accordingly, the petitioners made representations to the Government,
contending that they had acted on the basis of tariff concession in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991 and altered their position and requesting the Government to
extend the benefits for the remaining period. However, the Government of
Pondicherry rejected the said representations, by an order dated 05.10.2000.
Thereupon, the petitioners have filed these batch of Writ Petitions, seeking
to quash the orders passed by the Government, by holding that the withdrawal
of tariff concession is invalid in law and consequently to direct the
Government of Pondicherry to extend the tariff concession for the full period
of five years.
(x) In the meantime, one of the industries by name M/s. Isas Thermo Alloys,
instead of approaching the Government by making a representation, straightaway
filed a writ petition in W.P. No. 8010 of 1999, immediately after passing of
the withdrawal order, dated 28.05.1997.
(xi) The said Writ Petition was dismissed by the learned single Judge, mainly
on the ground that the writ petitioner had not set up the unit and no
production was commenced and, therefore, he was not entitled to tariff
concession.
(xii) Challenging the said order, the above industry, namely, M/s. Isas Thermo
Alloys filed W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 and the same was dismissed by the First
Bench on 14.01.2000, holding that the said order of withdrawal by Pondicherry
Government is valid.
(xiii) Thereupon, these batch of writ petitions, filed by the persons who
failed before the Government of Pondicherry, came up for hearing before the
learned single Judge, Justice K.P. Sivasubramaniam, as he then was.
(xiv) At that time, it was brought to the notice of the learned single Judge
that already the issue in question had been decided by the First Bench in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, by the order dated 14.01.2000. The learned single Judge,
finding that the First Bench, in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999, did not take into
consideration the Supreme Court decision in Pawan Alloys case, , thought it
fit to refer the matter to a Larger Bench, as the Pawan Alloys case would
squarely apply to the facts of the present case and, as such, the decision
taken by the First Bench in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 requires reconsideration.
(xv) That is how all these matters have been placed before this Full Bench, by
the orders of the Hon'ble Chief Justice.
3\. Mr. R. Muthukumarasamy, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the
petitioners, would make the following submissions, by way of challenge to the
Government Order, dated 28.05.1997, withdrawing tariff concession:
(a) The Government Order in G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated 11.02.1991, providing
tariff concession for five years by the Government of Pondicherry is in the
nature of representation/promise, assuring industries, which get energised on
or after 01.03.1991, to be extended the tariff concession. The petitioners had
acted on the said representation, set up industries and commenced production
after spending huge amounts and, thus, altered their position. Therefore, the
Government of Pondicherry is bound by the principle of promissory estoppel, to
extend the said benefits for the entire period, as assured, as held in Pawan
Alloys case. Hence, the order, withdrawing concession before the expiry of the
period, would amount to breach of promise.
(b) Even though the Government of Pondicherry had a right to withdraw the
scheme with effect from the date of the order, namely, 28.05.1997, the said
order would be only a prospective effect, but, it cannot have a retrospective
effect, so as to affect the rights of the petitioners, which had been accrued
to the petitioners, namely, to avail tariff concession, assured by the earlier
order, for the full period and the impugned order would apply only to
industries, which are set up subsequent to the Government Order dated
28.05.1997 and not to the industries, which are set up and have commenced
production earlier.
(c) Though it is the stand of the Government that the Government Order dated
28.05.1997 was issued in public interest, no materials have been placed by the
Government to show that there is an overriding public interest, which would
render inequitable for the Government to hold on to the promise.
(d) The order passed by the First Bench in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999, dated
14.01.2000, has not been correctly decided, as it has not followed the Pawan
Alloys case, decided by the Supreme Court, which would squarely apply to the
present case, as pointed out by the learned single Judge, who referred this
matter for consideration by a Larger Bench.
4\. In support of his submissions, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners
would cite the following decisions:
(i) Kasinka Trading and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr.;
(ii) 1995 Sales Tax Case Sulochana Cotton Mills v. State of Tamil Nadu
(iii) Shrijee Sales Corporation and Anr. v. Union of India;
(iv) Pawan Alloys & Casting Pvt. Ltd., Meerut, v. U.P. State Electricity Board
and Ors. ;
(v) Sales Tax Officer v. Shree Durga Oil Mills;
(vi) State of Rajasthan v. Mahaveer Oil Industries And Ors.;
(vii) Sharma Transport v. Government of A.P. and Ors.; and
(viii) Hitech Electrothermics & Hydropower Ltd. v. State of Kerala and Ors.
5\. In reply to the above points, the following submissions have been made by
Mr. K.K. Sasidharan, Additional Government Pleader, Pondicherry, and Mr. T.S.
Sivagnanam, Senior Central Government Standing Counsel:
(a) The G.O. impugned, dated 28.05.1997, contains various reasons, showing the
existence of public interest. In the absence of any challenge to those reasons
in the G.O. impugned and in the absence of any statement or materials placed
by the petitioners to show that there is no public interest involved, it
cannot be said that the decision rendered by the First Bench of this Court in
W.A. No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, is wrong, since it was based upon two
judgments of the Supreme Court in Kasinka Trading v. Union of India and
Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India .
(b) The Pawan Alloys case considered the facts of that case and found that
there was no public interest involved. Those facts would not apply to the
facts of the present case. In Pawan Alloys case, there is total absence of any
involvement of public interest and, in the case on hand, there is full and
complete basis of public interest, which prompted withdrawal. The Government,
issuing G.O., is also an authority to recall the G.O. It is settled law that
the authority, which is empowered to grant something, is also having power to
cancel the same. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act contemplates such an
authority.
(c) The judgment rendered by the First Bench dated 14.01.2000, negativing the
doctrine of promissory estoppel, holding that there was sufficient public
interest, which weighed the Government in withdrawing power subsidy, is
perfectly correct and it does not require reconsideration.
6\. To substantiate the above pleas, learned Counsel for the respondents would
cite the following authorities:
(i) Excise Commissioner v. Ramkumar ;
(ii) Bishambh Dayal Chandramohan v. State of U.P.;
(iii) Kasinka Trading v. Union of India ;
(iv) P.T.R. Exports Madras (P) Ltd. v. Union of India ;
(v) DCM Limited v. Union of India) ;
(vi) Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India ;
(vii) Pawan Alloys and Castings v. U.P. State Electricity Board ;
(viii) Sales Tax Officer v. Sri Durga Oil Mills ;
(ix) State of Rajasthan v. Mahaveer Oil Industries ;
(x) Union of India v. Indian Charge Chrome ;
(xi) Unreported Judgment of Madras High Court In W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 (DB)
(Isas Thermo Alloys v. Secretary To Government of Pondicherry) ;
(xii) Sharma Transport v. Government of A.P. ;
(xiii) 2002 (128) STC 554 (DB) Dharani Sugar and Chemicals Ltd. v. Commercial
Tax Officer.
(xiv) Onkarlal Bajaj v. Union of India ;
(xv) Union of India v. International Trading Company;
(xvi) Hira Tikoo v. Union Territory of Chandiragh and Anr.;
(xvii) Bannari Amman Sugar Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer ;
(xviii) 2005 (7) Supreme Court Cases 348 Room Industries Ltd. v. State of
Jammu & Kashmir ;
(xix) Bangalore Development Authority v. Hanumaiah ;
(xx) 2005 (6) SCALE 613 Brijpal Sharma v. Gaziabad Development Authority; and
(xxi) 2006 (3) SCALE 178 Mahabir Vegetable Oils Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Haryana.
7\. We have heard the learned Counsel for the parties at length and given our
meticulous consideration to the rival contentions, made on either side.
8\. As pointed out by the counsel for the parties, it shall be remembered at
the outset, that while dealing with the very same question relating to the
validity of the order of withdrawal of subsidy scheme by the Government of
Pondicherry in G.O.Rt. No. 30 of 1997, Industries, dated 28.05.1997, the First
Bench, by the order dated 14.01.2000 in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999, upheld the said
G.O., as valid.
9\. According to Mr. Sasidharan, learned Additional Government Pleader,
appearing for the respondents, namely, the Government of Pondicherry, the said
order of the First Bench in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 was on the strength of the
ratio decided by the Supreme Court in two cases in (i) Kasinka Trading v.
Union of India and (ii) Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India and, as
such, the order of the First Bench, upholding the G.O. impugned, is justified.
10\. According to Mr. Muthukumarasamy, learned Senior Counsel for the
petitioners, the above two cases are distinguishable on facts. As a matter of
fact, the Pawan Alloys case would squarely apply to the facts of the present
case and the said case has dealt with the above two cases, distinguishing the
same. But, the First Bench had no occasion to go through the Pawan Alloys
case, which decided the very same issue, as it was not brought to the notice
of the Division Bench at the time of final disposal and, as such, the
conclusion arrived at by the First Bench, without following the Pawan Alloys
case, is not correct and, therefore, it requires reconsideration.
11\. In the light of the above rival contentions, it would be better, at this
stage, to refer to the reasonings given in the order of the First Bench, for
upholding the G.O. impugned. The said reasonings are as follows:
(i) The issue pertains to the claim for tariff concession under power subsidy
scheme, which was introduced as a matter of policy and then later withdrawn by
the Government, pursuant to its policy and the reasons contained in the order
impugned. As regards the withdrawal of the scheme, it is not for this Court to
adjudicate upon the reasons or the policy, behind the withdrawal of the
scheme.
(ii) In Sales Tax Officer v. Sri Durga Oil Mills , the Supreme Court held that
withdrawal of tax exemption contrary to the industrial policy announced for a
particular period cannot be questioned on the ground of plea of estoppel. In
State of Rajasthan, v. Mahaveer Oil Industries , it was held that the doctrine
of promissory estoppel could not preclude the Government from issuing such
notification for withdrawal of tax exemption scheme, even during the currency
of the exemption scheme. In the background of the rulings of the Supreme
Court, if we see the order impugned, withdrawing the scheme, it is clear that
it provides reasons for withdrawal in public interest.
(iii) The main reason given for withdrawal of notification was that the
Government considered the analysis of the power subsidy scheme, which revealed
many inadequacies and shortcomings. Annually, the Union Territory was spending
about Rs.5.00 crores on payment of power subsidy, which resulted in
significant drain on the resources of the Union Territory and also, from the
inception, the scheme helped only large/medium power intensive units.
12\. The above reasonings would clearly indicate that the point urged on
behalf of the counsel for the respondent State, regarding public interest, was
accepted by the First Bench and it was not inclined to go into the merits of
the rival contentions on the factual aspects, in the light of the judgments of
the Supreme Court, holding that withdrawal of the subsidy cannot be questioned
in view of public interest.
13\. Admittedly, Pawan Alloys case, which dealt with all the cases, including
the judgments referred in the judgment of the First Bench, has not been taken
into consideration by the First Bench.
14\. Now, Mr. Muhukumarasamy, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners,
would submit that Pawan Alloys case is exactly on the point whereas the other
decisions referred in the judgment of the First Bench and cited by the learned
Counsel for the respondents, would decide about some other aspects, on the
basis of different factual situations.
15\. At this juncture, it has to be noticed that the judgment of the First
Bench was rendered by Justice K.P. Sivasubramaniam, on behalf of the Bench.
Now, it is noticed that the very same Judge, namely, Justice K.P.
Sivasubramaniam, while sitting as a single Judge, before whom the batch of
Writ Petitions were posted for final disposal, felt a doubt about the
correctness of his own judgment, rendered on behalf of the First Bench, and
thought it fit to refer the matter to a Larger Bench, to decide the case, in
the light of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Pawan Alloys
case, by his order dated 29.10.2004. In this context, the gist of the
observation of Justice K.P. Sivasubramaniam, learned single Judge, while
referring the matter to a Larger Bench, would be quite relevant, which is as
follows:
Learned Government Pleader contends that with reference to the very same
impugned Government Order and the subsidy scheme, a Division Bench of this
Court, in Izas Thermo Alloys v. Secretary To Government and Ors. (W.A. No.
2081 of 1999 - Judgment dated 14.01.2000), has held that the withdrawal of
subsidy scheme was on proper grounds of public interest and hence, industries
cannot claim any vested interest by application of principle of promissory
estoppel.
However, the learned Senior Counsel on behalf of the petitioners, contends
that in all the judgments relied on by the Government Pleader, the Courts have
also taken note of the facts relating to the petitioners in those cases and
had held that on the facts of those cases, they will not be entitled to plead
promissory estoppel, as those industries had commenced production only after
the order of withdrawal and having regard to the observations contained in
PAWAN ALLOYS case, the petitioner is entitled to invoke the principles of
promissory estoppel.
I find much force in the said contention of the learned Senior Counsel for the
petitioner that the case of the appellant in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 is
distinguishable on the facts though the judgment deals with the very same
scheme. However, I feel that, on the legal issue, the Division Bench has
specifically held in paragraph 12 of the judgment that even during the
currency of the scheme, the Government can withdraw the exemption scheme. The
said observation has been made generally without going into the question in
depth. The attention of the Division Bench was not drawn to the judgment of
the Supreme Court in PAWAN ALLOYS case.
But, how far the observations of the Supreme Court in PAWAN ALLOYS case will
have any relevance in the light of subsequent judgments of the Supreme Court
or would have made any difference to the ultimate conclusions of the Division
Bench in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999 and whether on the facts of the case of the
petitioners in these writ petitions, whether they would be entitled to succeed
on the factual situation that they had been energised and commenced production
even before the scheme was withdrawn, are all matters which could be decided
by a Larger Bench. While on the very impugned proceedings and scheme, a
Division Bench had upheld the withdrawal of the scheme, it may not be proper
for a single Judge to express differently.
So observing, the matter has been referred to a Larger Bench.
16\. The above observation of the learned single Judge Justice K.P.
Sivasubramaniam would clearly indicate his view that the judgment rendered by
the First Bench is not correct, as it had not taken into consideration the
Pawan Alloys case, , and if the First Bench had taken into consideration the
said case, it would have taken a different view. In this context, it is to be
reiterated that Justice K.P. Sivasubramaniam was the judge, who rendered the
judgment on behalf of the First Bench, upholding the G.O., on the strength of
the judgments of the Supreme Court, and the very same Judge, now, as a single
Judge, while taking a different view, on the strength of Pawan Alloys case of
the Supreme Court, has thought it fit to refer the matter to a Larger Bench.
17\. Before this Full Bench, it is vehemently contended in support of the
First Bench decision by Mr. Sasidharan, learned Additional Government Pleader
for the respondents, namely, the Government of Pondicherry, that the
concession for grant of electricity is a matter of policy of the Government
and that it is open to the Government to withdraw the subsidy scheme on the
ground of public interest, affecting the existing beneficiaries, and that the
beneficiaries cannot plead promissory estoppel.
18\. The learned Additional Government Pleader would further contend that
Pawan Alloys case was decided by the Supreme Court in its factual situation,
applying the law declared by the Supreme Court in the case of Shrijee Sales
Corporation and the facts in the present case are neither similar nor
identical to that of Pawan Alloys case. Therefore, Pawan Alloys case would not
help the petitioners at all, to substantiate their plea and, as such, the said
case cannot be relied upon, to decide the issue in question.
19\. Arguing contra, Mr. Muthukumarasamy, learned Senior Counsel for the
petitioners, would submit that the learned single Judge has now taken a
correct view and, as such, the decision of the First Bench requires
reconsideration, in the light of Pawan Alloys case.
20\. Before going into the facts of Pawan Alloys case, let us now refer to
various decisions, cited by both the counsel, laying down the principles,
relating to promissory estoppel:
(i) Pawan Alloys & Casting Pvt. Ltd., Meerut, v. U.P. State Electricity Board
and Ors.:
If a statutory authority functioning on behalf of the State in exercise of its
legally permissible powers has held out any promise to a party, who relying on
the same, has changed its position not necessarily to its detriment, and if
this promise does not offend any provision of law or does not fetter any
legislative power inhering in the promisor, then on the principle of
promissory estoppel, the promisor can be pinned down to the promise offered by
it by way of representation containing such promise for the benefit of the
promisee.
(ii) Amrit Banaspati CO. Ltd. v. State of Punjab:
The law of promissory estoppel furnishes a cause of action to a citizen,
enforceable in a court of law, against the Government, if it extends any
promise which creates legal relationship and it is acted upon by the promisee
irrespective of any prejudice.... Acting on the assurance, both express and
implied, the appellant invested substantial amount in setting up the unit
requesting, in the meanwhile, for grant of written sanction from the
Government, which too, came. The equity arose in favour of the appellant by
having altered its position on the assurance given by the authorities. Thus,
basic ingredients of promise by the Government, by which the position was
altered by investing substantial amount, were established to invoke promissory
estoppel against the Government.... Exemption from tax to encourage
industrialisation should not be confused with refund of tax. They are two
different legal and distinct concepts. Tax holiday or concession to new
industries is well known to be one of the methods to grant incentive to
encourage industrialisation.... The incentive to new industries by way of tax
holiday or tax exemption could validly form the subject matter of promissory
estoppel. This would not be against public policy. Insofar as any
representation seeks to enable the promisee to get refund of the collected
sales tax, it would remain unconstitutional. Therefore, it would be contrary
to public policy. But on the promise for exemption from tax and relying upon
the promise, the units had altered their position irretrievably. They have
spent large amounts of money for establishing the infrastructure. Therefore,
they had necessarily altered their position, relying on the representation,
thinking that they would be assured of at least three years' period.... On
these well established facts, the Board can certainly be pinned down to its
promise, on the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(iii) Kasinka Trading v. Union of India:
The doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be pressed into service, to compel
the Government or the public authority, to carry out a representation or
promise, which is contrary to law or which is outside the authority or power
of the officer of the Government or of the public authority to make.... The
Courts have to do equity. The fundamental principles of equity must for ever
be present to the mind of the Court, while considering the applicability of
the doctrine. The doctrine must yield when the equity so demands.
(iv) 2002 (2) Supreme Court 188 Sharma Transport v. Government of A.P.:
The doctrine of promissory estoppel would apply to the Government also. Every
one is subject to the law as fully and completely as any other and the
Government is no exception. The Government cannot claim immunity from the
doctrine of promissory estoppel. The doctrine of promissory estoppel would be
displaced in such a case, because on the facts, equity would not require that
the Government should be held bound by the promise made by it. But the
Government must be able to show that in view of the fact as has been
transpired, public interest would not be prejudiced. In order to resist its
liability, the Government would disclose to the Court the various events
insisting its claim to be exempt from liability and it would be for the Court
to decide whether those events are such as to render it equitable and to
enforce the liability against the Government.
It is equally settled law that promissory estoppel cannot be used, compelling
the Government to carry out a promise which is prohibited by law or which is
devoid of the authority or power of the Government.
(v) D.C.M. Ltd. v. Union of India:
It is well settled that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a
principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice. The basis of this doctrine is
the inter-position of equity, stepped in to mitigate the rigour of strict law.
(vi) Bangalore Development Authority v. R. Hanumaiah:
The doctrine of promissory estoppel is not based on the principle of estoppel.
It is a doctrine evolved by equity in order to prevent injustice. Where a
party by his word or conduct makes a promise to another person in unequivocal
and clear terms intending to create legal relations knowing or intending that
it would be acted upon by the party to whom the promise is made and it is so
acted upon by the other party the promise would be binding on the party making
it. It would not be entitled to go back on the promise made.... The principle
of promissory estoppel would be applicable to the Government as well where it
makes a promise knowing or intending that it would be acted upon by the
promisee, and the promisee in fact acting on the promise alters his position,
then the Government will be held bound by the promise and such a promise would
be enforceable against the Government, at the instance of the promisee. The
Government stood on the same footing as a private individual, so far as the
obligation of law is concerned.
21\. From the above decisions, the following guidelines would emerge, with
regard to promissory estoppel:
(1) If a statutory authority functioning on behalf of the State, in exercise
of its legally permissible powers has held out any promise to a party, who
relying on the same, has changed its position, then, on the principle of
promissory estoppel, the promisor can be pinned down to the promise offered by
it, by way of representation, containing such promise for the benefit of the
promisee.
(2) The doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be pressed into service, to
compel the Government, to carry out a representation or promise, which is
contrary to law or which is outside the authority.
(3) The doctrine of promissory estoppel would apply to the Government also.
The Government cannot claim immunity from the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(4) The principle of promissory estoppel would be applicable to the Government
as well, where it makes a promise knowing or intending that it would be acted
upon by the promisee, and the promisee in fact acting on the promise alters
his position, then the Government will be held bound by the promise and such a
promise would be enforceable against the Government, at the instance of the
promisee.
22\. In the light of the above guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in
the judgments cited supra, let us now go into the facts and the finding
rendered in Pawan Alloys case. It is a case where the appeals were filed by
the appellants, who are consumers of electricity supplied by the respondent,
U.P. State Electricity Board, with the grievance that the notifications,
providing rebate on the charge of electricity, as an incentive to start new
industries for a period of three years, had been withdrawn premature.
According to the appellants, three notifications were issued by the respondent
Board, in exercise of its powers under Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply)
Act,1948, holding out a promise to new industries, seeking to establish
industries in different parts of U.P. that on the charges of electricity
consumption by them, they will be given a rebate of 10% for a period of three
years from the date of commencement of supply of electricity to them for the
first time. Later, on 31.07.1986, that is even before the expiry of three
years, the respondents prematurely had withdrawn the concession of the said
rebate. The said notification was impugned in the proceedings. The main
question before the High Court, which was raised in those proceedings, was as
follows:
Whether the Board is estopped from withdrawing the said rebate before the
completion of three year period, by virtue of the doctrine of promissory
estoppel ?
22.1. The High Court ultimately came to the conclusion that the respondent
Board was estopped by virtue of doctrine of promissory estoppel from
withdrawing the rebate before the completion of the period of three years.
22.2. The matter was taken to the Supreme Court by the Board. Before the
Supreme Court, the decisions in Kasinka Trading v. Union of India and Shrijee
Sales Corporation v. Union of India were cited by the Board, to show that it
was open to the respondent Board to withdraw the concession or rebate even
before the expiry of the period, on the ground of public policy and the
doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be pressed into service for imparting
such an exercise by the Board.
22.3. While rejecting the said contention, the Supreme Court distinguished the
above two decisions and held in Pawan Alloys case, that the Board was
estopped, by virtue of the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The following is
the observation:
In the case of Kasinka Trading , Dr. A.S. Anand, J. had to consider the
question whether a notification granting complete exemption from payment of
customs duty, which was issued in public interest, up to 31.03.1981, could be
withdrawn before the expiry of said period by a fresh notification.
The Supreme Court, speaking through Dr. Anand, J., took the view that as the
said notification was issued in public interest it could be withdrawn even
before the time fixed therein for its operation also in public interest and
while issuing such a notification no promise can be said to have been held out
or any representation made to the importers in general on the basis of which
they could insist on the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The notification,
which was impugned, was not designed or issued to induce the appellants to
import PVC resin. Admittedly, the said notification was not even intended as
an incentive for import. Strictly speaking, the said notification, merely
stating "being satisfied that it was necessary in the public interest so to
do" could not be said to have been extended any 'representation' much less a
'promise' to a party getting the benefit of it, to enable it to invoke the
doctrine of promissory estoppel against the State. It must, therefore, be held
that the aforesaid decision had clearly proceeded on the basis that by issuing
the earlier notification, no promise was held out to any of the importers.
Under the changed circumstances, public interest itself required reduction of
such an exemption and as no promise was held out, the Court, on the facts of
that case, justifiably rejected the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
The next case is Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India , wherein A.M.
Ahmadi, C.J., speaking for the Bench considered the correctness of the
aforesaid decision in Kasinka Trading. A.M. Ahmadi, C.J., while upholding the
notification in Shrijee Sales Corporation, would hold that the principle of
promissory estoppel is applicable against the Government, but in case there is
a supervening public equity, the Government would be allowed to change its
stand and to withdraw the representation made by it, which induced persons to
take certain steps. It is only if the Court is satisfied, on proper and
adequate material placed by the Government that overriding public interest
requires that the Government should not be held bound by the promise but
should be free to act unfettered by it, that the Court would refuse to enforce
the promise against the Government. The Court would not act on the mere ipse
dixit of the Government, for it is the Court which has to decide and not the
Government whether the Government should be held exempt from liability and the
burden would be upon the Government to show that the public interest in the
Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the promise is so
overwhelming that it would be inequitable to hold the Government bound by the
promise and the Court would insist on a highly rigorous standard of proof in
the discharge of this burden.
23\. The above finding would make it clear that, while distinguishing the
above two cases, the Supreme Court, in Pawan Alloys case, has clearly held
that as there is no promise or representation held out in those cases, those
decisions would not apply to the facts of the said case. While analysing these
two cases, the Supreme Court would refer to the two propositions which follow
from the analysis of those two decisions (i) the determination of
applicability of promissory estoppel against public authority/Government
hinges upon balance of equity or 'public interest' and (ii) it is the Court
which has to determine whether the Government should be held exempt from the
liability of the 'promise' or 'representation'.
24\. On the basis of those propositions, the Pawan Alloys case proceeded to go
into the facts of the case whether the notification impugned issued in that
case had held out any promise on the basis of which the promisee had acted and
if public interest required recall of such a promise and such a public
interest outweighed the interest of the promisee then the doctrine of
promissory estoppel against the Government would lose its rigour and cannot be
of any avail to such promisee.
25\. In the light of the settled legal position as referred to above, the
Supreme Court would refer to the facts in that case, in order to find out
whether any such a representation or promise was held out by the Government.
The relevant observation of the Supreme Court, with reference to the wordings
contained in the notification in question in that case, is given below:
A mere look at this item shows that all the aforesaid three notifications
which held the field from 29-10-1982 to 28-1-1986 clearly contained a
representation by the Board to the consumers, who were to establish new
industrial units in the territories of the State in which the Board was to
supply electricity, that on the total bill of electricity consumed by them
during the period of first three years of their taking supply they will be
getting a rebate of 10% on the total amount of such bills for electricity
consumption. It was also assured that this rebate would be available not only
to new industrial units which may get established and which may take electric
supply from the Board on and from the date on which the said last notification
of 28-1-1986 came into force, but rebate would be permissible even to those
new industries who had earlier established their industries and taken
electricity supply from the Board and three years' period earlier granted to
them for earning development rebate had remained unexpired on 1-2-1986 and for
that entire unexpired period also the said development rebate was guaranteed
by the Board. This obviously can be said to have been an incentive offered by
the Board in exercise of its statutory powers.
As a result of the aforesaid discussion, it must be held that the finding
reached on the question of promissory estoppel by the High Court on Issue No.
1 is well sustained. The respondent-Board must be treated to be estopped from
prematurely withdrawing the incentive development rebate made available to
these appellant-industries by issuing the impugned notification. Point No. 1
is accordingly answered in the affirmative in favour of the appellants and
against the Board. This takes us to the consideration of the main question on
which the High Court held against the appellants.
26\. So, on facts, in the light of the contents of three notifications, it was
held in that decision that the three notifications issued by the Board were
part and parcel of the incentive scheme. In other words, the Supreme Court
held on facts of Pawan Alloys case that this notification did hold out a
promise or representation to the public, enabling the new industries to get
established, acting on the said representation.
27\. On the strength of the above finding, it was further held by the Supreme
Court that promissory estoppel would apply to the said case and, in that
event, it is for the Government to prove to the satisfaction of the Court by
placing proper and adequate materials that overriding public interest requires
that the Government should not be held bound by the promise. It was also held
by the Supreme Court that the Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of
the Government, for which it is the Court to decide and not the Government
whether the Government should be held exempt from liability. In other words,
the burden would be upon the Government to show that the public interest in
the Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the promise is so
overwhelming that it would be inequitable to hold the Government bound by the
promise. Also, the Court would insist on a highly rigorous standard of proof
in the discharge of this burden.
28\. In the light of the above principles laid down in Pawan Alloys case, let
us now come to the facts of the present case.
29\. Let us now see the first notification, namely, G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991,
dated 11.02.1991, granting tariff concession, which reads as follows:
GOVERNMENT OF PONDICHERRY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (INDUSTRY)
(G.O.RT.NO.9/91-IND, DATED 11TH FEBRUARY 1991) ORDER The power subsidy scheme
was implemented by this Union Territory Administration since the year 1975. In
its earlier form, the scheme envisaged payment of 7 paise per unit of
consumption for subsequently revised in April 1985. It now envisages subsidy
for a period of 3 years at 33 1/3 % for the fourth year 20% and for the fifth
at 10%. Due to the upward revision of power charges in the past years, there
was corresponding increase for the payment of proportionate subsidy to the
industries. Accordingly, the quantum of subsidy disbursed to new industries
has now increased to Rs.462.00 lakhs in 1989-90 from 6.9 lakhs in 1982-83. The
main reason for the increase in expenditure under the scheme is not only due
to revising of tariff from 1985 but also due to the increase in the number of
power based industries during the VII Plan period. At the time of formulations
of the scheme, the intention was no doubt to encourage the proliferation of
industry within the territory. In actual practice, the scheme has attracted
many power intensive units which are using power be one of the inputs for
production.
2\. In view of the fact that the scheme is helping only a handful of large
industries with limited employment, necessity was felt to modify the scheme,
not only on the lines suggested by the Planning Commission but also to reduce
the heavy drain of plan funds. The Planning Commission in the past years has
been repeatedly advising not to encourage power based industries.
3\. In view of the above, the modified scheme was included in the Annual Plan
1990-91 and submitted on the Planning Commission for approval. The Planning
commission has also approved the modified scheme and earmarked funds in the
Annual Plan 1990-91.
4\. Based on the above, the Director of Industries has now submitted a
proposal vide Letter No. 1345/Ind/89-92/A8/PSS dated 9th January 1990 from the
Industries Department, Pondicherry, and requested for approval. He has also
stated that the present scheme has ended up, by encouraging only the growth of
large and medium industries which are using power as raw material for
production instead of promoting more labour intensive industries.
5\. After careful consideration and taking into account various factors
mentioned above, the Lieutenant Governor has been pleased to revise the Power
Scheme as under:
1\. For Pondicherry and Yanam Regions All Small Industries which are
energising on or after 01.03.1991 consuming Low Tension Power alone are
eligible for subsidy for the energy charges paid by them at the following rate
subject to a limit of Rs.1.00 lakh per month.
(i) 33 1/3% for a period of three years
(ii) 20% for the fourth year
(iii) 10% for the fifth year No power subsidy will be paid from sixth year
onwards. All other industries consuming High Tension Power and those coming
under the category of medium and large scale industry will not be eligible of
any power subsidy.
(ii) For Karaikal and Mahe Regions All the new low tension and high tension
industries which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 are eligible for power
subsidy at the rate subject to a limit of Rs.1.00 lakh per month as follows:
(i) 33 1/2 % for a period of three years
(ii) 20% for the fourth year
(iii) 10% for the fifth year No power subsidy will be paid from 6th year
onwards.
6\. All industries including large and medium which have been issued with
power feasibility certificate by the Superintending Engineer (Electricity)
before 01.03.1991 and have taken effective steps viz 60% or more of the
capital issued of the industrial unit, has been paid up and a substantial
portion of the factory building have been constructed and a firm order has
been placed for substantial part of the plant and machinery required for the
industrial unit will be governed by the existing power subsidy scheme in
operation during VII Plan period. In case of any dispute on the interpretation
of this para, the decision the Government shall be final.
7\. The issues with the concurrence of the Finance Department vide their U.O.
No. 3561/91/F-3 dated 16.01.1661.
(BY ORDER OF THE LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR) A.RAMALINGAM UNDER SECRETARY TO
GOVERNMENT (IND.)
30\. A reading of the above G.O. would clearly indicate that since the year
1975, the Government of Pondicherry has been implementing the Power Subsidy
Scheme, providing for tariff concession and electricity supply for the
industrial units which were established within the Union Territory of
Pondicherry. The quantum of concession varied from time to time. The aforesaid
revised scheme was issued, taking into account various factors like increased
quantum of subsidy that was being disbursed, that such a scheme was helping
only larger industries with limited employment etc.
31\. The above G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated 11.02.1991, was issued, revising
the power subsidy scheme, as per which all the industries, which came to be
established and are energised on or after 01.03.1991, are eligible for power
subsidy, for a period of five years.
32\. The object behind the notification issued from time to time based on
which the petitioners had set up the industry is to encourage setting up of
high tension new industries being encouraged by the industrial policy of the
Government of Pondicherry and the tariff concession provided. The petitioners
have set up the industry in the territory, only on the assurance that on the
setting up of such industry they will be provided with power subsidy by the
Electricity Department.
33\. Thus, in terms of the above scheme, all industries, including the small
scale industries, which came to be energised on or after 01.03.1991, were
eligible for tariff concession. It is clear that the aforesaid orders were in
the nature of incentive, offered to encourage setting up of industries,
including small scale industries.
34\. There is no dispute in the fact that each of the petitioner industries
came to be established only subsequent to the introduction of the above
incentive scheme. The petitioners invested huge moneys and took pains in
setting up of the industries, in the light of the concession granted through
the Subsidy Incentive Scheme. Therefore, it is clear that the order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, dated 11.02.1991, providing for tariff concession, is in the
nature of representation/promise, assuring the industries, which get energised
on or after 01.03.1991, the extended tariff concession and the petitioners had
acted on the said representation and set up industries, spending huge amounts
and, thus, altered their position.
35\. Under those circumstances, it has to be held that the Government of
Pondicherry is bound by the principle of promissory estoppel, to extend the
said benefits for the entire period, as assured. Consequently, the Pawan
Alloys case, , would squarely apply to the facts of the present case.
36\. It is nextly contended by the learned Counsel for the Government that
withdrawal of the G.O. by the Government was only in public interest and,
therefore, the question of promissory estoppel cannot be pressed into service.
37\. Let us now see the decisions, dealing with public interest:
(i) Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P.:
It is only if the Court is satisfied, on proper and adequate material placed
by the Government, that overriding public interest requires that the
Government should not be held bound by the promise but should be free to act
unfettered by it, that the Court would refuse to enforce the promise against
the Government. However, the Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the
Government. The burden would be upon the Government to show that the public
interest in the Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the
promise is so overwhelming. The Court would insist on a highly rigorous
standard of proof in the discharge of this burden. But, when there is no such
overriding public interest, it may still be competent to the Government to
resile from the promise 'on giving reasonable notice, giving promisee a
reasonable opportunity of resuming his position', provided it is possible for
the promisee to restore status quo ante. If the promisee cannot resume his
position, the promise would become final and irrevocable.
(ii) Onkar Lal Bajaj v. Union of India:
The expression "public interest" cannot be put in a straitjacket. "Public
interest" takes into its fold several factors. There cannot be any hard-and-
fast rule to determine what is public interest. The circumstances in each case
would determine whether Government action was taken in public interest.
(iii) Union of India v. International Trading Co.:
Doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot come in the way of public interest.
Indisputably, public interest has to prevail over private interest. The case
at hand shows that a conscious policy decision has been taken and there is no
statutory compulsion to act contrary.
A change in policy must be made fairly and should not give the impression that
it has been so done arbitrarily.
(iv) Sales Tax Officer v. Shree Durga Oil Mills:
Withdrawal of notification was done in public interest. The Court will not
interfere with any action taken by the Government in public interest. Public
interest must override any consideration of private loss or gain.
In our opinion, the plea of change of policy trade on the basis of resource
crunch should have been sufficient for dismissing the claim, based on the
doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(v) Union of India v. Indian Charge Chrome:
Where the Government on the basis of the material available before it is
satisfied bona fide that the public interest would be served by either
granting exemption or by withdrawing, modifying or rescinding an exemption
already granted it should be allowed a free hand to do so. What was given in
public interest can also be curtailed in public interest.
(vi) Hira Tikkoo v. Union Territory of Chandigarh:
Where public interest is likely to be harmed, neither the doctrine of
'legitimate expectation' nor 'estoppel' can be allowed to be pressed into
service by any citizen against the State authorities.
38\. From the above decisions, the following guidelines would emanate, with
regard to public interest:
(1) Doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot come in the way of public interest.
Indisputably, public interest has to prevail over private interest. A change
in policy must be made fairly and should not give the impression that it has
been so done arbitrarily."
(2) Where the Government on the basis of the material available before it is
satisfied bona fide that the public interest would be served by withdrawing an
exemption already granted, it should be allowed a free hand to do so. Where
public interest is likely to be harmed, neither the doctrine of 'legitimate
expectation' nor 'estoppel' can be allowed to be pressed into service against
the State authorities.
(3) It is only if the Court is satisfied, on proper and adequate material
placed by the Government, that overriding public interest requires that the
Government should not be held bound by the promise but should be free to act
unfettered by it, that the Court would refuse to enforce the promise against
the Government. However, the Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the
Government. The burden would be upon the Government to show that the public
interest in the Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the
promise is so overwhelming. The Court would insist on a highly rigorous
standard of proof in the discharge of this burden.
(4) Even when there is no such overriding public interest, it may still be
competent to the Government to resile from the promise 'on giving reasonable
notice, giving promisee a reasonable opportunity of resuming his position',
provided it is possible for the promisee to restore status quo ante. If the
promisee cannot resume his position, the promise would become final and
irrevocable.
39\. In the light of the above guidelines, let us now see G.O.Rt. No. 30,
Industries, dated 28.05.1997, withdrawing tariff concession:
GOVERNMENT OF PONDICHERRY DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT (INDUSTRY)
(G.O.Rt. No. 30/97-Ind., dated 28th May 1997) ORDER The matter of withdrawal
of the Power Subsidy Scheme for industries operating in this Union Territory
has been engaging the attention of the Government of Pondicherry for some time
past and an analysis of the Power Subsidy Scheme has revealed multifarious
inadequacies and shortcomings:
(a) Annually, this Union Territory Government spends about Rs.5 crores on
payment of power subsidies to industrial units during the first 4 years of the
VIII Plan which is a significant drain on the resources of this Union
Territory.
(b) The scheme almost from its inception has helped only large/medium power
intensive industries with 96% of the total subsidy going to them. Even here
13% of the large/medium industries have taken 66% of the total subsidy paid.
(c) It has helped in the proliferation of power intensive industries
particularly in metals and chemicals which have also turned to be the most
pollutive. Pollution today has become one of the major issues in this Union
Territory.
(d) These power intensive industries have not significantly contributed to
direct employment generation, although there has been some more indirect
employment created.
(e) The scheme with its generous features does not promote power conservation
in industries. Areas of operation, where cost-cutting is necessary, do not
become evident, as the subsidies cushion the losses caused by operational
inefficiencies.
(f) The Central Investment Subsidy Scheme in the past and tax holidays now
have far more fiscal significance in the decision to locate/continue to
operate an industry in Pondicherry than the power subsidy scheme.
(g) The withdrawal of the power subsidy would not cause a flight of
medium/large industries from Pondicherry as the advantages tax benefits
enjoyed and the lower cost of power/fuel etc. than the neighbouring States are
sufficient incentives.
2\. In the above circumstances and after careful consideration of all the
aspects in this regard, the Government has decided to withdraw the scheme of
power subsidy with effect from 1-4-1997.
V. Kuppusamy, J.
Under Secretary to Government (Ind.).
40\. A perusal of the above G.O. would indicate that the reasonings given for
withdrawal of power subsidy would not reveal that public interest would be
suffered. As a matter of fact, the word "public interest" is conspicuously
absent.
41\. As indicated above, the Court cannot accept the ground of 'public
interest', on the mere ipse dixit of the Government in the G.O. or the
counter. It is the Court, which has to decide and not the Government whether
the Government should be held exempt from liability. The burden would be
completely upon the Government to show that the public interest in the
Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the promise is so
overwhelming. It is only if the Court is satisfied, on proper and adequate
material placed by the Government, that overriding public interest requires
that the Government should not be held bound by the promise but should be free
to act unfettered by it, that the Court would refuse to enforce the said
promise against the Government.
42\. In fact, the Supreme Court would categorically hold in State of Rajasthan
v. Mahaveer Oil Industries that the materials placed before the Court must
disclose that the object with which the benefits were sought to be given were
completely frustrated and, therefore, equity demanded the Government to
withdraw the scheme.
43\. In the present case, there are no materials whatsoever placed before the
Court by the respondents, namely, the Government of Pondicherry, to show that
there are overwhelming materials, which would outweigh the benefits to the
petitioners and enable the Government to withdraw the promise. All that is
claimed in the counter is, a repetition of the order impugned. The main reason
given is the financial commitment. The Government was fully aware of it, which
was about Rs.4.62 crores in the year 1992, which is now said to be Rs.5.00
crores in the year 1997. The fact that power intensive industries and heavy
industries were also availing concession was also known. Therefore, there is
no basis for any of the reasons stated in the affidavit, to satisfy the ground
of public interest or supervening equity, which would alone enable the
Government, to withdraw the promise.
44\. As we have seen earlier, a clear-cut scheme of subsidy for new small
scale industries was put forward by the Government of Pondicherry, so that
more and more industries would be attracted to the State. It is true that in
case there is a supervening public equity, the Government would be allowed to
change its stand and the Government would then be able to withdraw from the
representation made by it, which induced persons to take certain steps, which
may have gone adverse to the interest of such persons, on account of such
withdrawal. However, the Court must satisfy itself that such a public interest
exists. In other words, it is only if the Court is satisfied on proper and
adequate materials placed by the Government that overriding public interest
requires that the Government should not be held bound by the promise, that the
Court would refuse to enforce the promise against the Government.
45\. As indicated above, the Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the
Government, for it is the Court which has to decide and not the Government
whether the Government should be held exempt from liability. This is the
essence of the rule of law. The burden would be upon the Government to show
that public interest in the Government acting otherwise than in accordance
with the promise is so overwhelming and that it would inequitable to hold the
Government bound by the promise. For deciding the said question, the Court
would insist on a highly rigorous standard of proof in the discharge of this
burden.
46\. In this case, no materials have been placed by the Government to show
that there is an overriding public interest and supervening pubic equity,
which can override individual equity. Of course, it is settled that even when
there is no such overriding public interest, it may still be competent to the
Government to resile from the promise 'on giving reasonable notice, giving
promisee a reasonable opportunity of resuming his position', provided it is
possible for the promisee to restore status quo ante. If the promisee cannot
resume his position, the promise would become final and irrevocable.
Admittedly, in this case, this mode has not been adopted at all.
47\. Therefore, in the absence of any materials placed before the Court
relating to supervening equity or public interest and in the absence of giving
reasonable notice, giving promisee a reasonable opportunity of resuming his
position to restore status quo ante and also in the light of the fact that the
promisees in these cases admittedly invested substantial amounts in setting up
the units, acting on the assurance, both express and implied, by the
Government and altered their positions by commencing the production, by which
status ante cannot be restored, there is no difficulty for this Court in
holding that Pawan Alloys case would squarely apply to the present case and,
consequently, the petitioners are entitled to the benefits of the earlier
G.O., based on the principle of promissory estoppel, which is not affected by
the so called public interest, which has not been established by the
Government.
48\. In the light of the above discussion, we will now come to the observation
made by the First Bench in the judgment in W.A. No. 2081 of 1999, dated
14.01.2000, in para 12, as referred to by the learned single Judge. Para 12 of
the said judgment reads as follows:
12\. In State of Rajasthan v. Mahaveer Oil Industries 1999 (4) S.C.C.357, the
Supreme Court examined the tenability of the withdrawal of tax exemption
scheme even during the currency of exemption scheme. The Sales Tax Incentive
Scheme for Industries 1987 was notified by the Rajasthan Government, exempting
subject to certain conditions, new industrial units from tax under the State
Act as well as the Central Act on sale of goods manufactured by them for sale
out of the State for a specified period. Even during the currency of the
scheme, the Government notified the oil extraction and manufacturing industry
in Annexure B to the scheme thereby rendering the said industry ineligible for
the benefit of the scheme. On facts, the Government found that the scheme had
failed to achieve its object and had rather adversely affected the oil
industry. Therefore, it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel
could not include the Government from issuing such notification. With the
result, notification was held to be valid.
49\. A reading of the above judgment, including para 12, would clearly
indicate that the Writ Petition was dismissed by the First Bench, mainly on
the ground that the petitioner was not entitled to the benefit of G.O.Rt. No.
9 of 1991, dated 11.02.1991, on the ground that it had not commenced
production prior to G.O.Rt. No. 30, dated 28.05.1997. The said conclusion, in
our view, is correct.
50\. As pointed out by the learned single Judge, para 12 in the judgment of
the First Bench, giving observation that even prior to the currency of the
scheme the Government can withdraw the exemption scheme, is only general,
without going into the question in depth. In other words, the said observation
is unnecessary, for deciding the question raised in that Writ Petition, as
that Writ Petition only dealt with the matter, where the petitioner had
commenced production only after issuance of G.O., withdrawing the subsidy
scheme. However, we want to make it clear that the said observation is also
wrong, in view of the fact that the same is not in consonance with the
principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Pawan Alloys case, wherein it is
held that once a promise is held out, it cannot be withdrawn during the
current period. Further, it is to be pointed out that the said observation is
not a ratio decidendi, which has got a finding effect.
51\. In this case, there are seven petitioners. Out of the seven petitioners,
five petitioners have energised their units and commenced production, even
prior to the date of G.O., dated 28.05.1997, withdrawing subsidy. So far as
the petitioners in W.P. Nos. 3735 and 3736 of 2001 are concerned, the
industries had not been set up and production was not commenced prior to the
date of the order impugned, dated 28.05.1997.
52\. Hence, all the writ petitioners, except the petitioners in W.P. Nos. 3735
and 3736 of 2001, are entitled to the benefit of power tariff concession for
the remaining period, as per G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated 11.02.1991.
Consequently, all the Writ Petitions, except W.P. Nos. 3735 and 3736 of 2001,
are allowed. No costs.
53\. SUM UP:
(1) The Government Order of Union Territory of Pondicherry in G.O.Rt. No. 9 of
1991, dated 11.02.1991, providing for power tariff concession is in the nature
of representation/promise, assuring the industries, which get energised on or
after 01.03.1991, to be extended tariff concession. The petitioners had acted
on the said representation and set up industries, spending huge amounts and,
thus, altered their position. Therefore, the Government of Pondicherry is
bound by the principles of promissory estoppel, to extend the said benefit for
the entire period of five years.
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
is only an observation. Even the said observation may not be correct, in view
of Pawan Alloys case.
(5) All the Writ Petitions, except W.P. Nos. 3735 and 3736 of 2001, are
allowed. No costs.
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
industries within the Union Territory of Pondicherry, promising certain
incentives and various concessions.
(iii) On 11.02.1991, the Government of Pondicherry issued an order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, providing for a fresh scheme of electricity subsidy tariff to
all industries, which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 in Karaikal and
Mahe regions, in the nature of incentives, offered to encourage setting up of
industries, for a period of five years.
(iv) The petitioners sought to act upon the above incentive scheme and set up
industries in the backward regions of Karaikal and Mahe regions of Pondicherry
and commenced their production, after investing huge sums, on the assumption
that they would be given the benefit of the above scheme for the full term of
five years.
(v) However, by a subsequent order in G.O.Rt. No. 30, Industries, dated
28.05.1997, the Subsidy Incentive Scheme was withdrawn by the Government of
Pondicherry, even before the expiry of five year period.
(vi) Based on the above order, the Government of Pondicherry discontinued the
tariff concession, given to the petitioners.
(vii) It is, under those circumstances, Writ Petitions were filed by the
petitioners in the year 1999, challenging the same.
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
industries within the Union Territory of Pondicherry, promising certain
incentives and various concessions.
(iii) On 11.02.1991, the Government of Pondicherry issued an order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, providing for a fresh scheme of electricity subsidy tariff to
all industries, which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 in Karaikal and
Mahe regions, in the nature of incentives, offered to encourage setting up of
industries, for a period of five years.
(iv) The petitioners sought to act upon the above incentive scheme and set up
industries in the backward regions of Karaikal and Mahe regions of Pondicherry
and commenced their production, after investing huge sums, on the assumption
that they would be given the benefit of the above scheme for the full term of
five years.
(v) However, by a subsequent order in G.O.Rt. No. 30, Industries, dated
28.05.1997, the Subsidy Incentive Scheme was withdrawn by the Government of
Pondicherry, even before the expiry of five year period.
(vi) Based on the above order, the Government of Pondicherry discontinued the
tariff concession, given to the petitioners.
(vii) It is, under those circumstances, Writ Petitions were filed by the
petitioners in the year 1999, challenging the same.
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
industries within the Union Territory of Pondicherry, promising certain
incentives and various concessions.
(iii) On 11.02.1991, the Government of Pondicherry issued an order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, providing for a fresh scheme of electricity subsidy tariff to
all industries, which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 in Karaikal and
Mahe regions, in the nature of incentives, offered to encourage setting up of
industries, for a period of five years.
(iv) The petitioners sought to act upon the above incentive scheme and set up
industries in the backward regions of Karaikal and Mahe regions of Pondicherry
and commenced their production, after investing huge sums, on the assumption
that they would be given the benefit of the above scheme for the full term of
five years.
(v) However, by a subsequent order in G.O.Rt. No. 30, Industries, dated
28.05.1997, the Subsidy Incentive Scheme was withdrawn by the Government of
Pondicherry, even before the expiry of five year period.
(vi) Based on the above order, the Government of Pondicherry discontinued the
tariff concession, given to the petitioners.
(vii) It is, under those circumstances, Writ Petitions were filed by the
petitioners in the year 1999, challenging the same.
(viii) A learned single Judge of this Court disposed of the said Writ
Petitions on 12.07.2000, directing the petitioners to approach the Government
of Pondicherry and make a representation which would be disposed of by the
Government within a stipulated period.
(ix) Accordingly, the petitioners made representations to the Government,
contending that they had acted on the basis of tariff concession in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991 and altered their position and requesting the Government to
extend the benefits for the remaining period. However, the Government of
Pondicherry rejected the said representations, by an order dated 05.10.2000.
Thereupon, the petitioners have filed these batch of Writ Petitions, seeking
to quash the orders passed by the Government, by holding that the withdrawal
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
(ii) The Government of Pondicherry called upon the promoters to set up
industries within the Union Territory of Pondicherry, promising certain
incentives and various concessions.
(iii) On 11.02.1991, the Government of Pondicherry issued an order in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991, providing for a fresh scheme of electricity subsidy tariff to
all industries, which are energised on or after 01.03.1991 in Karaikal and
Mahe regions, in the nature of incentives, offered to encourage setting up of
industries, for a period of five years.
(iv) The petitioners sought to act upon the above incentive scheme and set up
industries in the backward regions of Karaikal and Mahe regions of Pondicherry
and commenced their production, after investing huge sums, on the assumption
that they would be given the benefit of the above scheme for the full term of
five years.
(v) However, by a subsequent order in G.O.Rt. No. 30, Industries, dated
28.05.1997, the Subsidy Incentive Scheme was withdrawn by the Government of
Pondicherry, even before the expiry of five year period.
(vi) Based on the above order, the Government of Pondicherry discontinued the
tariff concession, given to the petitioners.
(vii) It is, under those circumstances, Writ Petitions were filed by the
petitioners in the year 1999, challenging the same.
(viii) A learned single Judge of this Court disposed of the said Writ
Petitions on 12.07.2000, directing the petitioners to approach the Government
of Pondicherry and make a representation which would be disposed of by the
Government within a stipulated period.
(ix) Accordingly, the petitioners made representations to the Government,
contending that they had acted on the basis of tariff concession in G.O.Rt.
No. 9 of 1991 and altered their position and requesting the Government to
extend the benefits for the remaining period. However, the Government of
Pondicherry rejected the said representations, by an order dated 05.10.2000.
Thereupon, the petitioners have filed these batch of Writ Petitions, seeking
to quash the orders passed by the Government, by holding that the withdrawal
(2) Though 'public interest' is pleaded by the Government, the Government has
not placed proper and adequate materials before the Court to the effect that
overriding public interest requires that the Government should not be held
bound by the promise and, consequently, the burden of the Government for
placing the materials to show that there is an overriding public interest has
not been discharged.
(3) Since on the assurance the units have been set up by the petitioners and
production has been commenced by spending huge amounts, the G.O.Rt. No. 30,
dated 28.05.1997, cannot have the retrospective effect, so as to affect the
rights of the petitioners, which have been accrued to them, namely, to avail
tariff concession, assured by the earlier G.O.Rt. No. 9 of 1991, dated
11.02.1991, for a period of five years, and the impugned order would apply to
the industries, which are set up subsequent to the G.O., dated 28.05.1997.
(4) The observation made by the First Bench in Para 12 of the judgment in W.A.
No. 2081 of 1999, dated 14.01.2000, relating to the withdrawal of exemption
scheme even during the currency of the scheme is not a ratio decidendi and it
