Delhi High Court
Rampgreen Solutions Pvt Ltd vs Commissioner Of Income Tax on 10 August, 2015
Author: Vibhu Bakhru
    $~
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    10.
    +                        ITA 102/2015
           RAMPGREEN SOLUTIONS PVT LTD            ..... Appellant
                       Through: Mr Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate with
                       Mr Aditya Vohra, Advocate.
                             versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                ..... Respondent
                       Through: Ms Suruchi Aggarwal, Sr. Standing
                       Counsel with Ms Lakshmi, Jr. Standing Counsel.
           CORAM:
           HON'BLE DR. JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIBHU BAKHRU
                         ORDER
           %             10.08.2015
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
1\. The Assessee has filed the present appeal under Section 260A of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter 'the Act') impugning the order dated 22 nd March,
2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereafter 'Tribunal') in ITA
No. 6286/Del/2012. The Assessee had preferred the aforesaid appeal before the
Tribunal, impugning the assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer
(hereafter 'AO') making the Transfer Pricing Adjustments (hereafter 'TP
Adjustments') in respect of the Assessment Year (hereafter 'AY') 2008-09 as
finalised by the Transfer Pricing Officer ITA 102/2015 Page 1 of 42 (hereafter
'TPO') pursuant to the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel
(hereafter 'DRP').
2\. The Assessee is, essentially, aggrieved by the TP Adjustments made in
respect of the consideration for the services rendered by the Assessee to its
overseas holding company. The TP Adjustments have been made on the basis of
the average operating profit margin (operating profit as a percentage of
operating costs) declared by other companies - eight in number - selected as
comparables for the purposes of ascertaining the Arm's Length Price (hereafter
'ALP'). According to the Assessee, two of the companies chosen as comparable
by the concerned authority, namely, Vishal Information Technology Ltd.
(hereafter 'Vishal') and eClerx Services Ltd. (hereafter 'eClerx') could not
be considered as comparables as the functions performed and the services
rendered by the said companies were materially different from those performed
by the Assessee.
3\. This Court, by an order dated 27th February, 2015, admitted the present
appeal and framed the following questions of law:-
> "1. Did the ITAT fall into error in the given circumstances of the case in
> confirming the transfer pricing adjustment to the extent of Rs.5,92,07,428/-
> upholding the inclusion of ITA 102/2015 Page 2 of 42 two comparable, i.e.,
> e-Clerx Services Limited and Vishal Information Technologies Limited, now
> called as Coral Hub Ltd.?
> 2\. Did the ITAT fall into error in not appreciating the terms of Rule l0B
> (2) of the Rules in respect of the analysis of functionally comparable
> companies?
4\. The factual context in which the aforesaid questions of law arise are
briefly stated as under:-
4.1 The Assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary of vCustomer, USA, (an
Associated Enterprise - hereafter 'AE'). The Assessee is engaged in providing
voice-based customer care to the AE's clients. The Assessee renders Call
Center services, which fall within the broad description of Information
Technology Enables Services (hereafter 'ITeS'). The Assessee has two units
registered under the Software Technology Park Scheme of the Government of
India, which are located at New Delhi and Pune. The Assessee is remunerated
for the voice call services on cost plus basis. The Assessee explained that
the AE undertakes all activities such as marketing and enters into contracts
with its customers seeking voice call services. The AE bears all the business
risks and the Assessee only acts as an offshore service provider to the
customers of the AE. In consideration for the ITA 102/2015 Page 3 of 42
services, the AE remunerates the Assessee by payment of all costs incurred by
the Assessee plus a mark up of fifteen percent of the costs. 4.2 During the
previous year, relevant to the AY 2008-09, the Assessee received an amount of
Rs. 91,73,94,525/- for voice-based call center services. The Assessee sought
to justify the consideration received for the international transactions
entered into with the AE to be at ALP. The Assessee submitted a Transfer
Pricing Report adopting operating profit margin as the Profit Level Indicator
(hereafter 'PLI') for the transfer pricing studies. The Assessee applied the
Transactional Net Margin Method (hereafter 'TNMM'), which was considered to be
the most appropriate method for the purposes of benchmarking the international
transaction. The Assessee's operating profit margin (i.e. operating
profit/total cost) was computed at 14.83% and the Assessee claimed that the
same was comparable with other companies rendering voice call services. For
the purposes of the transfer pricing study, the Assessee chose eight
comparable entities and the arithmetic average of the operating profit margins
of the said comparables was computed 15.74%. According to the Assessee, its
PLI was within the acceptable range as indicated under the second proviso to
Section ITA 102/2015 Page 4 of 42 92C. The Assessee further claimed that the
PLI was liable to be adjusted on account of (i) working capital provided to
the Assessee by the AE and (ii) the risks of the business borne by the AE.
5\. The AO referred the matter to the TPO. The TPO, by an order dated 19th
October, 2011, passed under section 92CA(3) of the Act, computed the TP
Adjustment at Rs. 11,00,35,400/- (Rupees Eleven Crore Thirty Five Thousand and
Four Hundred). The TPO accepted the method adopted by the Assessee (i.e.
TNMM), but rejected the benchmarking report. The TPO also rejected the
Assessee's claim for any adjustment on account of working capital provided to
the Assessee and/or risks borne by the AE. The TPO proceeded to identify a
different set of comparable companies for the purposes of determining the ALP.
The companies selected by the TPO which were considered to be comparables
included eClerx and Vishal (subsequently known as Coral Hub Ltd.). The TPO
computed the average operating profit margin of the comparable companies at
28.96% on the basis of the average operating profit margin of eleven companies
selected by the TPO as comparables for the purposes of benchmarking the
international transactions. On the aforesaid basis, the TPO computed the TP
Adjustment ITA 102/2015 Page 5 of 42 at Rs. 11,00,35,400/-. The AO
incorporated the aforesaid adjustment in the draft assessment order passed
under Section 144C(1) of the Act on 20th December, 2011. The Assessee objected
to the draft assessment order dated 20th December, 2011 before the DRP. The
Assessee impugned the draft assessment order on several grounds including
selection of certain companies as comparables and exclusion of other companies
considered as appropriate comparables by the Assessee.
6\. The DRP accepted the Assessee's contention with respect to certain
companies, which were considered as comparables by the TPO and directed that
the said companies be excluded for the purposes of determining the (i.e.
average operating profit margin). However, the Assessee's contentions with
regard to the exclusion of Vishal and eClerx were rejected by the DRP. The DRP
held that these companies were also providing Information Technology Enabled
Services (ITeS) and, thus, could be used as comparables. Insofar as eClerx is
concerned, the DRP held that although there were functional dissimilarities,
the same were not significant enough to warrant a rejection of the said
company as a comparable. With respect to Vishal, the DRP held that the
difference in business model of Vishal would not materially affect ITA
102/2015 Page 6 of 42 the profit margin and thus, there was no infirmity with
the TPO's decision to include the said company as a comparable in its report.
7\. The TPO recomputed the TP Adjustment in terms of the directions issued by
the DRP and computed the TP Adjustment at Rs. 5,92,07,428/-. The AO also made
certain additions on account of excess deduction claimed under Section 10A of
the Act and disallowance under Section 14A of the Act.
8\. The Assessee appealed against the final assessment order dated 9 th
October, 2012, inter alia, on the ground that eClerx and Vishal could not be
considered as comparable entities for the purpose of calculating the benchmark
operating profit margin. The Assessee claimed that the said companies were
engaged in the business of Knowledge Process Outsourcing (hereafter 'KPO')
and, thus, could not be included as comparables for the purposes of
benchmarking studies. According to the Assessee, although KPO services were
ITeS but the nature of the said services was materially different from the
services rendered by the Assessee. It was asserted that eClerx is engaged in
financial services in the nature of account ITA 102/2015 Page 7 of 42
reconciliation, trade order management services and has been rated as a
leading KPO by Nelso Hall. It was contended that similarly Vishal was engaged
in the services of data analytics and providing data processing solutions to
some of the largest brands in the world. Vishal too had been rated as a
leading KPO by Nelso Hall. In addition, it was pointed out that whilst the
employee costs incurred by Vishal was relatively low and constituted only
4.39% of its total cost during the relevant year, the hire charges, vendor
payments constituted almost 87% of the total costs. According to the Assessee,
this evidenced that Vishal's business model was different and Vishal had
outsourced significant part of its operations.
9\. The Tribunal rejected the Assessee's contention and held that both eClerx
and Vishal were engaged in providing ITeS and once a service fell within that
category then no sub-classification of the segment was permissible. The
Tribunal held that KPO is a term given to the branch of BPO Services where
apart from processing of data, knowledge is also applied. The Assessee's
objection that the said two companies had abnormally high profits and thus
ought to be excluded as comparables was also rejected.
ITA 102/2015 Page 8 of 42
10\. The learned counsel for the Assessee submitted that eClerx and Vishal
were KPO service providers and could not be considered as comparables for the
purposes of benchmarking the Assessee's international transactions with the
AE. The learned counsel referred to the decision of the Special Bench of the
Tribunal in Maersk Global Centers (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT, ITA
7466/Mum/2012, dated 7th March, 2014 and submitted that the issue of whether
Vishal and eClerx could be used as comparables was decided in favour of the
Assessee.
11\. We have heard the counsel for the parties.
12\. At the outset, it is necessary to bear in mind that the object and
purpose of introducing provisions relating to transfer pricing adjustment in
the Act. By virtue of Finance Act, 2001, Section 92 of the Act was substituted
by Sections 92 to 92F of the Act with effect from 1 st April, 2002. Section 92
of the Act, as was in force prior to 1 st April, 2002, enabled the AO to bring
the correct profits to tax in relation to certain cross-border transactions.
However, with a large number of multi-national companies establishing
operations in India, either through their subsidiaries or through other
related ventures, a need was felt to provide a statutory framework to ITA
102/2015 Page 9 of 42 ensure that there is no avoidance of tax by transfer of
income from India to other tax jurisdictions. Circular no. 14 of 2001 issued
by the CBDT indicates that the provisions of Section 92 to 92F of the Act were
introduced "With a view to provide a detailed statutory framework which can
lead to computation of reasonable, fair and equitable profits and tax in
India".
13\. The heading of Chapter X also clearly indicates that it contains "special
provisions relating to avoidance of tax". The object of Chapter X of the Act
is not to tax any notional income but to ensure that the real income is
brought to tax under the Act. This has also been explained by a Division Bench
of this Court in Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt. Ltd. and Ors.
v. Commissioner of Income Tax-III and Ors. 374 ITR 118 in the following
words:-
> "77. As a concept and principle Chapter X does not artificially broaden,
> expand or deviate from the concept of "real income". "Real income", as held
> by the Supreme Court in Poona Electricity Supply Company Limited versus CIT,
> : [1965] 57 ITR 521 (SC), means profits arrived at on commercial principles,
> subject to the provisions of the Act. Profits and gains should be true and
> correct profits and gains, neither under nor over stated. Arm's length price
> seeks to correct distortion and shifting of profits to tax the actual income
> earned by a resident/domestic AE. The profit which would have accrued had
> arm's length conditions prevailed is brought to tax. Misreporting, if any,
> on account of non-arm's ITA 102/2015 Page 10 of 42 length conditions
> resulting in lower profits, is corrected."
14\. The substratal rationale of the transfer pricing regulations is to ensure
that the true income of an Assessee is brought to tax under the Act and there
is no avoidance of tax by transfer of income from India to any other tax
jurisdiction by virtue of the influence exercised by the associated
enterprises. The aim of the provisions of Chapter X of the Act is to compute
the income in relation to a controlled transaction between an Assessee and its
associated enterprise having regard to ALP, in order to nullify the effect of
transfer of income to a jurisdiction outside India, if any, in respect of the
controlled transactions.
15\. The exercise of determining the ALP in respect of international
transactions between the related enterprises is aimed to determine the price,
which would have been charged for products and services, as nearly as
possible, in case such international transactions were not controlled by
virtue of them being executed between related parties. The object of the
exercise is, thus, to remove the effect of any influence on the prices or
costs that may have been exerted on account of the international transactions
being entered into between related parties. It is, at once, clear that for the
exercise of ITA 102/2015 Page 11 of 42 determining ALP to be reliable, it is
necessary that the controlled transactions be compared with uncontrolled
transactions which are similar in all material aspects.
16\. We may now refer to the relevant provisions of Chapter X of the Act
keeping in view the aforesaid purpose and object of introducing the said
provisions in the Act.
17\. Section 92 of the Act provides that the income arising from an
international transaction would be computed having regard to the ALP. The said
section further provides for cost and expenses to be allocated and apportioned
between two or more associated enterprises with regard to ALP.
18\. Section 92C of the Act provides for provisions relating to computation of
ALP. Sub-section (1) of Section 92C of the Act provides for the methods of
computing the ALP and sub-section (2) of Section 92C of the Act mandates that
the most appropriate method that has been referred to in Section 92C(1) be
applied for determination of ALP. Sub-section (1) and (2) of Section 92(C) of
the Act reads as under:-
ITA 102/2015 Page 12 of 42
> "92C. (1) The arm's length price in relation to an international transaction
> or specified domestic transaction shall be determined by any of the
> following methods, being the most appropriate method, having regard to the
> nature of transaction or class of transaction or class of associated persons
> or functions performed by such persons or such other relevant factors as the
> Board may prescribe, namely :--
> (a) comparable uncontrolled price method;
> (b) resale price method;
> (c) cost plus method;
> (d) profit split method;
> (e) transactional net margin method;
> (f) such other method as may be prescribed by the Board.
> (2) The most appropriate method referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
> applied, for determination of arm's length price, in the manner as may be
> prescribed:
> Provided that where more than one price is determined by the most
> appropriate method, the arm's length price shall be taken to be the
> arithmetical mean of such prices: Provided further that if the variation
> between the arm's length price so determined and price at which the
> international transaction or specified domestic transaction has actually
> been undertaken does not exceed such percentage not exceeding three per cent
> of the latter, as may be notified by the Central Government in the Official
> Gazette in this behalf, the price at which the international transaction or
> specified domestic transaction has actually been undertaken shall be deemed
> to be the arm's length price :
> Provided also that where more than one price is determined by the most
> appropriate method, the arm's length price in relation to an international
> transaction or specified domestic ITA 102/2015 Page 13 of 42 transaction
> undertaken on or after the 1st day of April, 2014, shall be computed in such
> manner as may be prescribed and accordingly the first and second proviso
> shall not apply.
> Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
> provisions of the second proviso shall also be applicable to all assessment
> or reassessment proceedings pending before an Assessing Officer as on the
> 1st day of October, 2009."
19\. It is also necessary to refer to Rule 10B of the Income Tax Rules, 1962
which provides for determination of ALP under Section 92C of the Act. Sub-
rule(1) of Rule 10B contains provisions in relation to various methods of
calculation of ALP as provided under Section 92C of the Act and reads as
under:-
> "10B. (1) For the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 92C, the arm's
> length price in relation to an international transaction or a specified
> domestic transaction shall be determined by any of the following methods,
> being the most appropriate method, in the following manner, namely :--
> (a) comparable uncontrolled price method, by which,--
> (i) the price charged or paid for property transferred or services provided
> in a comparable uncontrolled transaction, or a number of such transactions,
> is identified;
> (ii) such price is adjusted to account for differences, if any, between the
> international transaction or the specified domestic transaction and the
> comparable uncontrolled transactions or between the enterprises ITA 102/2015
> Page 14 of 42 entering into such transactions, which could materially affect
> the price in the open market;
> (iii) the adjusted price arrived at under sub-clause (ii) is taken to be an
> arm's length price in respect of the property transferred or services
> provided in the international transaction or the specified domestic
> transaction;
> (b) resale price method, by which,--
> (i) the price at which property purchased or services obtained by the
> enterprise from an associated enterprise is resold or are provided to an
> unrelated enterprise, is identified;
> (ii) such resale price is reduced by the amount of a normal gross profit
> margin accruing to the enterprise or to an unrelated enterprise from the
> purchase and resale of the same or similar property or from obtaining and
> providing the same or similar services, in a comparable uncontrolled
> transaction, or a number of such transactions;
> (iii) the price so arrived at is further reduced by the expenses incurred by
> the enterprise in connection with the purchase of property or obtaining of
> services;
> (iv) the price so arrived at is adjusted to take into account the functional
> and other differences, including differences in accounting practices, if
> any, between the international transaction or the specified domestic
> transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the
> enterprises entering into such transactions, which could materially affect
> the amount of gross profit margin in the open market;
ITA 102/2015 Page 15 of 42
> (v) the adjusted price arrived at under sub-clause (iv) is taken to be an
> arm's length price in respect of the purchase of the property or obtaining
> of the services by the enterprise from the associated enterprise;
> (c) cost plus method, by which,--
> (i) the direct and indirect costs of production incurred by the enterprise
> in respect of property transferred or services provided to an associated
> enterprise, are determined;
> (ii) the amount of a normal gross profit mark-up to such costs (computed
> according to the same accounting norms) arising from the transfer or
> provision of the same or similar property or services by the enterprise, or
> by an unrelated enterprise, in a comparable uncontrolled transaction, or a
> number of such transactions, is determined;
> (iii) the normal gross profit mark-up referred to in sub-
> clause (ii) is adjusted to take into account the functional and other
> differences, if any, between the international transaction or the specified
> domestic transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or
> between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which could
> materially affect such profit mark-up in the open market;
> (iv) the costs referred to in sub-clause (i) are increased by the adjusted
> profit mark-up arrived at under sub- clause (iii);
> (v) the sum so arrived at is taken to be an arm's length price in relation
> to the supply of the property or provision of services by the enterprise;
> (d) profit split method, which may be applicable mainly in ITA 102/2015 Page
> 16 of 42 international transactions or specified domestic transactions
> involving transfer of unique intangibles or in multiple international
> transactions or specified domestic transactions which are so interrelated
> that they cannot be evaluated separately for the purpose of determining the
> arm's length price of any one transaction, by which--
> (i) the combined net profit of the associated enterprises arising from the
> international transaction or the specified domestic transaction in which
> they are engaged, is determined;
> (ii) the relative contribution made by each of the associated enterprises to
> the earning of such combined net profit, is then evaluated on the basis of
> the functions performed, assets employed or to be employed and risks assumed
> by each enterprise and on the basis of reliable external market data which
> indicates how such contribution would be evaluated by unrelated enterprises
> performing comparable functions in similar circumstances;
> (iii) the combined net profit is then split amongst the enterprises in
> proportion to their relative contributions, as evaluated under sub-clause
> (ii);
> (iv) the profit thus apportioned to the assessee is taken into account to
> arrive at an arm's length price in relation to the international transaction
> or the specified domestic transaction:
> Provided that the combined net profit referred to in sub-clause
> (i) may, in the first instance, be partially allocated to each enterprise so
> as to provide it with a basic return appropriate for the type of
> international transaction or specified domestic transaction in which it is
> engaged, with reference to market returns achieved for similar types of
> transactions by independent enterprises, and thereafter, the residual net
> profit remaining after such allocation may be split amongst the ITA 102/2015
> Page 17 of 42 enterprises in proportion to their relative contribution in
> the manner specified under sub-clauses (ii) and (iii), and in such a case
> the aggregate of the net profit allocated to the enterprise in the first
> instance together with the residual net profit apportioned to that
> enterprise on the basis of its relative contribution shall be taken to be
> the net profit arising to that enterprise from the international transaction
> or the specified domestic transaction ;
> (e) transactional net margin method, by which,--
> (i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international
> transaction or a specified domestic transaction entered into with an
> associated enterprise is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales
> effected or assets employed or to be employed by the enterprise or having
> regard to any other relevant base;
> (ii) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise or by an unrelated
> enterprise from a comparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such
> transactions is computed having regard to the same base;
> (iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii) arising in
> comparable uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the
> differences, if any, between the international transaction or the specified
> domestic transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or
> between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which could
> materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the open market;
> (iv) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise and referred to in
> sub-clause (i) is established to be the ITA 102/2015 Page 18 of 42 same as
> the net profit margin referred to in sub- clause (iii);
> (v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to
> arrive at an arm's length price in relation to the international transaction
> or the specified domestic transaction;
> (f) any other method as provided in rule 10AB."
For the purposes of the present case, clause (e) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 10B
is relevant as it pertains to determination of ALP by TNMM.
20\. In order for the benchmarking studies to be reliable for the purposes of
determining the ALP, it would be essential that the entities selected as
comparables are functionally similar and are subject to the similar business
environment and risks as the tested party. In order to impute an ALP to a
controlled transaction, it would be essential to ensure that the instances of
uncontrolled entities/transactions selected as comparables are similar in all
material aspects that have any bearing on the value or the profitability, as
the case may be, of the transaction. Any factor, which has an influence on the
PLI, would be material and it would be necessary to ensure that the
comparables are also equally subjected to the influence of such factors as the
tested party. This would, obviously, include business environment; the ITA
102/2015 Page 19 of 42 nature and functions performed by the tested party and
the comparable entities; the value addition in respect of products and
services provided by parties; the business model; and the assets and resources
employed. It cannot be disputed that the functions performed by an entity
would have a material bearing on the value and profitability of the entity. It
is, therefore, obvious that the comparables selected and the tested party must
be functionally similar for ascertaining a reliable ALP by TNMM. Rule 10B(2)
of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 also clearly indicates that the comparability of
controlled transactions would be judged with reference to the factors as
indicated therein. Clause (a) and (b) of Rule 10B(2) expressly indicate that
the specific characteristics of the services provided and the functions
performed would be factors for considering the comparability of uncontrolled
transactions with controlled transactions.
21\. Rule 10B(2) reads as under:-
> "(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1), the comparability of an international
> transaction or a specified domestic transaction with an uncontrolled
> transaction shall be judged with reference to the following, namely:--
> (a) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services
> provided in either transaction;
> (b) the functions performed, taking into account assets ITA 102/2015 Page 20
> of 42 employed or to be employed and the risks assumed, by the respective
> parties to the transactions;
> (c) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in
> writing) of the transactions which lay down explicitly or implicitly how the
> responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between the
> respective parties to the transactions;
> (d) conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective parties to
> the transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of
> the markets, the laws and Government orders in force, costs of labour and
> capital in the markets, overall economic development and level of
> competition and whether the markets are wholesale or retail."
> 22\. In the facts of the present case, it is not disputed that Vishal and
> eClerx are entities engaged in Knowledge Process Outsourcing Services (KPO
> Services). Thus, the principal question to be addressed is whether a KPO
> Service provider could be considered as a comparable for benchmarking
> international transactions entered into by an entity rendering voice call
> services - such as the Assessee -with its associated enterprise by using
> TNMM and taking operating profit margin as the PLI .
23\. In this case, the Tribunal noted that eClerx was engaged in data
processing and analytics services and held that the activities of the Assessee
ITA 102/2015 Page 21 of 42 were functionally similar to those of eClerx. The
Tribunal concluded that voice call services and KPO services were essentially
ITeS and, therefore, entities rendering the aforesaid services could be
considered as comparables for the purpose of benchmarking international
transactions by using TNMM. The Tribunal held that further sub-division of
ITeS was not permissible. The Tribunal followed its earlier decision in Willis
Processing Services (I) (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT 30 ITR (Trib)129 (Mumbai) 2014.
24\. It is not disputed that voice call services are considered to be the
lower-end of ITeS. KPO on the other hand are ITeS where the service providers
have to employ advanced level of skills and knowledge. Notification No.
SO2810(E) dated 18th September 2013 issued by the CBDT notifying Safe Harbour
Rules also indicates the above. Rule 10TA(g) of the said Rules defines KPO
Services as under:-
> " (g) "knowledge process outsourcing services" means the following business
> process outsourcing services provided mainly with the assistance or use of
> information technology requiring application of knowledge and advanced
> analytical and technical skills, namely:â€
> (i) geographic information system;
> (ii) human resources services;
ITA 102/2015 Page 22 of 42
> (iii) engineering and design services;
           (iv) animation       or    content   development    and
           management;
           (v) business analytics;
           (vi) financial analytics; or
           (vii) market research,
> but does not include any research and development services whether or not in
> the nature of contract research and development services;"
25\. Whilst Voice Call Center represents the lower-end of ITeS, KPO represents
services involving a higher level of skills and knowledge. India has vast
human resources and a large number of highly-skilled technical professionals.
The expression "KPO" indicates the involvement of domain knowledge in
providing ITeS. Typically, KPO includes involvement of advance skills; the
services provided may include analytical services, market research, legal
research, engineering and design services, intellectual management etc. On the
other hand, Voice Call Centers are normally involved in customer support and
processing of routine data. In the case of Maersk Global Centers (India) Pvt.
Ltd. v. ACIT (supra) a Special Bench of the Tribunal had referred to a report
prepared by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) on Human Resource
and Skill Requirements in IT and ITES Sector (2022) and noted that the KPO
sector ITA 102/2015 Page 23 of 42 has been described as "a value play". The
said report also indicates that KPO services are likely to span activities
such as "patent advisory, high-end research and analytics, online market
research and legal advisory".
26\. A Knowledge Process is understood as a high value added process chain
wherein the processes are dependent on advanced skills, domain knowledge and
the experience of the persons carrying on such processes.
27\. The Government of Rajasthan (Department of Information Technology &
Communication) has also floated a scheme on 12 th December, 2011 known as "The
Rajasthan Incentive Scheme for BPO Centers and KPO Centers, 2011". The said
scheme is for providing incentives to promote ITeS and to generate further
employment opportunities. In terms of the said scheme, "Business Process
Outsourcing (BPO)" is defined to mean "the transfer of an organization's
entire non-core but critical business process/function to an external centre
which uses an IT-based service delivery" and "Knowledge Processing Outsourcing
(KPO)" has been defined to mean "allocation of relatively high-level tasks to
an outside organization or a different group (possibly in a different
location) within the ITA 102/2015 Page 24 of 42 same organization. KPO is,
essentially, high-end Business Process Outsourcing (BPO)".
28\. In our view, the definition of KPO provided under the afore- mentioned
scheme also indicates that KPO services are understood as the higher-end of
ITeS in terms of value addition.
29\. It is apparent from the above that while entities rendering Voice Call
Center services for customer support and a KPO service provider may be
employing IT-based delivery systems, the characteristics of services, the
functional aspects, business environment, risks and the quality of human
resource employed would be materially different. It plainly follows that
benchmarking international transactions on the basis of comparing the PLI of
high-end KPO service providers with the PLI of Voice Call Centers would be
unreliable and possibly flawed.
30\. As indicated above, in order to determine the ALP in relation to a
controlled transaction, the analysis must include comparables which are
similar in all aspects that have a material bearing on their profitability.
ITA 102/2015 Page 25 of 42 Paragraph 1.36 of the "OECD Transfer Pricing
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations" published in
2010 (hereafter 'OECD Guidelines') indicates the "comparability factors" which
are important while considering the comparability of uncontrolled
transactions/entities with the controlled transactions/entities. Sub-rule (2)
of rule 10B of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 also mandates that the comparability
of international transactions with uncontrolled transactions would be judged
with reference to the factors indicated under clauses (a) to (d) of that sub-
rule, which are similar to the comparability factors as indicated under the
OECD Guidelines. These include characteristics of property or services
transferred and functions performed. The relevant extract from the OECD
Guidelines are quoted below:
> "1.36 As noted above, in making these comparisons, material differences
> between the compared transactions or enterprises should be taken into
> account. In order to establish the degree of actual comparability and then
> to make appropriate adjustments to establish arm's length conditions (or a
> range thereof), it is necessary to compare attributes of the transactions or
> enterprises that would affect conditions in arm's length transactions.
> Attributes or "comparability factors" that may be important when determining
> comparability include the characteristics of the property or services
> transferred, the functions performed by the parties (taking into account
> assets used and risks assumed), the contractual terms, the economic
> circumstances of the parties, and the business strategies ITA 102/2015 Page
> 26 of 42 pursued by the parties. These comparability factors are discussed
> in more detail at Section D.1.2 below.
> xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 1.39 Differences in the specific characteristics of
> property or services often account, at least in part, for differences in
> their value in the open market. Therefore, comparisons of these features may
> be useful in determining the comparability of controlled and uncontrolled
> transactions. Characteristics that may be important to consider include the
> following: in the case of transfers of tangible property, the physical
> features of the property, its quality and reliability, and the availability
> and volume of supply; in the case of the provision of services, the nature
> and extent of the services; and in the case of intangible property, the form
> of transaction (e.g. licensing or sale), the type of property (e.g. patent,
> trademark, or know- how), the duration and degree of protection, and the
> anticipated benefits from the use of the property. 1.40 Depending on the
> transfer pricing method, this factor must be given more or less weight.
> Among the methods described at Chapter II of these Guidelines, the
> requirement for comparability of property or services is the strictest for
> the comparable uncontrolled price method. Under the comparable uncontrolled
> price method, any material difference in the characteristics of property or
> services can have an effect on the price and would require an appropriate
> adjustment to be considered (see in particular paragraph 2.15). Under the
> resale price method and cost plus method, some differences in the
> characteristics of property or services are less likely to have a material
> effect on the gross profit margin or mark- up on costs (see in particular
> paragraphs 2.23 and 2.41). Differences in the characteristics of property or
> services are also less sensitive in the case of the transactional profit
> methods than in the case of traditional transaction methods (see in
> particular paragraph 2.69). This however ITA 102/2015 Page 27 of 42 does not
> mean that the question of comparability in characteristics of property or
> services can be ignored when applying these methods, because it may be that
> product differences entail or reflect different functions performed, assets
> used and/or risks assumed by the tested party. See paragraphs 3.18-3.19 for
> a discussion of the notion of tested party.
> 1.41 In practice, it has been observed that comparability analyses for
> methods based on gross or net profit indicators often put more emphasis on
> functional similarities than on product similarities. Depending on the facts
> and circumstances of the case, it may be acceptable to broaden the scope of
> the comparability analysis to include uncontrolled transactions involving
> products that are different, but where similar functions are undertaken.
> However, the acceptance of such an approach depends on the effects that the
> product differences have on the reliability of the comparison and on whether
> or not more reliable data are available. Before broadening the search to
> include a larger number of potentially comparable uncontrolled transactions
> based on similar functions being undertaken, thought should be given to
> whether such transactions are likely to offer reliable comparables for the
> controlled transaction.
> D.1.2.2 Functional analysis 1.42 In transactions between two independent
> enterprises, compensation usually will reflect the functions that each
> enterprise performs (taking into account assets used and risks assumed).
> Therefore, in determining whether controlled and uncontrolled transactions
> or entities are comparable, a functional analysis is necessary. This
> functional analysis seeks to identify and compare the economically
> significant activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used and
> risks assumed by the parties to the transactions. For this purpose, it may
> be helpful to understand the structure and organisation of the group and how
> they influence the context in which the taxpayer ITA 102/2015 Page 28 of 42
> operates. It will also be relevant to determine the legal rights and
> obligations of the taxpayer in performing its functions.
> 1.43 The functions that taxpayers and tax administrations might need to
> identify and compare include, e.g. design, manufacturing, assembling,
> research and development, servicing, purchasing, distribution, marketing,
> advertising, transportation, financing and management. The principal
> functions performed by the party under examination should be identified.
> Adjustments should be made for any material differences from the functions
> undertaken by any independent enterprises with which that party is being
> compared. While one party may provide a large number of functions relative
> to that of the other party to the transaction, it is the economic
> significance of those functions in terms of their frequency, nature, and
> value to the respective parties to the transactions that is important.
> 1.44 The functional analysis should consider the type of assets used, such
> as plant and equipment, the use of valuable intangibles, financial assets,
> etc., and the nature of the assets used, such as the age, market value,
> location, property right protections available, etc. 1.45 Controlled and
> uncontrolled transactions and entities are not comparable if there are
> significant differences in the risks assumed for which appropriate
> adjustments cannot be made. Functional analysis is incomplete unless the
> material risks assumed by each party have been considered since the
> assumption or allocation of risks would influence the conditions of
> transactions between the associated enterprises. Usually, in the open
> market, the assumption of increased risk would also be compensated by an
> increase in the expected return, although the actual return may or may not
> increase depending on the degree to which the risks are actually realised.
ITA 102/2015 Page 29 of 42
> 1.46 The types of risks to consider include market risks, such as input cost
> and output price fluctuations; risks of loss associated with the investment
> in and use of property, plant, and equipment; risks of the success or
> failure of investment in research and development; financial risks such as
> those caused by currency exchange rate and interest rate variability; credit
> risks; and so forth.
> xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 1.51 In some cases, it has been argued that the relative
> lack of accuracy of the functional analysis of possible external comparables
> (as defined in paragraph 3.24) might be counterbalanced by the size of the
> sample of third party data; however quantity does not make up for poor
> quality of data in producing a sufficiently reliable analysis. See
> paragraphs 3.2, 3.38 and 3.46. "
31\. In the present case, the Tribunal noted that Vishal and eClerx were both
engaged in rendering ITeS. The Tribunal held that, "once a service falls under
the category of ITeS, then there is no sub-classification of segment". Thus,
according to the Tribunal, no differentiation could be made between the
entities rendering ITeS. We find it difficult to accept this view as it is
contrary to the fundamental rationale of determining ALP by comparing
controlled transactions/entities with similar uncontrolled
transactions/entities. ITeS encompasses a wide spectrum of services that use
Information Technology based delivery. Such services could include rendering
highly technical services by qualified technical personnel, ITA 102/2015 Page
30 of 42 involving advanced skills and knowledge, such as engineering, design
and support. While, on the other end of the spectrum ITeS would also include
voice-based call centers that render routine customer support for their
clients. Clearly, characteristics of the service rendered would be dissimilar.
Further, both service providers cannot be considered to be functionally
similar. Their business environment would be entirely different, the demand
and supply for the services would be different, the assets and capital
employed would differ, the competence required to operate the two services
would be different. Each of the aforesaid factors would have a material
bearing on the profitability of the two entities. Treating the said entities
to be comparables only for the reason that they use Information Technology for
the delivery of their services, would, in our opinion, be erroneous.
32\. It has been pointed out that whilst the Tribunal in Willis Processing
Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT (supra) held that no distinction could be
made between KPO and BPO service providers, however, a contrary view had been
taken by several benches of the Tribunal in other cases. In Capital IQ
Information System India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT, (IT) [2013] 32 taxmann.com 21
and Lloyds TSB Global Services Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT, (ITA ITA 102/2015 Page 31 of
42 No. 5928/Mum/2012 dated 21th November 2012), the Hyderabad and Mumbai Bench
of the Tribunal respectively accepted the view that a BPO service provider
could not be compared with a KPO service provider.
33\. The Special Bench of the Tribunal in Maersk Global Centers (India) Pvt.
Ltd. (supra) struck a different cord. The Special Bench of the Tribunal held
that even though there appears to be a difference between BPO and KPO
Services, the line of difference is very thin. The Tribunal was of the view
that there could be a significant overlap in their activities and it may be
difficult to classify services strictly as falling under the category of
either a BPO or a KPO. The Tribunal also observed that one of the key success
factors of the BPO Industry is its ability to move up the value chain through
KPO service offering. For the aforesaid reasons, the Special Bench of the
Tribunal held that ITeS Services could not be bifurcated as BPO and KPO
Services for the purpose of comparability analysis in the first instance. The
Tribunal proceeded to hold that a relatively equal degree of comparability can
be achieved by selecting potential comparables on a broad functional analysis
at ITeS level and that the comparables so selected could be put to further
test by comparing specific functions performed in the international ITA
102/2015 Page 32 of 42 transactions with uncontrolled transactions to attain
relatively equal degree of comparability.
34\. We have reservations as to the Tribunal's aforesaid view in Maersk Global
Centers (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). As indicated above, the expression 'BPO'
and 'KPO' are, plainly, understood in the sense that whereas, BPO does not
necessarily involve advanced skills and knowledge; KPO, on the other hand,
would involve employment of advanced skills and knowledge for providing
services. Thus, the expression 'KPO' in common parlance is used to indicate an
ITeS provider providing a completely different nature of service than any
other BPO service provider. A KPO service provider would also be functionally
different from other BPO service providers, inasmuch as the responsibilities
undertaken, the activities performed, the quality of resources employed would
be materially different. In the circumstances, we are unable to agree that
broadly ITeS sector can be used for selecting comparables without making a
conscious selection as to the quality and nature of the content of services.
Rule 10B(2)(a) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 mandates that the comparability
of controlled and uncontrolled transactions be judged with reference to
service/product characteristics. This ITA 102/2015 Page 33 of 42 factor cannot
be undermined by using a broad classification of ITeS which takes within its
fold various types of services with completely different content and value.
Thus, where the tested party is not a KPO service provider, an entity
rendering KPO services cannot be considered as a comparable for the purposes
of Transfer Pricing analysis. The perception that a BPO service provider may
have the ability to move up the value chain by offering KPO services cannot be
a ground for assessing the transactions relating to services rendered by the
BPO service provider by benchmarking it with the transactions of KPO services
providers. The object is to ascertain the ALP of the service rendered and not
of a service (higher in value chain) that may possibly be rendered
subsequently.
35\. As pointed out by the Special Bench of the Tribunal in Maersk Global
Centers (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra), there may be cases where an entity may be
rendering a mix of services some of which may be functionally comparable to a
KPO while other services may not. In such cases a classification of BPO and
KPO may not be feasible. Clearly, no straitjacket formula can be applied. In
cases where the categorization of services rendered cannot be defined with
certainty, it would be apposite to employ ITA 102/2015 Page 34 of 42 the broad
functionality test and then exclude uncontrolled entities, which are found to
be materially dissimilar in aspects and features that have a bearing on the
profitability of those entities. However, where the controlled transactions
are clearly in the nature of lower-end ITeS such as Call Centers etc. for
rendering data processing not involving domain knowledge, inclusion of any KPO
service provider as a comparable would not be warranted and the transfer
pricing study must take that into account at the threshold.
36\. As pointed out earlier, the transfer pricing analysis must serve the
broad object of benchmarking an international transaction for determining an
ALP. The methodology necessitates that the comparables must be similar in
material aspects. The comparability must be judged on factors such as
product/service characteristics, functions undertaken, assets used, risks
assumed. This is essential to ensure the efficacy of the exercise. There is
sufficient flexibility available within the statutory framework to ensure a
fair ALP.
37\. Applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case, it is
ITA 102/2015 Page 35 of 42 once again clear that both Vishal and eClerx could
not be taken as comparables for determining the ALP. Vishal and eClerx, both
are into KPO Services. In Maersk Global Centers (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the
Special Bench of the Tribunal had noted that eClerx is engaged in data
analytics, data processing services, pricing analytics, bundling optimization,
content operation, sales and marketing support, product data management,
revenue management. In addition, eClerx also offered financial services such
as real-time capital markets, middle and back-office support, portfolio risk
management services and various critical data management services. Clearly,
the aforesaid services are not comparable with the services rendered by the
Assessee. Further, the functions undertaken (i.e. the activities performed)
are also not comparable with the Assessee. In our view, the Tribunal erred in
holding that the functions performed by the Assessee were broadly similar to
that of eClerx or Vishal. The operating margin of eClerx, thus, could not be
included to arrive at an ALP of controlled transactions, which were materially
different in its content and value. In Maersk Global Centers (India) Pvt. Ltd.
(supra), the Special Bench of the Tribunal had noted the same and had, thus,
excluded eClerx as a comparable. It is further observed that the comparability
of eClerx had also been examined by the ITA 102/2015 Page 36 of 42 Hyderabad
Bench of the Tribunal in M/s Capital Iq Information Systems (India) (P.) Ltd.
v. Additional Commissioner of Income-tax (supra), wherein, the Tribunal
directed the exclusion of eClerx as a comparable for the reason that it was
engaged in providing KPO Services and further that it had also returned
supernormal profits.
38\. In our view, even Vishal could not be considered as a comparable, as
admittedly, its business model was completely different. Admittedly, Vishal's
expenditure on employment cost during the relevant period was a small fraction
of the proportionate cost incurred by the Assessee, apparently, for the reason
that most of its work was outsourced to other vendors/service providers. The
DRP and the Tribunal erred in brushing aside this vital difference by
observing that outsourcing was common in ITeS industry and the same would not
have a bearing on profitability. Plainly, a business model where services are
rendered by employing own employees and using one's own infrastructure would
have a different cost structure as compared to a business model where services
are outsourced. There was no material for the Tribunal to conclude that the
outsourcing of services by Vishal would have no bearing on the profitability
of the said entity. ITA 102/2015 Page 37 of 42
39\. It is also relevant to note that in the case of Maersk Global Centers
(India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the DRP itself had accepted the objection of the
Assessee and had excluded Vishal as a comparable for the reason as quoted
below:-
> "... that it had a very low employment cost and very high cost on account of
> venture payment, which suggested that its business model was that of an
> outsourcing company and in view of this functional difference, Vishal Ltd.
> could not be considered as a comparable."
40\. The Assessee had also sought the exclusion of eClerx and Vishal on the
ground that both the companies had returned supernormal profits. Whereas the
operating margins (operating margin over total cost) in case of Vishal and
eClerx were 50.68% and 65.88% respectively, the PLIs of all other comparables
were in the range of 2.2% to 24%. In our view, it would not be apposite to
exclude comparables only for the reason that their profits are high, as the
same is not provided for in the statutory framework. The OECD Guidelines
suggest that a quartile method be adopted which excludes entities that fall in
the extreme quartiles for comparability. However, neither Chapter X of the Act
nor the Rules made by CBDT provide for exclusion for such statistical reason.
ITA 102/2015 Page 38 of 42
41\. Having stated the same, it may be necessary to bear in mind that
supernormal profits may in certain cases indicate a functional dissimilarity
or dissimilarity with respect to a feature that has a material bearing on the
profitability. In such circumstances, it would be necessary to undertake
further analysis to eliminate the possibility of the high profits resulting on
account of any material dissimilarity between the tested party and the chosen
comparable. A wide deviation in the PLI amongst selected comparables could be
indicative that the comparables selected are either materially dissimilar or
the data used is not reliable. The Tribunal proceeded on the basis that an
adjustment could be made only in cases where supernormal profits resulted from
the factors indicated in Rule 10B of the Income Tax Rules, 1962. In our view,
the factors mentioned in Rule 10B are not exhaustive. The principal object of
benchmarking international transactions against uncontrolled transactions is
to impute an ALP to those transactions. This exercise would fail if a factor,
which has a material bearing on the value or the profitability, as the case
may be, depending on the method used, is ignored.
42\. Before concluding, there is yet another aspect of the matter that needs
ITA 102/2015 Page 39 of 42 consideration. The Tribunal proceeded on the basis
that while applying TNMM method, broad functionality is sufficient and it is
not necessary that further effort be taken to find a comparable entity
rendering services of similar characteristics as the tested entity. The DRP
held that TNMM allows flexibility and tolerance in selection of comparables,
as functional dissimilarities are subsumed at net margin levels, as compared
to Resale Price Method or Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method and, therefore,
the functional dissimilarities pointed out by the Assessee did not warrant
rejection of eClerx and Vishal as comparables.
43\. In our view, the aforesaid approach would not be apposite. Insofar as
identifying comparable transactions/entities is concerned, the same would not
differ irrespective of the transfer pricing method adopted. In other words,
the comparable transactions/entities must be selected on the basis of
similarity with the controlled transaction/entity. Comparability of controlled
and uncontrolled transactions has to be judged, inter alia, with reference to
comparability factors as indicated under rule 10B(2) of the Income Tax Rules,
1962. Comparability analysis by TNMM method may be less sensitive to certain
dissimilarities between the tested party and the ITA 102/2015 Page 40 of 42
comparables. However, that cannot be the consideration for diluting the
standards of selecting comparable transactions/entities. A higher product and
functional similarity would strengthen the efficacy of the method in
ascertaining a reliable ALP. Therefore, as far as possible, the comparables
must be selected keeping in view the comparability factors as specified. Wide
deviations in PLI must trigger further investigations/analysis.
44\. Consideration for a transaction would reflect the functions performed,
the significant activities undertaken, the assets or resources used/consumed,
the risks assumed. Thus, comparison of activities undertaken/functions
performed is important for determining the comparability between controlled
and uncontrolled transactions/entity. It would not be apposite to ignore
functional dissimilarity only for the reason that its impact may be reduced on
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
The impugned order dated 22nd March, 2013 of the Tribunal and the final
assessment order dated 9th October, 2012 are hereby set aside. The appeal is
allowed.
VIBHU BAKHRU, J S. MURALIDHAR, J AUGUST 10, 2015 RK ITA 102/2015 Page 42 of 42
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
1\. The Assessee has filed the present appeal under Section 260A of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter 'the Act') impugning the order dated 22 nd March,
2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereafter 'Tribunal') in ITA
No. 6286/Del/2012. The Assessee had preferred the aforesaid appeal before the
Tribunal, impugning the assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer
(hereafter 'AO') making the Transfer Pricing Adjustments (hereafter 'TP
Adjustments') in respect of the Assessment Year (hereafter 'AY') 2008-09 as
finalised by the Transfer Pricing Officer ITA 102/2015 Page 1 of 42 (hereafter
'TPO') pursuant to the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel
(hereafter 'DRP').
2\. The Assessee is, essentially, aggrieved by the TP Adjustments made in
respect of the consideration for the services rendered by the Assessee to its
overseas holding company. The TP Adjustments have been made on the basis of
the average operating profit margin (operating profit as a percentage of
operating costs) declared by other companies - eight in number - selected as
comparables for the purposes of ascertaining the Arm's Length Price (hereafter
'ALP'). According to the Assessee, two of the companies chosen as comparable
by the concerned authority, namely, Vishal Information Technology Ltd.
(hereafter 'Vishal') and eClerx Services Ltd. (hereafter 'eClerx') could not
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
1\. The Assessee has filed the present appeal under Section 260A of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter 'the Act') impugning the order dated 22 nd March,
2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereafter 'Tribunal') in ITA
No. 6286/Del/2012. The Assessee had preferred the aforesaid appeal before the
Tribunal, impugning the assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer
(hereafter 'AO') making the Transfer Pricing Adjustments (hereafter 'TP
Adjustments') in respect of the Assessment Year (hereafter 'AY') 2008-09 as
finalised by the Transfer Pricing Officer ITA 102/2015 Page 1 of 42 (hereafter
'TPO') pursuant to the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel
(hereafter 'DRP').
2\. The Assessee is, essentially, aggrieved by the TP Adjustments made in
respect of the consideration for the services rendered by the Assessee to its
overseas holding company. The TP Adjustments have been made on the basis of
the average operating profit margin (operating profit as a percentage of
operating costs) declared by other companies - eight in number - selected as
comparables for the purposes of ascertaining the Arm's Length Price (hereafter
'ALP'). According to the Assessee, two of the companies chosen as comparable
by the concerned authority, namely, Vishal Information Technology Ltd.
(hereafter 'Vishal') and eClerx Services Ltd. (hereafter 'eClerx') could not
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
1\. The Assessee has filed the present appeal under Section 260A of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter 'the Act') impugning the order dated 22 nd March,
2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereafter 'Tribunal') in ITA
No. 6286/Del/2012. The Assessee had preferred the aforesaid appeal before the
Tribunal, impugning the assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer
(hereafter 'AO') making the Transfer Pricing Adjustments (hereafter 'TP
Adjustments') in respect of the Assessment Year (hereafter 'AY') 2008-09 as
finalised by the Transfer Pricing Officer ITA 102/2015 Page 1 of 42 (hereafter
'TPO') pursuant to the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel
(hereafter 'DRP').
2\. The Assessee is, essentially, aggrieved by the TP Adjustments made in
respect of the consideration for the services rendered by the Assessee to its
overseas holding company. The TP Adjustments have been made on the basis of
the average operating profit margin (operating profit as a percentage of
operating costs) declared by other companies - eight in number - selected as
comparables for the purposes of ascertaining the Arm's Length Price (hereafter
'ALP'). According to the Assessee, two of the companies chosen as comparable
by the concerned authority, namely, Vishal Information Technology Ltd.
(hereafter 'Vishal') and eClerx Services Ltd. (hereafter 'eClerx') could not
be considered as comparables as the functions performed and the services
rendered by the said companies were materially different from those performed
by the Assessee.
3\. This Court, by an order dated 27th February, 2015, admitted the present
appeal and framed the following questions of law:-
> "1. Did the ITAT fall into error in the given circumstances of the case in
> confirming the transfer pricing adjustment to the extent of Rs.5,92,07,428/-
> upholding the inclusion of ITA 102/2015 Page 2 of 42 two comparable, i.e.,
> e-Clerx Services Limited and Vishal Information Technologies Limited, now
> called as Coral Hub Ltd.?
> 2\. Did the ITAT fall into error in not appreciating the terms of Rule l0B
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
    VIBHU BAKHRU, J.
1\. The Assessee has filed the present appeal under Section 260A of the Income
Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter 'the Act') impugning the order dated 22 nd March,
2013 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereafter 'Tribunal') in ITA
No. 6286/Del/2012. The Assessee had preferred the aforesaid appeal before the
Tribunal, impugning the assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer
(hereafter 'AO') making the Transfer Pricing Adjustments (hereafter 'TP
Adjustments') in respect of the Assessment Year (hereafter 'AY') 2008-09 as
finalised by the Transfer Pricing Officer ITA 102/2015 Page 1 of 42 (hereafter
'TPO') pursuant to the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel
(hereafter 'DRP').
2\. The Assessee is, essentially, aggrieved by the TP Adjustments made in
respect of the consideration for the services rendered by the Assessee to its
overseas holding company. The TP Adjustments have been made on the basis of
the average operating profit margin (operating profit as a percentage of
operating costs) declared by other companies - eight in number - selected as
comparables for the purposes of ascertaining the Arm's Length Price (hereafter
'ALP'). According to the Assessee, two of the companies chosen as comparable
by the concerned authority, namely, Vishal Information Technology Ltd.
(hereafter 'Vishal') and eClerx Services Ltd. (hereafter 'eClerx') could not
be considered as comparables as the functions performed and the services
rendered by the said companies were materially different from those performed
by the Assessee.
3\. This Court, by an order dated 27th February, 2015, admitted the present
appeal and framed the following questions of law:-
> "1. Did the ITAT fall into error in the given circumstances of the case in
> confirming the transfer pricing adjustment to the extent of Rs.5,92,07,428/-
> upholding the inclusion of ITA 102/2015 Page 2 of 42 two comparable, i.e.,
> e-Clerx Services Limited and Vishal Information Technologies Limited, now
> called as Coral Hub Ltd.?
> 2\. Did the ITAT fall into error in not appreciating the terms of Rule l0B
account of using arithmetical mean of the PLI. The DRP had noted that eClerx
was functionally dissimilar, but ignored the same relying on an assumption
that the functional dissimilarity would be subsumed in the profit margin. As
noted, the content of services provided by the Assessee and the entities in
question were not similar. In addition, there were also functional
dissimilarities between the Assessee and the two entities in question. In our
view, these comparability factors could not be ignored by ITA 102/2015 Page 41
of 42 the Tribunal. While using TNMM, the search for comparables may be
broadened by including comparables offering services/products which are not
entirely similar to the controlled transaction/entity. However, this can be
done only if (a) the functions performed by the tested party and the selected
comparable entity are similar including the assets used and the risks assumed;
and (b) the difference in services/products offered has no material bearing on
the profitability.
45\. In view of the aforesaid, the questions of law framed by an order dated
27th February, 2015 are answered in the affirmative and against the Revenue.
