Delhi High Court
Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson ... vs Intex Technologies (India) ... on 13
March, 2015
Author: Manmohan Singh
    *             IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                             Judgment pronounced on: March 13, 2015
    +                   I.A. No. 6735/2014 in CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
                TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL) ..... Plaintiff
                            Through Mr.C.S. Vaidyanathan, Sr. Adv. &
                                     Mrs.Prathiba M. Singh, Sr. Adv.
                                     with Mrs.Saya Choudhary Kapur,
                                     Mr.Ashutosh Kumar, Mr.B.
                                     Prashant Kumar, Mr.Saurabh
                                     Anand and Mr.Vihan Dang, Advs.
                                  versus
                INTEX TECHNOLOGIES (INDIA) LIMITED        ..... Defendant
                            Through Mr.Saikrishna Rajgopal, with Mr.J.
                                      Sai Deepak, Ms.Savni Dutt &
                                      Ms.Rachel Mamatha and
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of rights in eight patents registered in India
alongwith damages/rendition of accounts and delivery up etc.
2\. Alongwith the plaint the plaintiff has filed the interim application being
I.A. No.6735/2014 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC. By
this order, I propose to decide the abovementioned application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 1 of 257
3\. The facts stated in the plaint The plaintiff, M/s Telefonaktiebolaget LM
Ericsson is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden who is the mother
company of the Ericsson group, which was founded in Sweden in 1876 and it is
claimed that the plaintiff is one of the largest telecommunications companies
in the world.
The Ericsson group is active in more than 180 countries having annual sales of
USD 35 Billion (approximately) for the year 2013. The Ericsson's main trade is
to provide telecom operators with best-in- class equipment and services for
telecommunications network. The Ericsson group has invested tons of billions
of US dollars in the past decade on telecommunications research and
development. In 2013 alone, the Ericsson group invested approximately USD 5
Billion on R&D.
The plaintiff's portfolio comprises of mobile and fixed network
infrastructure, telecom services, software, broadband and multimedia solutions
for operators, enterprises and the media industry. In the year 2012, the
plaintiff received awards for "Top Wireless Infrastructure Company" at the
prestigious CyberMedia ICT Business Awards, "Largest Telecom Equipment
Manufacturer" from CMAI, "Innovative Network Management Solutions" and
"Innovative Vendor Telecom Product" at the Aegis Graham Bell awards.
In the year 2013, the plaintiff won the "Challengers Award-large business" at
Frost & Sullivan 'Green Manufacturing Excellence Awards 2013' and also
received the "Best Managed Services Vendor" award at  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
2 of 257 the "7th NTA ICT World Communication Awards 2013". Last year, i.e. on
19th March, 2014, the plaintiff won an award for its LTE Broadcast solution in
the category "Best TV On The Move Service" at TV Connect in London.
4\. The suit patents relate to three technologies in the field of
telecommunications pertaining inter alia to 2G and 3G devices (mobile
handsets, tablets etc), details of which are referred to as follows for ease
of usage:
A. Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec - a feature that conserves use of
bandwidth and enhances speech quality; (AMR) B. Features in 3G phones - Multi
service handling by a Single Mobile Station & A mobile radio for use in a
mobile radio communication system; (3G) C. Enhanced Data Rates for GSM
Evolution (EDGE) - A transceiving unit for block automatic retransmission
request; (EDGE)
5\. The plaintiff has in its plaint has provided the details of the patents
and their claims raised at the time of registrations. The same are as follows
:
          S. No.      Patent                       Discussion and Analysis
         AMR PATENTS
    1.               IN203034       Linear Predictive Analysis by synthesis encoding
                                    method and encoder
This patent relates to CELP (Code Excited Linear Prediction) based encoding
method and encoder that is efficient at low bitrates (<8kbps) and which
synchronizes  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 3 of 257 its internal states with those
of the decoder. The present patent decreases the number of bits required to
encode a frame while maintaining the synchronization between internal states
of encoder and decoder as two or more sub-frames are encoded together. Thus,
it improves speech quality and compression performance.
In the conventional LPAS encoders, each speech sub- frame was encoded
separately in order to ensure synchronization between encoder and decoder as a
result of which the said encoders did not work efficiently for bit rates of
8kbps or lower.
Claims 1-7 relate to simultaneous coding method of two or more sub-frames and
claims 8-14 relate to the encoder that can simultaneously encode two or more
sub-frames while maintaining the internal synchronization with the decoder.
2\. IN203036 Apparatus for producing from an original speech signal a
plurality of parameters The patent relates to improved coding criteria for
accommodating noise like signals at lowered bit rates. In the conventional
encoders when CELP is used, if bit rates go below 8 kbps, the ability of the
encoder to do waveform matching of non-periodic noise like unvoiced speech and
background noise suffers thereby affecting the efficiency. In order to
overcome the same, different coding mode (e.g., energy matching) was used for
unvoiced speech and background noise. The drawback with this approach was the
need for mode decision, for example, choosing waveform matching mode for
voiced speech and choosing energy matching mode for noise- like signals like
unvoiced speech and background noise. The mode decision is sensitive and
causes annoying artifacts when wrong. Also, the drastic change of coding
strategy between modes can cause unwanted sounds.
The patent advantageously combines waveform matching and energy matching
criteria into one criterion to improve the coding of noise-like signals at
lowered bit rates without the disadvantages of multi-mode coding thereby
avoiding the problem of wrong mode decisions.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 4 of 257
Claims 1-13 relate to a speech encoding apparatus that combines the waveform
and energy matching criteria as one.
3\. IN234157 A method of encoding/ decoding multi-codebook fixed bitrate CELP
signal block Conventionally, CELP speech coders typically use codebooks to
store excitation vectors that are intended to excite synthesis filters to
produce a synthetic speech signal. For high bitrates these codebooks contain a
large variety of excitation vectors to cope with a large spectrum of sound
types. However, at low bit rates, for example around 4-7 Kbits/ s, the number
of bits available for the codebook index is limited, which means that the
number of vectors to choose from must be reduced. Therefore, low bit rate
coders will have a codebook structure that is a compromise between accuracy
and richness. Such coders will give fair speech quality for some types of
sound and barely acceptable quality for other types of sound.
The patent overcomes this drawback by using several different equal size
codebooks. Each codebook is weak for some signals, but the other codebooks do
not share this weakness for those signals. By deterministically (without
regard to signal type) switching between these codebooks from speech block to
speech block, the coding quality is significantly improved for low bitrates.
Further, bandwidth is also saved as there is no need to transfer information
on which codebook was selected for a particular speech block, since both
encoder and decoder use the same deterministic switching algorithm.
Claims 1-11 relate to a method of encoding/ decoding a signal block as per
CELP by using multiple codebooks, claims 12-18 relate to an encoder/ decoder
that uses the aforesaid claimed method, claims 19-21 relate to a method for
selection of appropriate codebook, claims 22-24 relates to an encoder/ decoder
that uses the patented method for selection of appropriate code book whereas
claim 25 relates to a codebook structure which ensures that different
codebooks do not share the same weakness.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 5 of 257
4\. IN203686 Method and system for alternating transmission of codec mode
information When AMR codec is used, voice signals/ data can be transmitted at
8 different bit rates between two transceivers. In order to ensure efficient
transmission and proper encoding/ decoding it is imperative that information
pertaining to the coding modes which are being used is also shared/
transferred either beforehand or simultaneously by the transceivers. The
present patent generally relates to mode handling in the field of
communication systems and, more particularly, to handling the transmission of
information associated with requesting and identifying coding modes in digital
communication systems that support multiple speech/ forward error correction
coding schemes.
The present patent relates to mode indicators which reflect the transmitter's
currently employed speech coding/ channel coding combination and mode requests
which reflect the receiver's request for a particular speech coding/ channel
coding mode to be employed. For example, when channel conditions are good, the
receiver may send a mode request in the uplink for a speech coding/ channel
coding mode which provides for a high source coding bit rate and a relatively
low degree of error protection. When the transmitter transmits information
using the requested mode, it will also include a corresponding mode indicator
in its downlink transmissions; Thus, mode indicators and mode requests are
communicated between transmitting and receiving entities to enable variable
codec mode operation.
Claims 1-25 are method claims whereas claims 26-47 are system claims.
5\. IN213723 Method and apparatus for generating comfort noise in a speech
decoder When a call is made on many occasions during a conversation there is
silence on one end. In order to ensure that when there is a silence, the
receiver of the call is informed that the source of the call is not yet
disconnected, a comfort noise is generated as per the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 6 of 257 background noise at the callers end. In conventional methods,
either the background noises are transmitted continuously by using lower bit
rates (this leads to occupation of bandwidth) or in a conventional
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) the transmitter sends speech parameters
suitable for generation of comfort noise in the decoder at regular intervals
of time. These parameters for comfort noise generation (CNG) are
conventionally coded into what is sometimes called Silence Descriptor (SID)
frames. However, comfort noise produced in such a manner is static.
The present patent relates to speech coding wherein artificial background
noise is produced during periods of speech inactivity. The aforesaid
disadvantages associated with conventional comfort noise generation are
overcome by modifying the comfort noise parameters at regular intervals based
on properties of actual background noise experienced at the encoder. Comfort
noise generated from the modified parameters is perceived as less static than
conventionally generated comfort noise, and more similar to the actual
background noise experienced at the encoder.
Claims 1-16 relate to the method for generating comfort noise by modifying the
comfort noise parameters and claims 17-25 relate to the apparatus which
produces such modified comfort noise parameters.
3G PATENTS
6\. IN229632 Multi service handling by a Single Mobile Station Mobile stations
have to support several different types of services such as speech, voice and
file transfers simultaneously despite the fact that they have different
support requirements. Prior to the present patent while supporting multi-
services, either the quality pertaining to each service was compromised or
huge amount of bandwidth was utilized leading to inefficient functioning of
the network.
The present patent overcomes these short comings with a method for processing
multiple data services over a  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 7 of 257 communication
link between a Mobile Station and a Base Station:
\- First a plurality of radio bearer services are processed and the data
within the radio bearers is separated into a plurality of data blocks;
\- Separated data blocks are combined with other data blocks from services
having similar Quality of Services requirement into a transmission block for
transmission on a single logical/ transport channel;
\- Data blocks within the transmission blocks may be prioritized such that
high priority data blocks are transmitted prior to low priority data blocks;
Thus, the present patent provides flexibility in the manner in which radio
bearers are mapped onto logical/ transport channels to enable the efficient
management of various services mixes without exceeding the mobile stations set
power levels.
Claims 1-9 relate to a mobile station that can process multiple data services
simultaneously with efficiency as detailed above.
7\. IN240471 A mobile radio for use in a mobile radio communication system The
present patent relates to a mobile device being used for generating parameter
(signal strength, signal quality etc) report which is transmitted to a radio
network dependent on a trigger (happening of a certain event etc) which then
processes the data inter alia to determine a suitable candidate for a handover
operation between two base stations (towers) in order to ensure continuous
effective transmission.
Claim 1-31 relate to a mobile radio that can inter alia electronically measure
handover related parameters, prepare reports in respect of same and transmit
the same to a network when a pre-determined condition or event is triggered.
EDGE PATENT  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 8 of 257
8\. IN241747 A transceiving omit unit for block automatic retransmission
request The present patent generally relates to error handling in the field of
communication systems and, more particularly, to error handling using
automatic retransmission requests (ARQ) in digital communication systems that
support multiple FEC (Forward Error Correction) coding and/ or modulation
schemes;
This patent overcomes the drawbacks and limitations associated with
conventional methods and systems for communicating information by adjusting
one or both of the modulation and FEC coding used to prepare information for
blocks to be retransmitted. Thus, the probability that the retransmitted block
is received erroneously is highly reduced and overall system performance is
improved.
Claims 1-8 relate to a transceiving unit that handles error correction using
ARQs in systems that support FEC coding/ modulation.
6\. The plaintiff contends that the plaintiff's suit patents correspond to
standards that have also been adopted in India as per the Department of
Telecommunications. The AMR Patents (AMR Speech Codecs) and the 3G Patents
correspond to mandatory portions of the 3G standard, to which 3G-enabled
devices must adhere. The plaintiff has also performed testing on the
defendant's representative 3G enabled devices. The said testing confirms that
the defendant's 3G enabled device uses AMR speech codecs as defined in the
relevant standard of ETSI for 3G technology. The EDGE Patent, also correspond
to optional, but widely implemented, portions of the 2G/ EDGE standard, to
which 2G-enabled devices must adhere. The plaintiff has tested  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 9 of 257 representative 2G-enabled devices of the defendant
for AMR functionality and found all the tested devices to be infringing in
nature. The plaintiff also tested some of the EDGE compliant devices of the
defendant to establish that the same are infringing in nature.
7\. The defendant sells/markets multiple models of phones/ telecommunication
devices (tablets, dongles etc.) in India under the brands 'INTEX'. The
defendant has incorporated the suit patents in numerous of its mobile
handsets/ devices in the past and continues to do the same.
8\. The abovementioned patents are "Standard Essential Patents" in the field
of telecommunication and are mandatorily required and used for the
implementation of the concerned technologies including 2G and 3G technologies.
The plaintiff, in the light of the FRAND commitment made by it to various
Standard Setting Organizations including ETSI (European Telecommunication
Standards Institute) fairly offered a license for its entire portfolio of
patents (including the suit patents) which are essential for 2G and 3G
technologies to the defendant. However, despite being put to notice since
December 2008, the defendant has failed to obtain licenses from the plaintiff
for its Standard Essential Patents (hereinafter SEPs) including the suit
patents. The plaintiff contends that from 2008 onwards till the filing of the
present suit, though the defendant has always averred and in fact continues to
state that it is willing to discuss and enter into a FRAND license with the
plaintiff, however the same is not reflected in the defendant's conduct
inasmuch, despite repeated requests made by  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 10 of
257 the plaintiff, the defendant has failed to constructively negotiate a
license agreement with the plaintiff and despite admitting that the plaintiff
is the owner of SEPs which are necessarily employed and used by the defendant
in various telecommunication devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.) being
sold by it under its brand, no feasible offer has been made by the defendant.
9\. The plaintiff in the plaint has explained the upto date history of
telecommunications - PSTN, 1G etc. which are detailed as under :
i) Prior to the 1980's, landlines were being used in India/ world for
communicating via a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) by which calls
could be made. Wires were necessarily required for this mode of communication.
Thereafter, in the 1980's wireless communication technology (cellular phones)
was developed which was known as the First Generation (1G) system where
analogue radio signals were used solely for voice communication.
ii) When mobile systems came to be evolved (analog cellular networks) there
was no uniform standard being followed internationally, as a result of which
technologies and protocols varied from country to country.
iii) In order to overcome the drawbacks of different standards and protocols,
which varied from country to country, in 1982 CEPT established GSM (Global
System for Mobile Communications, in French Groupe Spécial Mobile) to
formulate and develop common standards for European networks. In 1987, GSM was
made a mandatory standard for European Union and in 1989, GSM work was  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 11 of 257 transferred from CEPT to the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) which had been established in
1989 for defining specifications for mobile systems.
iv) In 1990, phase I of the GSM specifications were published. Those
specifications laid the foundation for the Second Generation (2G) cellular
system. The 2G system was the first digital system to introduce voice, SMS,
and data services together. By 1998, the GSM specifications had expanded to
include packet data transport through GPRS (General Packet Radio Services),
and, by 1999, to include EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution, or
EGPRS) as well as AMR.
v) In 1998, an Organization known as 3GPP (Third Generation Partnership
Project) was established internationally to make globally- applicable, 3G
mobile phone system specifications based on GSM. In 2000, UMTS/ WCDMA
(Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/ Wideband Code Division Multiple
Access), also popularly known as the Third Generation (3G) cellular system,
was developed. In later years, enhancements to this cellular system were made
through HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access), HSUPA (High Speed Uplink
Packet Access), and other technologies, collectively known as 3.5G or 3G+. In
2008 and onwards, LTE (Long Term Evolution) systems and standards were
developed for wireless communication of high-speed data. LTE is popularly
known as the Fourth Generation (4G) cellular system.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 12 of 257
10\. It is averred in the plaint that basic difference among the aforesaid
various systems/ technologies (1G, 2G, 3G, 3.5G & 4G) is the speed and ability
to transfer data more efficiently. Currently, 3GPP is responsible for bringing
together various standardization institutes (including ETSI), network
providers, telecommunication equipment manufacturers, and service providers
from across the world, to develop telecommunications standards. Those
standards are imperative to maintain interoperability between mobile devices
(handsets, tablets etc) and mobile networks in respect of various technologies
like 2G, 3G, 3.5G, and 4G.
Technical specifications that define a particular system (for eg: 2G, 3G etc)
and manner of its operation/ functioning are adopted by 3GPP through consensus
amongst equipment manufacturers, service providers, telephone operators,
national and international regulating authorities. Those specifications are
mandatory for that particular technology in order to ensure interoperability
and are regarded as the Industry Standard.
In telecommunications, GSM/ GPRS/ EDGE standards represent 2G technology,
although GPRS standards are sometimes referred to as 2.5G technology, and
EGPRS or EDGE standards are sometimes referred to as 2.75G technology. UMTS/
WCDMA standards represent 3G technology. Mobile devices (handsets, tablets
etc) that comply with the GSM standards are called 2G devices, mobile devices
that comply with the UMTS/ WCDMA standards are called 3G devices, and so on.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 13 of 257
The most, if not all, 3G devices comply with 2G as well, in order to
interoperate with 2G networks when 3G networks are unavailable.
11\. It is alleged in the plaint that if a patent covers a particular
component/ element/ device/ method etc corresponding to a technical
specification (TS teaches what is to be done and how it is to be performed)
for a technology that forms a part of a standard, the patent is regarded as an
essential patent for such standard. An essential patent can be said to be a
patent that corresponds to an industry standard. The same standard is mutually
agreed by various service providers, equipment manufacturers etc to be
mandatorily implemented for a particular technology (such standards are
recognized and implemented by the concerned government authority as well). It
is meant to ensure that complete compatibility is achieved. It is impossible
to claim compatibility with a technology (as defined by the concerned
standards) without actually infringing the specific patent (and hence the
requirement to obtain a license).
12\. In order to avoid a situation whereby standards cannot be effectively
implemented due to existence of such patents - patentees of such essential
patents have broadly committed to FRAND (Fair, Reasonable and Non-
discriminatory) licensing. FRAND is a balance between ensuring the
availability of an open, global standard to a new entrant and incentivizing
development of that standard by rewarding those who contributed to the
standard with their R&D. The plaintiff supports FRAND licensing. The plaintiff
has over 100 global license agreements with vendors in the telecom industry.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 14 of 257
13\. In support of its case the suit patents (related to AMR, EDGE and 3G
technologies) are essential patents and they correspond to the standards
issued by ETSI related to the aforesaid 2G and 3G technologies. The Department
of Telecommunications, India has recognized ETSI standards as approved
standards for GSM, WCDMA/ UMTS network and equipment providers and as a
consequence the same are required to be complied with by various device
importers, manufacturers, sellers etc. It is apparent from a bare perusal of
the Unified Access Services License Agreement, copy of which is being filed
with the present suit. Every telecom service provider in India has to enter
into a UASL agreement with the Government.
14\. The plaintiff has referred various documents in order to establish that
suit patents are essential patents. It is alleged that as per letter dated 3rd
October, 2008 issued by the Wireless Planning & Coordination Wing, Ministry of
Communication & Information Technology - Department of Telecommunications, has
also adopted ETSI and other international standards for GSM/WCDMA network
equipment which are to be imported in the country and as a consequence mobile
devices such as handsets, tablets etc, which are imported into India are also
required to be compliant with such standards.
15\. The relevant standards are those issued by ITU/ TEC/ 3GPP/ 3GPP2/ ETSI/
IETF/ ANSI/ EIA/ TIA/ IS. Copy of the letter is being filed with the present
suit. The relevant portion is extracted below for the sake of convenience:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 15 of 257
> "..................
> I am directed to state that while issuing import license in respect of GSM/
> CDMA network equipment, Clause 2.2(d)(i) of UASL Agreement shall be
> applicable which states that equipments should meet the relevant
> International Telecommunication Union (ITU)/ Telecommunication Engineering
> Center (TEC)/ International Standardization bodies such as 3GPP/ 3GPP2/
> ETSI/ IETF/ ANSI/ EIA/ TIA/ IS ........................"
16\. The plaintiff stressed in its submissions that as the aforesaid ETSI
standards are mandatorily implemented in India. The suit patents correspond to
these standards and are thus essential patents, any device (mobile handsets,
tablets etc) that incorporates these features of AMR, EDGE or 3G -
automatically infringe upon the Plaintiff's Suit Patents. Thus, any entity
which is importing, making, selling, offering for sale etc any devices
(handsets, tablets etc) that comply with 3G standards (as per which AMR codec
is mandatory), and/ or 2G and EDGE standards (as per which AMR codec and EDGE
features can be optionally implemented), ought to necessarily obtain a license
from the plaintiff. Otherwise, these entities are liable to be restrained from
infringing the patents.
17\. The other relevant details of the suit patents in order to know the
overall latest position are given as under :
      S. No.     Application     Title       Filing Date   Date of      Valid
                   No.&                                     Grant       upto
                 Patent No.
    AMR Patents
         CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                         Page 16 of 257
     1.             IN/ PCT/       Linear Predictive    24.08.1999   19.10.2006   23.8.2019
                   2001/ 00260/   Analysis-by-
                   MUM -          Synthesis
                   IN'203034      Encoding Method
                                  and Encoder"
    2.             IN/ PCT/       Apparatus       of   06.08.1999   19.10.2006   5.8.2019
                   2001/ 00290/   Producing from
                   MUM -          an        Original
                   IN'203036      Speech Signal a
                                  Plurality       of
                                  Parameters
    3.             IN/ PCT/       A    Method     of   24.08.1999   07.05.2009   23.8.2019
                   2001/ 00246/   Encoding/
                   MUM -          Decoding Multi-
                   IN'234157      Code Book Fixed
                                  Bitrate     CELP
                                  Signal Block
    4.             IN/ PCT/       Method        and    03.09.1999   01.11.2006   2.9.2019
                   2001/ 00324/   System         for
                   MUM -          Alternating
                   IN'203686      Transmission of
                                  Codec       Mode
                                  Information
    5.             IN/ PCT/       Method      and 08.11.1999        10.01.2008   7.11.2019
                   2001/ 00552/   Apparatus    for
                   MUM -          Generating
                   IN'213723      Comfort Noise in
                                  a        Speech
                                  Decoder.
         3G Patents
    1.             2818/ DEL/     Multi-Service     18.09.1998      19.02.2009   17.9.2018
                   1998 -         Handling by a
                   IN'229632      Single     Mobile
                                  Station
            CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                                  Page 17 of 257
     2.                IN/ PCT/          A Mobile Radio 09.05.2000      12.05.2010   8.5.2020
                      2001/ 01411/      for Use in a
                      MUM -             Mobile   Radio
                      IN'240471         Communications
                                        System.
         EDGE Patent
    1.                2490/ DEL/        A    Transceiving 24.08.1998   22.07.2010   23.8.2018
                      1998 -            Omit Unit for
                      IN'241747         Block Automatic
                                        Retransmission
                                        Request
18\. Many allegations are made by the plaintiff against the defendant in the
plaint that the defendant continues to market and sell various infringing
mobile phones/devices. As detailed above, the AMR Patents (AMR Speech Codecs)
and 3G Patents correspond to mandatory portions of the 3G standard, to which
3G-enabled devices must adhere. The said patents are employed by the defendant
in its various 3G-enabled devices. The AMR Patents, as well as the EDGE
Patent, also correspond to optional, but widely implemented, portions of the
2G standard and the EDGE standard, to which 2G/ EDGE-enabled devices must
adhere. It is alleged that the plaintiff procured certain handsets being sold
by the defendant (listed below) and performed in- house testing to gauge
whether the Suit Patents are being infringed by the said handset devices or
not. The test reports prove that those are infringed by the defendants.
19\. In order to satisfy its claim at this stage, the plaintiff has relied
upon test reports of handset models of the defendant would show that the
aforesaid listed products being imported, manufactured/  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 18 of 257 assembled, offered for sale, advertised or sold by the
defendant are infringing in nature. The same has been placed on record of the
case. The following tests were conducted:
a. Use of AMR Codecs (Mandatory in 3G and supported by certain 2G models as
well) In order to verify whether a mobile device uses AMR speech codec in a 2G
network that complies with GSM standard, a lab test was conducted using the
following equipment:
\- Mobile device: Any GSM compliant mobile device which need to be tested;
\- Shielding Box (Yokogawa 733061): It is a device which is used to isolate
any test device (mobile handsets), placed inside the box, from external radio
signal interference so that it doesn't affect the test results;
\- 3rd Party Protocol Analyzers (Tektronix Main K15 Base Device V 2.95): views
and records the corresponding control signalling as well as the content
thereof;
The testing was performed internally by the plaintiff at its GSM Smartphone
lab which is equipped with a complete GSM network infrastructure and provides
the possibility to connect a mobile terminal to the test lab network via radio
communication in a non-intrusive testing way. Thus, the said lab has a fully
functional GSM network with tracing equipment to see the signalling for a
specific terminal in it. In fact, certain communication characteristics (eg:
usage of the AMR codec) can be set in the network and the communication with
the single terminal can be logged.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 19 of 257
Diagramatic set-up of the aforesaid testing Following steps were followed as
alleged by the plaintiff to test if a mobile device complies with the AMR
speech codec :
i. The AMR Active Codec Set = [4.75, 5.9, 7.95, 12.2] K Bit/ Sec was set in
the network and an originating speech call from the mobile terminal was made;
ii. The Protocol including the Bearer Capability Information Element (IE) at
call-setup and the Codec Mode Indication (CMI) commands during the call were
logged;
The information whether the AMR-codec is supported by the mobile terminal
under test (or not), can be found in the Bearer Capability IE inside the SETUP
messages sent by the mobile terminal to the network at mobile terminal call as
the mobile terminal reports which codec modes are supported and used. Thus, on
the basis of logs captured it can be confirmed whether a handset/ device
supports or uses AMR Codecs in a 2G network.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 20 of 257
b. Use of AMR Codecs in 3G (Mandatory in 3G and supported by certain 2G models
as well) As AMR Speech Codec is mandatory for a 3G compliant device, no test
report is per se necessary to establish infringement by such devices. However,
the plaintiff has performed in-house testing in order to confirm the use of
AMR codec in a 3G network as well. The details of the testing procedure
followed are as follows:
 A test was set up to show that Test UEs (UE: user equipment) use "the AMR
codec in 3G" as defined in the UMTS standard.
Test Set-Up  The test set-up comprises a UMTS-Radio Network Controller (RNC)
connected to a Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) which is connected to a phone of
a party B and to a Home Location Register (HLR). The RNC controls a UMTS base
station (NodeB) and is further connected with a Log- entity (RNC Logs). A UMTS
capable Test UE (User Equipment) is put into the coverage area of the NodeB
and a call is initiated from the Test UE via a Radio Frequency (RF) connection
between the NodeB and the UE.
The RNC Logs log the communication between the RNC and the test UE, between
RNC and MSC and between UE and MSC.
The test set-up is depicted in the below figure:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 21 of 257
Test instruction used:
Equipment used One RNC One NodeB with one single cell configured (cell A) One
Test UE One phone acting as B party for the test call. Procedure Action 1:
Activate traces in the RNC Action 2: Setup a Speech call from the Test UE to
the B party phone Action 3: Store the traces in a log file On the basis of the
captured logs it can be ascertained whether a UE supports AMR codec in a 3G
technology inasmuch as a UE indicates to the network whether it supports the
AMR codecs or not.
b. Use of 3G patents The same can be discerned from the product insert
literature and technical specifications of all the aforesaid CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 22 of 257 infringing products, which claim that they support
3G. As the 3G patents are mandatory for a 3G compliant device (mobile
handsets, tablets etc) thus no tests have been conducted qua them. However, if
need be, an infringement test for the same can be performed.
c. Use of EDGE patent As the EDGE patent is essential to the EDGE standard and
therefore necessarily infringed by an EDGE compliant device (mobile handsets,
tablets etc) - no test reports are per se required for establishing
infringement if a product claims to be EDGE compliant. However, in-house
testing was conducted by the plaintiff in order to gauge whether the
retransmitted block (which was originally erroneously transmitted) uses a
different modulation and coding scheme.
Test Environment The tests were performed in the Ericsson GSM Smartphone Lab.
This lab was equipped with a complete GSM network infrastructure and provides
the possibility to connect a mobile terminal to the test lab network via radio
communication in a non-intrusive testing way.
The figure below illustrates the basic set-up of test equipment in the GSM
Smartphone Lab:
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                       Page 23 of 257
     Equipment Used
          One BSC
          One BTS with one cell dedicated to GSM Smartphone
    Lab
          One Test UE
BSC (Base Station Controller) manages all the radio-related functions of a GSM
network. BTS (Base Transceiver Station) controls the radio interface to the
MS. The BTS comprises the radio equipment such as transceivers and antennas
which are needed to serve each cell in the network. It is controlled by a BSC.
Procedure Action 1: Activate Logging CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 24 of 257 Action
2: Start EGPRS traffic (i.e. sending an email) Action 3: Store events in a log
file The Plaintiff used an event based log tool to record all LLC PDUs sent
and received in the BSC/ PCU. The logs indicate the modulation and coding
scheme (MCS) that is used. Thus, upon studying the logs it is possible to
gauge whether a different MCS was used for retransmission of an erroneously
transmitted block.
20\. The plaintiff has also filed an affidavit of Mr.Vijay Ghate, an expert
who has examined the standards, the patent specifications and the test reports
& has come to the conclusion that the Suit Patents are essential in relation
to all the relevant ETSI standards and the same will be necessarily infringed
by any device that is compliant with the said standards. The plaintiff has
placed on record the testing reports, performed in relation to the four
representative mobile devices of the defendant, along with an affidavit of Mr.
Max Olofsson. The said reports establish that the defendant is indeed
infringing the Suit Patents. The claim mapping charts in this regard are also
filed.
21\. The claim of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff has spent effort, man
power, money etc. on research and development in the field of
telecommunication. The plaintiff on its part has been constantly committed to
global licensing of such essential patents on FRAND terms in order to ensure
that there are no barriers in any markets. Accordingly, the plaintiff has
always fairly negotiated with different parties and also with the defendant.
Major global players have  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 25 of 257 executed license
agreements with the plaintiff and are paying the reasonable royalty.
22\. After receiving the information about the defendant who allegedly
infringed the product being imported/ offered for sale/ sold in India, the
plaintiff on 16th December, 2008 addressed a letter intimating the defendant
about the fact that the telecommunication products being sold by it infringe
various SEPs held by the plaintiff in respect of GSM and GPRS technologies, in
order to give offer to negotiate & discuss a license agreement on FRAND terms
for all of plaintiff's Standard Essential Patents.
In reply, the defendant, vide its e-mail dated 7th January, 2009, stated that
it is not aware about any significant portfolio of plaintiff's patents in
India that are essential for compliance by the defendant, however, the
defendant agreed to meet on this aspect. The plaintiff thereafter gave the
defendant an example list of the standard essential patents owned by the
plaintiff in India. The plaintiff asked the defendant to sign a Non-Disclosure
Agreement ("NDA") so as to facilitate exchange of confidential information
(claim chart mapping, infringement analysis etc.) in entering into a FRAND
license with the plaintiff.
23\. The defendant initially refused to enter into an NDA despite which the
plaintiff held various meetings with the defendant to discuss its FRAND
licensing program. But despite meeting, the defendant did not enter into the
NDA.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 26 of 257
24\. The plaintiff, thereafter by its letter dated 16th December, 2011, again
requested the defendant to enter into a licensing agreement with the plaintiff
on FRAND terms for the SEPs portfolio of the plaintiff. The defendant in its
reply letter dated 19th January, 2012, at the first instance, submitted before
the plaintiff that the defendant was not a manufacturer of mobile phones as it
is merely selling/ trading them under its brand name and thus cannot be held
liable for infringement of patents. The plaintiff in its reply letter dated
26th January, 2012 clarified that the defendant is legally liable to obtain a
license from plaintiff despite the fact that it is not manufacturing the
infringing products but was selling the same and the defendant was invited to
negotiate a license agreement on FRAND terms with the plaintiff. The plaintiff
negotiated with the defendant under the aegis of Indian Cellular Association
("ICA"). Even after the aforesaid efforts by the plaintiff, the defendant
failed to show any serious intention of entering into a patent license
agreement with the plaintiff.
After repeated attempts by the plaintiff, on 11th April, 2013, the defendant
finally signed the NDA (after a lapse of over four years). The plaintiff
allegedly provided more information to the defendant and its liability to take
license in respect of the plaintiff's SEPs. The plaintiff thereafter supplied
the term sheet to the defendant vide email dated 23rd April, 2013 prior to
their meeting dated 29th April, 2013. During the course of another meeting
which was held between both the parties on 23rd May, 2013, the plaintiff
explained its SEP portfolio, the standardization process, etc. The defendant
requested the plaintiff to  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 27 of 257 provide a
revised patent license arrangement. Thereafter, the Plaintiff drafted a
written offer based on the discussion held on 23rd May, 2013, and provided the
same to the defendant. In reply, the defendant, however, proposed a counter
offer which was different, as per the plaintiff, from the in-principle
agreement reached in the meeting between both the parties on 23rd May, 2013.
25\. It is submitted that the plaintiff alleges that on one hand the defendant
continued to engage in correspondence with the plaintiff and on the other hand
multifarious proceedings were initiated by the defendant against the plaintiff
before the Competition Commission of India and the Intellectual Property
Appellate Board (IPAB) in the months of August-September, 2013, for revocation
of the plaintiff's suit patent. The net result is that the defendant did not
respond positively to any of the proposals offered by the plaintiff.
26\. The plaintiff became aware about the aforesaid proceedings in the month
of January, 2014 which indicates that the defendant was unwilling to enter
into a license agreement, the plaintiff vide its letter dated 28th March, 2014
concluded that the defendant had effectively ended the licensing talks with
the plaintiff. Thereafter, certain emails/ letters have been exchanged between
the parties without any fruitful outcome and the plaintiff believes that the
defendant lacks the bonafide intention to execute a FRAND license.
27\. The details of the revocation petition filed by the defendant before the
IPAB are as follows:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 28 of 257
> Patent No. sought to be Filing Date Original Application No. revoked ORA/
> 25/ 2013/ PT/ MUM/ 9896 213723 23.08.2013 ORA/ 26/ 2013/ PT/ MUM/ 9892
> 203036 23.08.2013 ORA/ 24/ 2013/ PT/ MUM/ 10089 203034 23.08.2013 ORA/ 27/
> 2013/ PT/ MUM/ 10097 203686 23.08.2013 ORA/ 23/ 2013/ PT/ MUM/ 10085 234157
> 23.08.2013
28\. The defendant has also filed a Complaint/Information before the
Competition Commission of India ("CCI") alleging abuse of dominance by the
plaintiff. The said complaint was filed by the defendant on 30th September,
2014. The said complaint is registered as Case No.76/2013. Both the aforesaid
proceedings were initiated by the defendant during the period when the
licensing negotiations were still on-going between the parties.
29\. It is alleged by the plaintiff that the defendant has taken two different
stands, i.e. as in the complaint/ information before the CCI is based that the
plaintiff patents are valid and essential as a result of which the defendant
is bound to seek a license from the plaintiff whereas before the IPAB the
defendant has challenged the validity of five SEPs of the plaintiff. The
defendant did not disclose before the CCI that it had already filed five
revocation petitions before the IPAB. By its order dated 16th January, 2014
the CCI had ordered an investigation against the plaintiff on the basis of
allegations made by  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 29 of 257 the defendant in its
complaint before the CCI. The said order dated 16th January, 2014 was
challenged by the plaintiff by filing a writ petition, being W.P (C) No.1006/
2014, before this Court on inter alia the ground that the order passed by the
CCI was arbitrary in nature and without jurisdiction. That on 17th February,
2014 the Writ Court directed that whilst the Director General (D.G) of the
Competition Commission of India ("CCI") may call for information from the
plaintiff, no final report shall be submitted by the Director General and no
final orders shall be passed by the CCI in Case No.76 of 2013. The Writ Court
also directed that no officer of the plaintiff Company, stationed abroad,
shall be called upon by the D.G for the purpose of investigation. The Writ
Court also ordered that the observations made by the CCI in its order dated
16th January, 2014 shall not come in the way of the plaintiff negotiating with
the third parties or in the adjudication proceeding filed by either of the
parties.
30\. Thereafter, the defendant had filed a Letters Patent Appeal i.e. LPA
No.255/ 2014 challenging the Single Judge order dated 17th February, 2014. The
said appeal was disposed of by the Division Bench of this Court vide its order
dated 24th March, 2014 whereby the Single Judge's order was modified to the
extent that the D.G. was permitted to call any officer of the plaintiff
Company, stationed abroad, for the purpose of investigation in India.
The plaintiff alleges that there is an admission on the part of defendant that
there are essential patents in its pleading i.e. complaint made before CCI and
further proceedings emanating thereof.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 30 of 257
31\. The portions of the said complaint have been relied upon by the plaintiff
who says that the defendant has admitted that the plaintiff is the owner of
SEPs which the said defendant uses in its telecommunication devices.
32\. The plaintiff contends that even in the petitions filed before the IPAB,
seeking revocation of the plaintiff's five SEPs, the defendant has alleged
that all the said five patents "directly relates to the business of
defendant".
Thus, it is alleged by the plaintiff that the defendant's infringing device
models keep changing on a frequent basis. Thus, the Plaintiff's relief qua
infringement of the suit patents is against such devices that incorporate the
patented technology/ system/ component/ apparatus and are not limited to
specific models detailed in the plaint.
33\. The plaintiff has earlier initiated the proceedings against third parties
related to the suit patents. In fact, it was pointed that the two suits for
patent infringement being CS (OS) No.442 of 2013 & CS(OS) No.2010/ 2013 have
been instituted by the plaintiff against Micromax Informatics Ltd. and Gionee
Communication Equipment Co. Ltd & Anr. and the same are pending before this
Court. It is submitted that a distributor of Micromax Informatics Limited has
also filed six revocation petitions before the Intellectual Property Appellate
Board. In CS(OS) No.442/ 2013, by virtue of an interim arrangement, the
defendant No.2 has agreed to deposit royalty rates before this Court.
34\. Similarly, in CS(OS) No.2010/ 2013, by virtue of an interim arrangement,
this Court has directed the defendant therein to make  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 31 of 257 deposit agreed royalty rates before this Court. Copies of the
interim arrangement orders passed in the both the suits are being filed in the
present proceeding. The plaintiff had also filed an infringement suit being
CS(OS) No.68/ 2012 against Kingtech Electronics (India) Pvt. Ltd. in relation
to the AMR Patents. The Defendant in the said suit has given an undertaking
that it will not import in India any mobile phone using AMR Speech Codec
Technology as claimed.
35\. It is submitted that in view of non-cooperative attitude of the
defendant, the plaintiff has been left with no recourse but to pursue the
present infringement action before this Court seeking remedy of inter alia
permanent injunction against the defendant in order to restrain the defendant
to cease importing, manufacturing/ assembling, marketing, advertising,
selling, offering for sale etc in India any product which infringes the
Plaintiff's suit patents for AMR, 3G and EDGE technology/ apparatus/ devices
and the defendant is liable to pay damages for all the devices (which
incorporated the patented technology/ devices/ apparatus) sold by the
defendant post the date of publication of the suit patent applications as per
section 11A of the Patents Act, 1970 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act").
Details of 11A publication of the suit patents are as follows:
           S. No.             Patent number               Publication date
                                                             U/ S 11A
            1.         IN 203034                      11.11.2005
            2.         IN 203036                      23.09.2005
        CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                             Page 32 of 257
              3.         IN 213723                      7.07.2006
             4.         IN 234157                      6.01.2006
             5.         IN 203686                      19.08.2005
             6.         IN 240471                      26.08.2005
             7.         IN 229632                      14.07.2006
             8.         IN 241747                      10.10.2008
36\. By virtue of Section 48 of the Act till the term of validity of the suit
patents, the plaintiff is entitled to prevent any third party who does not
have its permission from the act of making, using, offering for sale, selling
or importing for those purposes an infringing product in India. As a result,
in order to prevent the defendant from infringing its patent rights, the
plaintiff is instituting the present suit.
37\. It is alleged by the plaintiff that sales of the defendant qua the
infringing devices (handsets, tablets etc) would run into Crores of Rupees as
millions of units would have been sold by the said defendant. The turnover
figures of the defendant as is publicly available is as follows:
          YEAR                  ESTIMATED TURNOVER OF DEFENDANT
          2007-08               335 Crores
          2008-09 & Q1 of 622 Crores
          2009-10
          2009 - 10             443 Crores
          (Q2-Q4)
          2010 - 11             737 Crores
         CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                         Page 33 of 257
            2011 - 12            783 Crores
           2012 - 13            1074   Crores
38\. It is submitted that the plaintiff does not have the exact sales figures
and revenue details of the defendant qua the infringing models/ device/
handsets and is estimating the amount of damages it would be entitled to at
Rs.56 Crores.
39\. The other relief claimed by the plaintiff is that the defendant is also
liable to render accounts of sales of all the infringing products which it has
imported and sold since the date of Section 11A publication in the Patents
Journal of the Suit patent Applications. The plaintiff reserves its right to
claim damages as per sales revenues that may be disclosed by the defendant for
the previous years and for the subsequent years, during the validity of the
suit patents.
DEFENCE
40\. The defendant has filed its written statement who has also challenged the
validity of the suit patents in the written statement. Separate revocation
petitions before the Appellate Board are also filed before filing the present
suit. The main defence raised by the defendant in the written statement is
that:-
(i) Under the Act, the validity of a patent must be first established before
the issue of infringement is considered by the Court.
(ii) Section 13(4) of the Act has been interpreted by the Supreme Court to
mean that no patent which is granted in India enjoys presumptive validity
owing to the mere factum of grant.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 34 of 257
(iii) The caveat in Section 13(4) of the Act has been interpreted as an
obligation on the part of a patentee to establish the validity of his patent
in the Plaint before he proceeds to address the issue of infringement.
(iv) It is submitted that the defendant's prior-filed revocation petitions and
three other revocation petitions represent a serious challenge to the validity
of the plaintiff's Suit patents. Thus, no relief can be granted to the
Plaintiff. Therefore, until the issue of validity is not conclusively
adjudicated upon, the plaintiff is not entitled to the grant of any relief by
this Court.
(v) The defendant has challenged five of the Suit patents, the so-
> called "AMR patents", and the other three Suit patents, the so called "EDGE/
> 3G patents" are being challenged, on multiple substantive grounds under
> Section 64 of the Act including for lack of patentability, lack of novelty,
> lack of inventive step, non- compliance with Section 8 of the Act, fraud on
> the Indian Patent Office and insufficiency of disclosure. The violation of
> Section 8 is a substantive violation of the Act since it establishes breach
> of the duty of trust cast on the patent applicant by the Act. The violation
> of Section 8 is fatal to the existence of a patent. Section 8 of the Act has
> two sub-sections. The first sub-section requires a patent applicant to
> submit a statement to the Controller of Patents within the prescribed period
> setting out detailed particulars of contemporaneous patent applications
> which were filed by the patent applicant or someone deriving  CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 35 of 257 title from the applicant in other jurisdictions
> with respect to the same or substantially the same invention. Under the same
> sub- section, it also requires him to give an undertaking to the Controller
> that he would keep the Controller informed in writing, from time to time, of
> detailed particulars in respect of such foreign applications, if any of them
> is filed subsequent to the filing of the Indian application. Under the
> second sub-section of Section 8, whenever the Controller seeks details of
> examination of foreign applications, the patent applicant shall furnish them
> within the prescribed time period. The object of both sub- sections of
> Section 8 is to enable the Controller of Patents/ Indian Patent Office to
> have access to the material placed before foreign Patent Offices by the
> applicant. Every Suit patents have been obtained by suppression or non-
> disclosure of information under Section 8, thereby committing a fraud on the
> Indian Patent Office.
(vi) The defendant has given the details of challenge of each patents
separately in the written statement.
41\. It is alleged by the defendant that the plaintiff has not disclosed to
this Court that in 2011, the plaintiff instituted a suit in the Court of Rome
against Z.T.E Italy S.R.L. (Italy), a subsidiary of the ZTE Corporation (a
Chinese multinational telecommunication equipment major) for alleged
infringement of the plaintiff's SEPs covering GSM and EDGE technologies, the
very same technologies which form the subject-matter of the plaintiff's claim
in the instant Suit. The facts of  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 36 of 257 the
dispute between the plaintiff and Z.T.E are similar to the facts of the
instant Suit. The plaintiff and ZTE had been negotiating the terms of the
license for use of the plaintiff's SEPs covering GSM and EDGE technologies,
however both parties could not agree on the terms of the license.
Subsequently, the plaintiff sued Z.T.E for alleged infringement of its SEPs
and sought an interim injunction from the Court of Rome against ZTE. The Court
of Rome, in the first instance as well as in appeal, rejected all of
Ericsson's claims. With specific regard to the plaintiff's prayer for interim
injunction therein, the Court of Rome challenged the very presumption of
"essentiality" of the patents asserted by the plaintiff. The Court of Rome
categorically observed that in order to assess the claim of essentiality, it
was necessary to examine the patents, which was too complex an analysis for
the purposes of interim proceedings. Further, the Court of Rome held that even
if it were to be assumed that the patents asserted were indeed "essential",
the plaintiff would not suffer from irreparable harm since the primary issue
between the parties was essentially pecuniary in nature, which was
quantifiable and compensable by way of damages. Consequently, the plaintiff's
prayer for interim injunction was dismissed. In appeal too, the Court of Rome
held that there would be no loss of value due to alleged infringement, and
that the plaintiff could establish its case at trial. An article on the said
case enumerating the above facts has been filed herewith. Ultimately, in
January 2012, the plaintiff had to drop all suits instituted against ZTE and
settle the matter.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 37 of 257
42\. Similarly, in yet another suit proceedings instituted by the plaintiff
with respect to the same portfolio of AMR patents in France against TCT Mobile
Ltd. (another Chinese multinational telecommunication equipment major) for
alleged infringement of the plaintiff's alleged SEPs on the GSM technology,
the French Court rejected the Plaintiff's prayer for injunction therein, on
grounds that the holder of patents that are essential to the implementation of
a standard, must license its technology under mandatory contractual conditions
called FRAND terms i.e. Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory terms.
43\. In a complaint filed by a Philadelphia-based company TruePosition Inc.,
it has been alleged that the Plaintiff has exerted undue influence over ETSI
to block other more competent technologies from being declared as essential,
and to have its own unproven technologies declared as "technology standards".
44\. It is submitted that a patentee who claims that his patents are standard
essential has a duty to establish his claim of essentiality. The Suit patents
in the present case are inconsistent with the specificity of claim-mapping
endorsed and undertaken by the Plaintiff with respect to some of its own other
patents. Therefore, the Plaintiff has clearly applied double standards with
respect to the Suit Patents and other patents owned by it to the detriment of
the defendant. Until this onus is discharged by the plaintiff, its claim of
essentiality is a mere representation which has no basis in facts.
Therefore, the plaintiff cannot rely on its assertion that its patents are
standard essential to discharge its burden with respect to the  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 38 of 257 allegation of infringement. In other words, since
the plaintiff has not been able to establish that the Suit Patents are indeed
standard essential, the defendant's compliance with ETSI standards cannot be
used to prove infringement.
45\. As the plaintiff's Suit patents claim computer programmes per se, which
as stated earlier is ineligible subject-matter of patent protection under
Section 3(k) of the Act, the plaintiff needs to establish that the source code
employed in the defendant's products is the same as the plaintiff's source
code. In the plaint or supporting documents, the plaintiff has failed to
discharge its burden. The entire claim of the plaintiff's rests on the alleged
essentiality of its Suit patents to ETSI GSM standards, which is far from
established and is based solely on the plaintiff's own averments.
46\. It is submitted that the plaintiff in its plaint urging before the Court
to presume that as the Department of Telecom (DoT) has recognized ETSI
standards, the plaintiff's patents are essential for their compliance and that
such patents are valid. The plaintiff is expected to identify the specific
inventive step from its claims and establish that every essential embodiment
of its claims have been used and hence infringed by the defendant. There is
not a whisper of such analysis in the plaint. Merely stating that "AMR is
mandatory for 3G compliance" has no meaning unless the plaintiff proves that
the entire spectrum of technology standards which relate to AMR are covered by
the plaintiff's patents.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 39 of 257
47\. It is the plaintiff's claim in Patent No.203686 that the 686 patent
claims use of alternating frames to transmit mode request and mode information
messages. The Plaintiff has failed to disclose that this is not the standard
applicable for 3G-compliant devices since ETSI standard TS 126 101 V3.0.0
(2000-01) prescribes use of a single frame to transmit mode request and mode
information messages. A printout of TS 126 101 V3.0.0 (2000-01) is referred in
support of the arguments and it is submitted that the plaintiff's
abovementioned patent is not mandatory for 3G devices. Thus, no infringement
of the said patent by the defendant's 2G/ 3G products has been established.
The so-called tests on the defendant's products were conducted in-house and
were restricted only to verifying the use of AMR codecs in a 2G network. Their
veracity is suspect and cannot be relied upon. The test reports at best prove
that different AMR codecs/ codec schemes are used in the products of the
defendant. They do not in any manner prove that any of the Suit patents have
been infringed. With respect to the test reports for SID frames, which appears
to have been undertaken with respect to the '723 patent, there is no proof of
comfort noise generation which is central thrust of the '723 patent. The use
of SID frames and comfort noise generation was well-known in 1992, much before
the date of priority of the '723 patent. The test reports do not establish the
specific infringement of the means used in the '723 patent since use of SID
frames and comfort noise generation techniques was well-known in the prior
art. It is submitted that the products of the defendant do not infringe the
'723 patent. The sole  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 40 of 257 basis for the
allegation of infringement is the self-serving claim of the plaintiff that its
so-called 3G patents are mandatory for a 3G-compliant device. As essentiality
has not been established, the allegation is baseless and the defendant's
products do not infringe the so-called 3G patents of the plaintiff.
48\. With respect to the alleged use of the EDGE patent, the alleged use of
multiple transmission schemes in only 2 models of the defendant has been
sought to be established, with no attempt to connect it to the claims of the
plaintiff's EDGE patent. The "EDGE patent" ('747 patent), whose validity and
essentiality have been challenged, contains the following embodiments as
claimed in Claims 1-4:
> 1\. A transceiving unit for block automatic retransmission request
> comprising:
> a receiving means (12) for receiving a negative acknowledgement signal
> indicating that a block was erroneously received;
> a dividing means (22) for selectively dividing said block into at least two
> blocks in response to said negative acknowledgement signal; and a
> retransmitting means (20) for retransmitting said at least two blocks.
> characterized in that said block was originally transmitted using a first
> modulation/ FEC coding scheme and only said at least two blocks are
> retransmitted using a second modulation/ FEC coding scheme different from
> said first modulation/ FEC coding scheme.
> 2\. The transceiving unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving means
> is a mobile station or a radio base station.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 41 of 257
> 3\. The transceiving unit as claimed in claims 1 and 2, wherein the dividing
> means is a radio base station
> 4\. The transceiving unit as claimed in claims 1 to 3, wherein the
> retransmitting means is a base transceiver station or a radio base station.
49\. The test reports of the plaintiff speak only of presence of multiple
modulation schemes, and not the specific inventive step of the '747 patent.
Multiple modulation schemes existed in prior art which even the specification
of the '747 patent categorically states. The relevant excerpt from the
Background provided in the '747 specification is as follows:-
> "An example of a communication system employing multiple modulation schemes
> is found in U.S. Pat. No.5,577,087. Therein, a technique for switching
> between 16QAM and QPSK is described. The decision to switch between
> modulation types is made based on quality measurements, however this system
> employs a constant user bit rate which means that a change in modulation
> scheme also requires a change in channel bit rate, e.g., the number of
> timeslots used to support a transmission channel."
50\. Thus, multiple modulation schemes in the defendant's products is no proof
of infringement of the 747 patent. A combined reading of Claims 1-4 and the
Background provided in the 747 specification establishes that the mobile
station or the mobile phone is merely the receiving unit, whereas the
inventive step claimed in Claim 1 is performed by the base station, which is
the dividing and the retransmitting means.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 42 of 257
51\. It is submitted that the defendant has never admitted to the validity,
essentiality and infringement of any of the Suit patents before any forum thus
far. The plaintiff's reliance on Paragraph 8.8 of the defendant's Information
is misplaced as the defendant has averred that close to 80% of the so-called
"portfolio of SEPs" held by the plaintiff have been adjudged as "non-
essential" by independent studies undertaken by multiple institutions, which
have the expertise to analyse complex issues of essentiality. It has a bulging
portfolio of SEPs, the validity or essentiality of which has not been
adjudged. It has furnished no evidence to demonstrate that its asserted
patents have also been adjudged to be valid and essential.
The Defendant at no point has admitted to the infringement of the Suit
Patents. Even, there is no finding by an independent body or a judicial forum
as to whether the Suit patents fall within the category of the over-declared
SEPs. The issue of whether the claims of the asserted Indian patents truly
read on ETSI technology standards has never been looked into by an independent
body and is adjudicated upon by a court of law. From the Defendant's
correspondence dated 29th May, 2013, 4th June, 2013, 19th June, 2013 and 14th
September, 2013, it appears that there has never been admission of the
infringement/ essentiality of the Plaintiff's Suit patents.
52\. With regard to reliance made by the plaintiff on the affidavit of the
alleged expert Mr.Vijay Ghate, the same has been challenged by the defendant
in paras 42 to 44 of the written statement and it is submitted that the
alleged "expert" has been tutored to parrot the stance taken by  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 43 of 257 the Plaintiff. Further, despite being supplied
with the test reports by the Plaintiff, Mr. Ghate has not expressed any view
on the test results. In light of these facts, no value or credibility can be
imputed to the affidavit filed by the so-called expert Mr. Ghate or the test
reports. It is also submitted that the entire conduct of the Plaintiff with
respect to the negotiations prior to the institution of the Suit falls within
the meaning of "abuse of dominance" under Section 4 of the Competition Act,
2002. It is stated that all relevant facts and factors which prove abuse of
dominance by the Plaintiff have been placed before the Competition Commission
of India ("CCI") vide Information dated 30th September, 2013 ("Information").
53\. Pursuant to the Information the CCI directed an investigation with
respect to the abusive conduct of the Plaintiff vide order dated 16th January,
2014.
54\. The Plaintiff has never fairly negotiated with the Defendant. The
prospective licensee cannot be expected to merely accept the licensor's
representation that the terms being offered to him are indeed non-
discriminatory. The assertion of the patentee/ Plaintiff, that there are more
than 100 licensees with whom licenses have been concluded, is of no
consequence as the first requirements are that the terms offered shall be
"Fair and Reasonable" and not merely "Non- discriminatory" and "fairness and
reasonableness" taking into account the prevalent conditions in the relevant
market and actual financial implications for licensees.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 44 of 257
55\. The correspondence establishes beyond doubt that the Defendant cannot be
branded an unwilling licensee since it is the Plaintiff's burden to prove that
despite the latter's conduct and terms being fair, reasonable, and non-
discriminatory, the Defendant wilfully chose to be intransigent and
unreasonable by not securing a license. Since the correspondence proves that
the Plaintiff's conduct was far from being FRAND-compliant, it does not lie in
the mouth of the Plaintiff to declare the Defendant as an "unwilling
licensee". The sole objective of denying information relating to its patents,
such as a complete list of applicable standard essential patents (SEPs), claim
charts establishing the essentiality of such SEPs, and their alleged
infringement by the Defendant, the Plaintiff demanded the Defendant to enter
into a Non- Disclosure Agreement (NDA) as a condition precedent to sharing of
information with the Defendant. Despite several objections and reservations,
the Defendant was left with no choice but to sign the NDA. The Plaintiff's
allegation that the Defendant is an unwilling licensee is categorically denied
as blatant falsehood.
Thus, the claim is one for damages, which can be compensated if Plaintiff
succeeds at trial. Simply put, no irreparable harm would be caused to the
Plaintiff by non-grant of an interim injunction.
56\. At the interim stage since mere registration is not proof of its
validity. For the purposes of the instant Suit, the Defendant has invoked
Section 107 of the Act and placed express reliance on its revocation petitions
to challenge the validity of the Plaintiff's Suit patents. It is also
submitted that in light of the prior pending revocation  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 45 of 257 petitions challenging the validity of the patents asserted in
the Suit, until the issue of validity is not conclusively adjudicated upon,
the Plaintiff is not entitled to the grant of any relief, interim or
permanent, by this Court. It is stated that the institution of revocation
proceedings by the Defendant was necessitated by the fact that at no point
during the negotiations between the parties was there an effort on the part of
the Plaintiff to address the Defendant's repeated concerns regarding the
validity of the former's patents. Consequently, in order to test the validity
of the Plaintiff's patents in and by an expert forum, the Defendant had no
option but to file the revocation petitions before the IPAB.
57\. The credibility of the Defendant's challenge to the validity of the
patents must be assessed solely on its merits as opposed to being guided by
any other extraneous consideration such as alleged delay in challenging the
validity. This is because under Section 140(1)(d) of the Act, there can be no
bar/estoppel against a licensee's right to challenge patent validity despite
having accrued benefit out of the use of the patented invention. If such a bar
does not act against a licensee, it follows that no such bar can apply against
even a prospective licensee such as the Defendant solely on account of alleged
delay in mounting a challenge to the validity of the patent. In this regard,
reliance is placed on the decision of Lear Incorporated v. John S. Adkins
(395U.S.653(1969) at Paragraphs 2-5) of the US Supreme Court, which was relied
upon by the IPAB in Enercon (India) Limited v. Aloys Wobben (2013 (56) PTC 412
at Paragraphs 16-17).
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 46 of 257
Reliance is further placed on Windsurfing International Inc. v. Commission of
European Committees (1986 ECR 611 at Paragraphs 89-93).
58\. It is submitted by the defendant that at this stage, the law requires the
Defendant to merely demonstrate the existence of a "credible challenge" to the
validity of the eight patents expressly asserted in the Suit. In other words,
the Court needs to satisfy itself that the challenge to the patents mounted by
the Defendant is not frivolous or vexatious. This position has been settled by
the Division bench of this Court in F Hoffman La Roche v. Cipla 2009 (40) PTC
125, wherein it observed as follows:
> "55. The question before this Court is when can it be said that the
> defendant has raised a credible challenge to the validity of a patent held
> by the plaintiff in an infringement action? During the course of the
> argument it was suggested by counsel that the challenge had to be both
> strong and credible. Also, the defendant resisting the grant of injunction
> by challenging the validity of the patent is at this stage required to show
> that the patent is "vulnerable" and that the challenge raises a "serious
> substantial question" and a triable issue. Without indulging in an exercise
> in semantics, the Court when faced with a prayer for grant of injunction and
> a corresponding plea of the defendant challenging the validity of the patent
> itself, must enquire whether the defendant has raised a credible challenge.
> In other words, that would in the context of pharmaceutical products, invite
> scrutiny of the order granting patent in the light of Section 3(d) and the
> grounds set out in Section 64 of the Patents Act 1970\. At this stage of
> course the Court is not expected to examine the challenge in any great
> detail and arrive at a definite finding on the question of validity. That
> will have to await the trial. At the present stage of considering the grant
> of an interim injunction, the defendant has to show that the patent  CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 47 of 257 that has been granted is vulnerable to
> challenge. Consequently, this Court rejects the contentions of the
> plaintiffs on this issue and affirms the impugned judgment of the learned
> Single Judge."
59\. The plaintiff's claim of essentiality of its patents for compliance with
technology standards, the prima facie validity of the patents asserted must be
established by the Plaintiff before establishing prima facie infringement on
the basis of alleged essentiality. This position has been specifically upheld
by the High Court of England and Wales in the matter of Vringo Infrastructure
Inc v. ZTE ((2013) EWHC 1591 (Pat) Paragraphs 40-60) which too was a case
pertaining to alleged telecom Standard Essential Patents wherein it was
observed as follows:
> "41. Say the court decides that the terms of such a licence involve a global
> royalty payment, in all countries, to the patentee. It is quite possibly the
> kind of thing a real negotiation might produce. Then the action continues
> and the patents are all found invalid. It cannot be that the rate arrived at
> is binding on the defendant. The defendant will have established that it has
> no obligation to pay the patentee in this jurisdiction whatsoever."
60\. It is alleged that it is impermissible for the Plaintiff to invite the
Court to presume the validity of its entire portfolio by emphasizing on its
own self-serving declaration of essentiality of the eight patents expressly
dealt with in the plaint. It is also impermissible for the Plaintiff to rely
on the grant of patents on related subject-matter outside India to support the
validity of its Indian patents since this goes against the territorial nature
of patent rights. After all, the validity of the Indian patents must be
examined within the framework of the Indian  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 48 of
257 Act. Critically, in the facts of the case, the scope of Indian Patents is
significantly different from the foreign counterparts. Therefore, no parity
can be drawn between them.
61\. This position was reiterated in Chemtura Corporation v. Union of India,
(2009 (41) PTC 260 (Del.) Paragraph 33), which is extracted below:
> "33. The case of the Plaintiff is that since till date there has been no
> order revoking the patent, it should be treated as valid and therefore
> injunction not refused. On the other hand the Defendants rely on Section 64
> read with Section 107 of the Act to contend that the challenge to the
> validity of the patent can be raised as a defence to a suit for
> infringement. The mere fact that Section 48 of the Act has been amended in
> 2002, does not grant any higher protection to the patent. Once the defendant
> is able to raise a credible challenge to the validity of the patent then
> injunction must be refused."
The proposition laid down in Chemtura's case (supra) for denial of interim
injunction on grounds of prima facie violation of Section 8 of the Act has not
been altered, and has in fact been affirmed by the Division Bench in the
Phillips case as follows:
> "39. In Chemtura Corporation Case (supra), this Court was dealing with grant
> of injunction under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 of CPC. Having recorded a prima
> facie satisfaction that there had been a failure by the plaintiff to comply
> with the mandatory requirement of Section 8(1), this Court held that the
> interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff cannot be continued. The
> question whether the power conferred under Section 64(1) of the Patents Act
> for revocation of the patent is discretionary or mandatory neither fell for
> consideration nor adjudicated by the Court in the said decision. Therefore,
> the learned Single Judge had rightly distinguished Chemtura  CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 49 of 257 Corporation Case (supra) relied upon by the
> learned counsel for the appellants/defendants."
62\. It is submitted by the defendant that the plaintiff has failed to
establish the first limb since apart from its self-serving declarations of
essentiality, neither the Standard Setting Organization ETSI nor any Court has
verified or upheld this claim. To this end, reference may be had to the
disclaimer of ETSI filed at Page No. 2817 in Volume XI of the List of
Documents filed by the Defendant on April 30, 2014, and the article at Page
No. 2783 of the same Volume capturing the decision of the Court of Rome
denying interim injunction to the Plaintiff on the basis that "essentiality",
being a complex analysis, cannot be determined at the interim stage.
63\. Therefore, any presumption of essentiality of the Plaintiff's Suit
patents is unfounded in facts and law.
64\. The claim charts filed by the Plaintiff do not identify which portions of
the technology standards are mandatory and which portions are optional. Since
the Plaintiff has not been able to establish that the Suit Patents are indeed
standard essential, the Defendant's compliance with ETSI standards cannot be
used to prove infringement. In this regard, reliance is placed on the decision
of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Fujitsu Ltd.
v. Netgear Inc., (620 F.3d 1321 at Page 8) which ratio has since been applied
in WIAV Networks LLC v. 3Com Corp (2010) and Medsquire LLC v. Quest
Diagnostics, Inc., (2011). Following were the critical observations of the
Court of Appeals in Fujitsu:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 50 of 257
"We acknowledge, however, that in many instances, an industry standard does
not provide the level of specificity required to establish that practicing
that standard would always result in infringement. Or, as with the '952
patent, the relevant section of the standard is optional, and standards
compliance alone would not establish that the accused infringer chooses to
implement the optional section. In these instances, it is not sufficient for
the patent owner to establish infringement by arguing that the product
admittedly practices the standard, therefore it infringes. In these cases, the
patent owner must compare the claims to the accused products or, if
appropriate, prove that the accused products implement any relevant optional
sections of the standard. This should alleviate any concern about the use of
standard compliance in assessing patent infringement. Only in the situation
where a patent covers every possible implementation of a standard will it be
enough to prove infringement by showing standard compliance.
In the instant case, the district court held that compliance with the
fragmentation sections of the 802.11 Standard would result in infringement of
the asserted claims. However, the district court held that these sections are
optional, that fragmentation is not a requirement of the standard.
Specifically, the court noted that the relevant sections of the standard do
not require fragmentation, they simply describe how to fragment. Therefore,
someone could comply with the standard without fragmenting, and thereby not
infringe the patent. The court noted the undisputed fact that the accused
products are capable of fragmentation, but default to no fragmentation. In
other words, the court relied on the fact that when a customer purchases the
accused product, it does not fragment until and unless the customer purposely
activates this option. The district court held that unless a customer
activated the fragmenting option, then there was no direct infringement.
Therefore, the district court held that Philips must show evidence of direct
infringement CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 51 of 257 by showing that customers
actually use the infringing fragmentation features."
65\. As the Plaintiff has failed to establish infringement based on alleged
essentiality of its patents, the Plaintiff must establish infringement through
the conventional time-tested approach i.e. by comparing the claims of its
patents with the features of the Defendant's allegedly infringing products. In
the present case, a perusal of the Plaint reveals that it fails miserably
since nowhere has the Plaintiff established that the methods claimed by it in
the Suit patents are being employed in the Defendant's products.
66\. The Plaintiff's claim is essentially one for money recovery i.e. recovery
of licence fees allegedly owed to it by the Defendant. Therefore, its claim is
compensable by way of damages if it establishes its case at trial.
Consequently, there is no irreparable harm caused to the Plaintiff which calls
for an interim injunction, particularly when complex issues of technology and
law are involved.
67\. Section 41 of the Specific Relief Act 1963 clearly states that an
injunction shall not be granted if there is an alternative efficacious remedy.
In this regard, reliance is placed on Dalpat Kumar v. Prahlad Singh, ((1992) 1
SCC 719 at Paragraphs 4-5), Pepsi Foods vs Jai Drinks (P) Ltd., (1996 (36) DRJ
711 at Paragraph 11), S.C. Shukla and Ors. v. Delhi Development Authority and
Anr. (1998 (73) DLT 131 at Paragraph 5) and Pepsi Co. Inc. and Anr. v.
Hindustan Coca Cola and Ors. (2001 (94) DLT 30 at Paragraph 13). Following
were the observations of the Supreme Court in Dalpat Kumar :
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 52 of 257
> "5. Therefore, the burden is on the plaintiff by evidence aliunde by
> affidavit or otherwise that there is "a prima facie case" in his favour
> which needs adjudication at the trial. The existence of thess prima facie
> right and infraction of the enjoyment of his property or the right is a
> condition for the grant of temporary injunction. Prima facie case is not to
> be confused with prima facie title which has to be established, on evidence
> at the trial. Only prima facie case is a substantial question raised, bona
> fide, which needs investigation and a decision on merits. Satisfaction that
> there is a prima facie case by itself is not sufficient to grant injunction.
> The Court further has to satisfy that non-interference by the Court would
> result in "irreparable injury" to the party seeking relief and that there is
> no other remedy available to the party except one to grant injunction and he
> needs protection from the consequences of apprehended injury or
> dispossession. Irreparable injury, however, does not mean that there must be
> no physical possibility of repairing the injury, but means only that the
> injury must be a material one, namely one that cannot be adequately
> compensated by way of damages. The third condition also is that "the balance
> of convenience" must be in favour of granting injunction. The Court while
> granting or refusing to grant injunction should exercise sound judicial
> discretion to find the amount of substantial mischief or injury which is
> likely to be caused to the parties, if the injunction is refused and compare
> it with that which is likely to be caused to the other side if the
> injunction is granted. If on weighing competing possibilities or
> probabilities of likelihood of injury and if the Court considers that
> pending the suit, the subject matter should be maintained in status quo, an
> injunction would be issued. Thus the Court has to exercise its sound
> judicial discretion in granting or refusing the relief of ad interim
> injunction pending the suit."
68\. The damages are the appropriate and efficacious remedy to redress the
plaintiff's claim, has been uniformly applied in cases involving allegations
of infringement of Standard Essential Patents. In  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 53
of 257 this regard, reliance is placed on the decision in Microsoft v.
Motorola (2012). Following are the relevant observations of the US Court in
the said case:
> "1. Irreparable Harm Harm is irreparable when it cannot be remedied except
> through injunctive relief. See Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Inc. v.
> Grokster, Ltd., 518 F. Supp. 2d 1197, 1210 (C.D. Cal. 2007). Economic
> damages are not traditionally considered irreparable because the injury can
> later be remedied by a damage award. As the Supreme Court explained, "the
> temporary loss of income, ultimately to be recovered, does not usually
> constitute irreparable injury . . . . The possibility that adequate
> compensatory or other corrective relief will be available at a later date,
> in the ordinary course of litigation, weighs heavily against a claim of
> irreparable harm."Sampson v. Murray, 415 U.S. 61, 90 (1974).
> At this stage in the litigation, and based on this court's prior rulings,
> the court concludes that Motorola cannot demonstrate irreparable harm. Here,
> the court has previously ruled that Microsoft is a third-party beneficiary
> of Motorola's commitments to the ITU (and the IEEE) such that Microsoft is
> entitled to a RAND license agreement for Motorola's H.264 (and 802.11)
> standard essential patents. The Motorola Asserted Patents, at issue in this
> litigation, are standard essential patents of the H.264 Standard and are
> included in Motorola's H.264 standard essential patent portfolio. Thus,
> Microsoft is entitled to a license to the Motorola Asserted Patents on RAND
> terms.
As Microsoft has committed to accept a license on RAND terms for Motorola's
entire H.264 standard essential patent portfolio, and the litigation is
continuing to determine the details of such a license, it is now clear that at
some point in the future (either by agreement of the parties or by court
adjudication) a license agreement  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 54 of 257 for the
Motorola Asserted Patents will become a reality. Because Microsoft will pay
royalties under any license agreement from the time of infringement within the
statute of limitations, this license agreement will constitute Motorola's
remedy for Microsoft's use of Motorola's H.264 standard essential patent
portfolio to include the Motorola Asserted Patents. Accordingly, Motorola
cannot demonstrate that it has been irreparably harmed.
2\. Adequate Remedy at Law For similar reasons, Motorola cannot show that it
has no adequate remedy other than injunctive relief. As the court explained,
Motorola's remedy is a RAND license agreement for its H.264 standard essential
patent portfolio, which includes the Motorola Asserted Patents. This remedy
will make Motorola whole for Microsoft's use of any and all of Motorola's
H.264 standard essential patents.
Although the court is aware that injunctive relief often accompanies a finding
of patent infringement, this is not a simple patent infringement action. After
hearing testimony at the November 13, 2012 trial, it is clear that, from the
time Motorola committed to license its H.264 standard essential patent
portfolio on RAND terms, Motorola was under the obligation to grant RAND
licenses to all implementers (including Microsoft) of the H.264 standard.
Motorola's obligation to grant such a RAND license to Microsoft far preceded
the onset of this litigation, meaning that at all times during this
litigation, the issue was not if, but when and under what terms, a license
agreement would be established between Microsoft and Motorola. Thus, because
Motorola has always been required to grant Microsoft a RAND license agreement
for its H.264 standard essential patents, as a matter of CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 55 of 257 logic, the impending license agreement will adequately remedy
Motorola as a matter of law.
In sum, Motorola has not shown it has suffered an irreparable injury or that
remedies available at law are inadequate to compensate for its injury. As
such, the court need not reach the other elements of the standard for
permanent injunctive relief. See eBay, 547 U.S. at 391; Hadel v. Willis Roof
Consulting, Inc., 2008 WL 4372783, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 23, 2008).
Accordingly, the court grants Microsoft's motion dismissing Motorola's request
for injunctive relief in this action."
69\. It is submitted that grant of an injunction would in fact cause
irreparable harm to the business of the defendant and to the consuming public
which is dependent on the affordable mobile phones made available by the
defendant. Given that the Defendant is not a fly- by-night operator and has
made significant investments in its business and has a reputation worth
protecting among its consumers, grant of an interim injunction would bring the
entire business of the Defendant to a standstill. This result of no benefit to
either party considering that the claim is ultimately pecuniary in nature. The
Defendant is an entity with an annual turnover of INR 2057 crores with over
2000 employees on its payroll and a distribution network comprised of over
1100 distributors and over 50000 dealers. Further, the Defendant deals in
affordable mobile phones which cater to low and mid-segment. In view of these
facts, a grant of an interim injunction would result in irreparable harm to
the Defendant's business and severely undermine its reputation in the market,
thereby compromising its short and long term interests.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 56 of 257
70\. At the same time, the defendant has admitted the factum of negotiations
between them. In answer to the same, it is alleged by the defendant that the
correspondence exchanged between the parties amply demonstrates that the
defendant is not an unwilling licensee and it is the Plaintiff who has not
negotiated in good faith since it withheld information necessary for the
Defendant to evaluate the need to secure a licence. Many requests of the
defendant related to disclosures on the following:
A. Identification of the complete list of relevant patents for which the
Plaintiff wanted the Defendant to obtain a licence along with proof of
essentiality by way of claim charts B. Undertaking on the validity of the
patents proposed to be licensed and indemnity against third party claims C.
Identification of the specific components in the Defendant's mobile phones
which allegedly infringed the patents of the Plaintiff D. Specifics of the
commercial terms of the proposed licence E. Basis of the proposed royalty
schedule and proof of the fact that the same rates have been offered to
parties who are similarly situated to the Defendant.
Barring a "sample list of patents" and corresponding sample claim charts, the
Plaintiff did not share any of the above enumerated information.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 57 of 257
71\. The allegations are also made by the defendant against the plaintiff that
the plaintiff has violated its FRAND obligations by offering different rates
to similar placed parties as follows:
> Rates offered to Rates offered to Rates offered to Intex Gionee Micromax
> Revised Term Order dated 31st Order dated 19th sheet dated 29th October 2013
> in March 2013 in May 2013 C.S.(O.S.) C.S.(O.S.) 2010/2013 442/2013 in
> accordance with Ericsson's letter to Micromax dated November 5, 2012 GSM 1.5
> 1.25 1.25 GPRS + GSM 2.25 1.75 1.75  EDGE + GPRS+ 2.25 2 2 GSM  WCDMA/HSPA
> 2.25 2 2 Phones or Devices
72\. It is alleged from the above that the revised offer to defendant is
higher than the original rates offered to Micromax and Gionee. This is in
inescapable violation of the plaintiff's FRAND Obligations. Courts have held
that merely because a prospective licensee has challenged the validity of the
patents, it does not ipso facto render him an unwilling licensee. This
position has been settled in Vringo Infrastructure Inc (supra) (Paragraphs
40-46 and 52-58) wherein it has been held as under:
"41. Say the court decides that the terms of such a licence involve a global
royalty payment, in all countries, to the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 58 of 257
patentee. It is quite possibly the kind of thing a real negotiation might
produce. Then the action continues and the patents are all found invalid. It
cannot be that the rate arrived at is binding on the defendant. The defendant
will have established that it has no obligation to pay the patentee in this
jurisdiction whatsoever.
42\. That is the heart of the defendant's contingent position. In this case
ZTE is not willing to be a licensee of invalid and/or not infringed patents.
So ZTE is not prepared to be bound by the outcome of the determination that
Vringo proposes. This raises the question of what is a willing licensee. The
suggestion from Vringo was that this stance showed that ZTE was not really a
willing licensee at all.
43\. The concept of a willing licensee arises in this context as follows.
There is what I will call a general idea (without expressing a view on whether
it is right or wrong) that when a patent is an SEP, if a defendant is a
willing licensee, then it may be that the patentee is not entitled to obtain
an injunction against the defendant, whereas if the defendant was not a
willing licensee, then the defendant may be subject to the risk of an
injunction. This issue has developed in Germany and questions have been
referred to the Court of Justice dealing with these issues. It arises in
Germany at least in part as a result of the bifurcated procedure where a
defendant in an infringement court can find itself in a position in which the
patent is found to be infringed -- that is to say it covers the standard --
and is therefore facing an injunction a long time before validity has been
determined by the Federal Patent Court. Any problem of this kind caused by
bifurcation is not an issue here.
44\. This case is a long way from having to consider whether to grant
injunctive relief; after all, according to ZTE, the patents are all invalid
and/or not infringed. However, in any case I reject the idea that the stance
being taken by ZTE in this jurisdiction can fairly be said to mean that ZTE is
not a CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 59 of 257 willing licensee. ZTE has said it is
willing to take a FRAND licence on any patent found valid and infringed. In my
judgment, a defendant accused of patent infringement by a patentee who claims
to have a standards essential patent is and must be entitled to say, "I wish
to know if this patent is valid or infringed or not before I take a licence".
Such a stance cannot fairly be described as unwillingness.
45\. So here the defendant is entitled, in my judgment, to adopt a contingent
position. In a contingent case like this, there is no basis on which the court
could compel the defendants to accept a licence arrived at by approaching the
matter as if the licensee was willing to take a licence without having a
judicial determination of validity and/or infringement.
46\. Looking at it the other way, if, once the patent trials are heard, for
example, say Vringo's alleged SEPs were found invalid, it would be absurd for
Vringo to say it still wanted to have a trial to determine a FRAND royalty
rate applicable in the United Kingdom. The rate would be zero. Equally, say
Vringo won all the patent trials hands down and then conducted a FRAND trial,
it would equally be absurd for ZTE at that trial to say, "Oh but these are
weak patents likely to be invalid or not infringed and the royalty should
correspondingly be less.
52\. The FRAND trial proposed by Vringo would be a major exercise. In my
judgment, it is much heavier than Vringo suggests. Although the comparison is
not exact, I note that the Nokia v IPCom FRAND trial, which was to deal with
one patent, was estimated for a comparable length as the trial Mr. Green
proposes here. However, the FRAND trial in this case would be about a
portfolio of hundreds of patents. To make the order sought would commit the
parties to very substantial costs and time.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 60 of 257
53\. Vringo is not suggesting that the court should decide the FRAND royalty
on the basis that all the patents are all valid and all infringed. In other
words, this is not a case of the first type. That could be done in theory but
it is not what Vringo are asking for. And since ZTE says the patents are
invalid, I can see there would be little point in that exercise.
54\. I sympathise with Vringo to this extent. If both sides were willing one
way, probably the cheapest and most cost effective way, of resolving the whole
global case overall, would be if a single court were to do what was done in
Microsoft v Motorola. In my judgment, if both sides were willing to be bound
by the outcome, there is no reason why the English court could not do it.
Nothing in the determination makes it intrinsically impossible for the court
to resolve. It would be costly but that is a different matter; it would be
less than the three trials proposed by the defendant, and less than the
aggregate of that plus all the various parallel cases going on elsewhere. I
gather there are cases on this portfolio between Vringo and ZTE in at least
France, Germany and possibly Australia. If the defendant was prepared to
accept such a determination as binding, then it would at a stroke resolve the
case in a time and cost efficient manner because then there would be no patent
trials at all.
55\. But, as I have said already, the court cannot and should not seek to
compel or coerce a defendant into that position. The defendant in this case is
entitled to challenge validity and infringement of the patents in suit.
56\. In some ways I believe the position adopted by Vringo in this dispute
confuses the true nature of its legal rights. Its rights are and are nothing
more than patent rights. Although it is a truism that disputes of this kind
often end up with a global licence, one needs to be careful turning that
truism into something like a right to compel a defendant to enter into such a
licence.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 61 of 257
The truism does not alter the character of Vringo's underlying rights.
57\. Since the defendant wishes to challenge validity, then the issues
proposed by Vringo are a major distraction and are potentially misleading.
They have the capacity to create the idea that the defendant owes a sum
determined as if it was willing to negotiate without determining validity or
infringement.
58\. In my judgment, the issue before me is not simply a matter of case
management and consideration of the court's resources. In this case, I think
it would be wrong to schedule a trial of the various declarations sought by
Vringo before the trial of the patents in this case, and I will not do so."
The above enumerated position has been recognized by the European Commission
as the correct one in MEMO/13/403 dated May 6, 2013. Extracted below are the
relevant portions:
> "Under what circumstances can a potential licensee be considered "willing"
> to enter into a FRAND licence?
> In the case at hand, the Commission is of the preliminary view that Apple's
> willingness to enter into a FRAND licence manifested itself in particular by
> its acceptance to be bound by a German court's determination of a FRAND
> royalty rate. The Commission's preliminary view is that the acceptance of
> binding third party determination for the terms of a FRAND licence in the
> event that bilateral negotiations do not come to a fruitful conclusion is a
> clear indication that a potential licensee is willing to enter into a FRAND
> licence. This process allows for adequate remuneration of the SEP-holder so
> that seeking or enforcing injunctions is no longer justified once a
> potential licensee has accepted such a process.
> By contrast, a potential licensee which remains passive and unresponsive to
> a request to enter into licensing negotiations or  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
> 62 of 257 is found to employ clear delaying tactics cannot be generally
> considered as "willing". In addition, in the Commission's preliminary view,
> the fact that the potential licensee challenges the validity, essentiality
> or infringement of the SEP does not make it unwilling where it otherwise
> agrees to be bound by the determination of FRAND terms by a third party. In
> the case at hand, Motorola required clauses that prohibited such challenges
> by Apple, even after Apple had agreed to be bound by a third party
> determination of the FRAND terms. The Commission's preliminary view is that
> it is in the public interest that licensees should be able to challenge the
> validity, essentiality or infringement of SEPs."
73\. It is submitted by the defendant that the royalty rate offered by the
Plaintiff to the Defendant unreasonably its FRAND obligations since the
Plaintiff insists on charging royalties on the basis of the sale price of the
mobile phone as opposed to the profit margin on the sale price of the baseband
processor/chipset in which its technology allegedly resides. The unfairness of
such a position has been established in Microsoft v. Motorola, which was
subsequently affirmed in In re Innovatio IP Ventures LLC. Consequently, in
view of the unfair royalties demanded by the Plaintiff and its adamantine
refusal to share necessary information with a willing licensee such as the
Defendant, the Plaintiff cannot be granted any exclusionary remedies since it
is in violation of its FRAND obligations.
This position has been endorsed by the European Commission in MEMO/13/403 and
IP/13/406 as follows:
> "Is the Commission generally questioning the use of injunctions by patent-
> holders?
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 63 of 257
> No. Recourse to injunctive relief is generally a legitimate remedy for
> patent-holders in case of patent infringements. The case is therefore not
> about eliminating the use of injunctions by patent-holders. Rather, the
> Commission has reached the preliminary conclusion that the seeking and
> enforcing of an injunction for SEPs can constitute an abuse of a dominant
> position in the exceptional circumstances of this case - where the holder of
> a SEP has given a commitment to license these patents on FRAND terms and
> where the company against which an injunction is sought has shown to be
> willing to enter into a FRAND licence."
74\. The use of exclusionary remedies by owners of alleged SEPs has been
frowned upon by US Courts as well which are usually perceived as being pro-
patentees. Reliance in this regard is placed on Realtek v. LSI. In this case,
the Court specifically acknowledged the inequitable nature of any interim
injunction and the violation of FRAND commitments which arise from the grant
of such an order. Further, the serious threat posed by such orders to Public
Interest has been categorically taken cognizance of by the Courts.
REPLY TO THE DEFENDANT'S CASE
75\. The main case of the plaintiff is that the suit mentioned patents are
"Standard Essential Patents" in the field of telecommunication and are
mandatorily required and used for the implementation of the concerned
technologies including 2G and 3G technologies. Plaintiff, in the light of the
FRAND commitment made by it to various Standard Setting Organizations
including ETSI (European Telecommunication Standards Institute) fairly offered
a license for its entire portfolio of patents (including the suit patents)
which are essential for 2G and 3G  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 64 of 257
technologies to defendant. However, despite being put to notice since December
2008, defendant has failed to obtain licenses from plaintiff for its Standard
Essential Patents (hereinafter SEPs) including the suit patents. From 2008
onwards till the filing of the present suit, though defendant has always
averred and in fact continues to state that it is willing to discuss and enter
into a FRAND license with plaintiff, however the same is not reflected from
the conduct of the defendant, such details are given as under :
i) Despite repeated requests by the plaintiff, the defendant has failed to
constructively negotiate a license agreement with plaintiff;
ii) Defendant despite admitting that plaintiff is the owner of SEPs which are
necessarily employed and used by defendant in various telecommunication
devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.) being sold by it under its brand, no
feasible offer has been made by defendant;
76\. In reply to the case of the defendant, it is alleged by the plaintiff
that defendant has sought information in respect of how its product are
infringing from plaintiff and when sample infringement details were provided
to it, has sought revocation for the said patents before the Intellectual
Property Appellate Board with the malafide intention of harassing Ericsson and
to escape its liability. The defendant has failed to clarify or define what is
the technology which is being used in its telecommunication devices (handsets,
tablets, dongles etc.) and how is the same non-infringing in nature. The
defendant had initially sought information related to the essentiality of
Ericsson's patents and when such details were provided, an information was
filed with  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 65 of 257 the Competition Commission of
India alleging that plaintiff is abusing its dominant position which is solely
based on the ground that Ericsson being the proprietor of several valid SEPs
is in a dominant position and has allegedly failed to actively license its
SEPs on reasonable terms. The defendant is selling its telecommunication
devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.) in India without seeking any license
from even a single SEP owner. As a result, defendant was never a willing
licensee as it has never respected the Intellectual Property Rights of even a
single SEP proprietor despite admitting that defendant is not technically
competent to develop its own patented technology or to contribute to the
global standards for telecommunication.
77\. It is alleged by the plaintiff that after a lapse of more than 5 years of
negotiations, during which defendant misled plaintiff and misused all the
information and details which were provided by plaintiff to Intex (with the
view to facilitate the execution of a FRAND license agreement) for the purpose
of initiating frivolous legal proceedings before various forums against
plaintiff solely with the intention to escape its liability as it was apparent
that defendant never intended to sign any license agreement with plaintiff and
thus plaintiff was left with no option but to file the present suit for
infringement against defendant seeking permanent injunction. The defendant has
raised mere bald averments on the subject of FRAND rates and FRAND license
agreement and has conveniently failed to highlight that it is not paying any
license fee to even a single SEP owner for the various  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 66 of 257 telecommunication devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.)
being sold by it in India. Thus, defendant is an infringer who is illegally
earning profits to the detriment of the innovator and inventor companies in
the field of telecommunication.
78\. It is submitted by the plaintiff that the defendant is one of the largest
mobile handset suppliers in the country. The plaintiff first time contacted
defendant in 2008, it had very small market-share of the handset in India. Now
the defendant has reasonable market in India in the field of mobile
communication. As per plaintiff, the defendant enjoys more than 4 % market
share in India. The devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.) which infringe
all the SEPs qua a telecommunication device are being sold by defendant is not
licensed to even a single SEP proprietor. Thus, it is obvious and doubtful in
the contentions qua the fact that it provides 'products with high-end
technology at affordable price' or that it ensures that the 'Indian consumer
has access to state of the art products as per the latest global standards at
affordable rates' as all the telecommunication devices (handsets, tablets,
dongles etc.) which are sold by defendant.
79\. During the course of negotiations, the defendant sought information from
plaintiff as to how its products/devices are infringing in nature and when
sample infringement details were provided to it by Ericsson - revocation
petitions were filed before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board related
to the patents for which proof of infringement was provided by plaintiff with
the malafide intention of it and to escape its liability for infringement.
Thus, incorrect averments  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 67 of 257 have been raised
by defendants to the effect that 'institution of revocation petitions was
necessitated by the fact that at no point during the negotiations between the
parties was there an effort the part of plaintiff to address defendant's
repeated concerns regarding the validity of the former's patents.
Consequently, in order to test the validity of Ericsson's patents in and by an
expert forum, defendant had no option but to file the revocation petitions
before the IPAB'.
During the entire course of negotiations, defendant had never challenged the
validity of the suit patents and negotiated with Ericsson on the royalty rates
after being advised upon the validity and essentiality of the same.
80\. It is submitted that throughout the period of 5 years when the parties
were negotiating with each other, no questions or concerns were ever raised by
defendant related to the validity of Ericsson's patents (including the suit
patents) and it was only after Ericsson started asserting rights in the suit
patents against other Indian Mobile Companies/Mobile Phone Vendors who were
infringing plaintiff's patents that revocation petitions were filed by
defendant before the IPAB.
81\. The royalty demanded by plaintiff is based upon the following:-
i. The royalty base is the sale price earned by the supplier from its
customer.
ii. A Percentage of the said sale price is demanded as a royalty depending
upon the technology being used.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 68 of 257
iii. Percentages are determined on the basis of the contribution of patented
technology to the standard and its contributed value for the end user in the
end product.
iv. Percentage/royalty is also dependent upon the amount of essential patents
held compared to others who have contributed to the standard.
v. Percentage is then confirmed or revised based on what the market has found
reasonable in licensing negotiations, as evidenced by the numerous signed
license agreements with Ericsson.
82\. The plaintiff states that merely because revocation petitions were filed
by defendant prior to the filing of the present suit, does not mean that no
interim relief can be granted against it. It is of interest to note that
though defendant seeks to differentiate its case from that of other third
parties against whom plaintiff's suits for infringement of patents are pending
before this Court, however identical grounds have been raised by defendant by
placing reliance on exactly the same alleged prior art documents. Therefore,
the act of seeking revocation of the suit patents is nothing but an attempt on
part of defendant to escape its liability for infringement under the Patents
Act, 1970. The validity of plaintiff's patents has been challenged on numerous
occasions by infringers and unwilling licensees in different litigations
across the globe, however, till date none of the patents of plaintiff have
been revoked.
83\. It is also denied by the defendant that the plaintiff has corresponded
with defendant since 2008 and parties made many efforts for licensing
plaintiff's patents. The complete summary of the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 69
of 257 correspondence and the events exchanged between the plaintiff and
defendant since 2008 have been mentioned in the replication. The same is
reproduced hereunder :
             DATE                              PARTICULARS
      16th December,          First letter addressed by Ericsson to Intex stating
      2008                    that Ericsson is a world leader in development of
wireless communication equipment and has a significant portfolio of patents in
India which are essential in nature. Upon review of Intex's business, Ericsson
believes that its essential patents are being used by Intex in more than 10 of
its GSM compliant products. In the light of the same, Ericsson stated that it
is willing to grant a license to Intex qua its Standard Essential Patents on
FRAND terms and requested Intex for a meeting.
7th January, Reply email from Intex to Ericsson  2009 Intex denied knowledge
qua Ericsson's patent portfolio in India that is essential in nature. However,
Intex agreed to meet Ericsson.
12th January, Email from Ericsson to Intex  2009 Ericsson informed Intex about
the fact that it has several existing licensees and it is also in negotiation
with few other Indian vendors qua entering into a license agreement.
Ericsson also provided an example list of its SEPs to Intex.
Ericsson also provided a Non-Disclosure Agreement to Intex and asked Intex to
execute  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 70 of 257 the same so that both the parties
can move forward to discuss all the issues in more detail.
22nd January, Email from Intex to Ericsson requesting for a 2009 meeting
before executing the NDA.
    30th    January, Email from Ericsson to Intex agreeing to have a
    2009             conference call on 06.02.2009.
However, it is clarified that with an NDA in place it would be easier to
discuss the licensing arrangement and offer.
6th February, No one attended the conference call from Intex's 2009 side.
An email was issued by Ericsson proposing to have a conference call on 11th or
13thFebruary, 2009\.
9th February, Email from Intex to Ericsson, agreeing to sign the 2009 NDA in
order to learn the applicability of Ericsson's GSM/GPRS Patent. A draft NDA
with some changes and comments was also forwarded by Intex along with this
email.
9th February, Email from Ericsson in reply to the Intex's email 2009 dated
09.02.2009 forwarding the amended version of NDA with its inputs.
10th February, Email from Intex to Ericsson raising concerns 2009 over the
jurisdiction clause of NDA on the ground that Intex is not in a position to
afford costs of proceedings in Switzerland.
10th February, Email from Ericsson to Intex wherein in order to 2009 address
Intex's concern on the jurisdiction of the NDA - neutral countries like
England, Wales and Switzerland were proposed.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 71 of 257
17th February, Email from Intex to Ericsson wherein it is stated 2009 that
India be considered as the territory governing the jurisdiction of the NDA and
New Delhi as the venue for arbitration proceedings.
17th February, Email from Ericsson to Intex wherein it is stated 2009 that it
would be preferable to have a neutral venue as jurisdiction and Singapore was
suggested.
24th February, Email from Ericson to Intex seeking its advise to 2009 address
the issue of NDA so as to enable the parties to move forward.
27th February, Email from Ericsson to Intex wherein a 2009 conference call is
proposed to discuss the issue of jurisdiction of NDA.
5th March, 2009 Email from Ericsson to Intex highlighting that Intex did not
confirm its participation for the conference call on 5.3.2009. A response on
the issue of jurisdiction of the NDA is requested by 6.3.2009.
8th December, Letter written on behalf of Ericsson to Intex 2009 Reference
made to first letter addressed by Ericsson to Intex.
Further, in the light of the reservation expressed by Intex in reference to
the governing law of the arbitration clause in NDA, a revised NDA is forwarded
with laws of Singapore a neutral country being the governing law for
arbitration.
Ericsson further proposed to have a meeting on 14.12.2009 at Intex's premises
in New Delhi.
25th January, Email from Ericsson to Intex wherein reference is  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 72 of 257 2010 made to the 8.12.2009 letter and time is
sought for further discussion.
The email is also addressed to the MD of Intex.
    28th    January, Meeting held between Ericsson's counsel and
    2010             Intex. The meeting was attended by Mr. Rajesh
                     Sondhi,    Company       Secretary   and     Mr.
NishantMukund - Legal on behalf of Intex. In the meeting the issue of
Singapore as a venue along with the fact that Intex are merely importing
devices from China and were not manufacturing the same were discussed.
1st September, An email addressed by Ericsson to certain 2010
officials/officers of Intex wherein reference was made to a meeting at ICA
Office. Further, amended NDA was attached and comments were requested.
16th December, Letter from Ericsson to Intex 2011 It is stated by Ericsson
that it has attempted to communicate with Intex since 16th December, 2008 with
respect to licensing of its SEPs on FRAND terms. The factum of Ericsson being
a leading mobile cellular standard contributor and owner of considerable
portfolio of Essential Patents related to 2G and 3G technology was reiterated.
In the light of the insincere response by Intex it was stated that Ericsson
cannot be expected to continue its efforts to license its patents on FRAND
terms without any serious intention on the part of Intex especially in the
light of the continuing violation of Ericsson's 2G/3G SEPs.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 73 of 257
ICA also CC'd.
28th December, Email addressed by Intex to Ericsson 2011 Reference is made to
the 16th December, 2011 letter and in the light of the New Year vacation
further time to reply is sought.
    19th    January, Letter from Intex to Ericsson in reply to 16th
    2012             December, 2011 letter
It is stated that as per Intex the status of its file folder pertaining to the
concerned issue stands closed. It was also highlighted that there has been
minimum correspondence between the parties and any grievance on the part of
Ericsson suffers from substantial delay.
It was stated that Intex does not manufacture mobile phones or their
components/parts. It was further highlighted that Intex does not even assemble
such components as a third party supplies complete products which are then
sold by Intex under its trade mark.
It is also stated by Intex that it has entered into specific agreements with
the various manufacturing sources wherein it has been specifically confirmed
by such manufacturers that the various parts/components supplied by them do
not infringe the IP rights of any party. Further, such agreements specifically
contain indemnity clause whereby it is the responsibility of the manufacturer
and not Intex to defend any infringement proceedings.
In the light of the aforesaid, plea of uninformed and innocent infringer was
taken by Intex.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 74 of 257
Identical email was also addressed to Ericsson.
ICA also CC'd.
    26th    January, Letter from Ericsson in reply to the 19th January,
    2012             2012 letter
It is clarified by Ericsson that it is the company which sells infringing
products under its brand that has the liability to enter into a license
agreement. It was also clarified that as Ericsson has not provided any license
to Intex suppliers or manufacturers, its product continue to be infringing in
nature and a request for a meeting was made with Mr. Harish Sharma in
February, 2012 wherein it was stated that Ericsson will explain any more
details about the infringement of Ericsson's patents by Intex.
It was specifically stated that Intex has been selling GSM compliant products
since many years and has at the same time refused to communicate with Ericsson
on licensing matter.
30th January, An email addressed by Ericsson to Intex 2012 attaching
Ericsson's reply letter dated 26th January, 2012 and a proposal for a meeting
on 30th February, 2012 was extended.
7th February, Intex replies to Ericsson's 30th January, 2012 2012 email and
proposes either 27th or 28th February, 2012 for a meeting.
9th February, An email addressed from Ericsson to Intex 2012 confirming the
meeting on 28th February, 2012.
However, a request was made for rescheduling the time of the meeting to 4.00
PM instead of 4.30 PM.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 75 of 257
23rd February, An email addressed on behalf of Ericsson 2012 seeking
confirmation of the meeting to Intex official.
Meeting was confirmed from Intex side as well via email.
28th February, Meeting held between Intex and Ericsson where 2012 NDA was
discussed. Further, physical copies of five example patents were provided by
Ericsson to Intex and discussion on FRAND license was conducted.
29th February, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex attaching 2012 the NDA and
requesting that as per the discussion, the same may be signed by the week of
15th March, 2012.
15th March, Email addressed to Ericsson on behalf of Intex 2012 stating that
they are still studying the patent documents provided to them by Ericsson.
Further, in light of the fact that March is the closing month of financial
year, further time was sought till mid of April, 2012.
17th April, 2012 A reminder email addressed by Ericsson to Intex.
23rd April, 2012 Another reminder email addressed to Intex.
In reply it was stated that Intex will revert within a week.
4th May, 2012 An email addressed by Ericsson to Intex enquiring about the NDA.
7th May, 2012 An email addressed by Intex to Ericsson In the said email it was
averred that Intex does not have any clarity about the necessity of signing an
NDA as there cannot be any  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 76 of 257 confidentiality
in complete specification and disclosure of acts of infringement. It was
reiterated that Intex does not manufacture handsets, therefore, it is not
aware of the full details of the circuit/technologies used in its handsets and
would require such information which can be further disclosed to the various
manufacturers from whom Intex is procuring various components.
8th May, 2012 Email address by Ericsson in reply to Intex's 7.5.2012 email It
was clarified that the acts of infringement were duly explained to Intex on
the basis of essentiality of Ericsson's patents and five example patents were
also handed over to Intex for its review. As a result, Intex had claims of 5
patents which Intex was infringing. Further, it was stated that only qua
claims charts, confidentiality was sought by Ericsson as these are Ericsson's
proprietary documents. It was again clarified that liability to take a license
lies with the brand owner.
Intex's need to discuss the matter at hand with an outside expert especially
in terms of the fact that Intex is not a manufacturer was acknowledged by
Ericsson as a result of which hard copies of five patents were handed over for
review and consultation with necessary technical team. Further, proposal for
another meeting was made wherein Intex was asked to involve any technical
person from its side to understand the technology and infringement.
14th May, 2012 Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex requesting  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 77 of 257 confirmation for a meeting on 21st, 22nd or 23rd
May.
15th May, 2012 Email addressed by Ericsson to Intexseeking confirmation for a
meeting on 21st, 22nd or 23rd May.
16th May, 2012 Reply email from Intex stating that as the concerned officials
are pre-occupied, they would not be available for a meeting on either of the
three days.
In reply Ericsson requested that information of any suitable date of their
availability be provided so as to finalize a meeting.
22nd May, 2012 A joint meeting held between Ericsson and eight Indian handsets
manufactures under the aegis of Indian Cellular Association (ICA).
8th August, 2012 Email from Ericsson to the representative of ICA providing
the proof infringement in relation to the handsets marketed by Intex.
9th August, 2012 Email from the representative of ICA forwarding the proof of
infringement as provide by Ericsson to Intex.
13th August, Internal email circulated by Intex to confirm the 2012
infringement test report from an independent body as supplied by Ericsson.
Further, whether the infringing technology can be disabled is asked to be
looked into.
The aforesaid is again internally highlighted by Intex vide email dated
18.8.2012.
16th August, Letter from Ericsson to Intex expressing 2012 satisfaction with
the meeting on 22.05.2012 and  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 78 of 257 highlighting
the importance of timely conclusion of relevant license agreement.
Ericsson again proposed for a meeting in the week of 27th August 2012. It was
also highlighted that all the action points for Ericsson as agreed in the
meeting have been completed.
13th March, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex stating that 2013 the issue
of patent license agreement is still outstanding and in order to settle the
matter, a request for a meeting on 14th March, 2013 was made.
26th March, Reply from Intex to Ericsson wherein it was 2013 stated that Intex
respects Ericsson's Intellectual Property including patents and is ready to
obtain a patent license agreement for the same. It was also stated that
despite Intex's requests for commercial terms of the PLA, the same have not
been provided by Ericsson till date. Thus, a request was made that before the
meeting, the terms of FRAND license be provide to Intex and a request for
meeting any time after 29th March, 2013 was made.
In reply it is highlighted by Ericsson that commercial terms can only be
discussed once an NDA is signed between Intex and Ericsson and a request was
made for the execution of the same.
In reply thereto, a copy of NDA was requested by Intex from Ericsson and it
was stated that they are willing to hold a meeting as proposed.
28th March, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex whereby 2013 copy of the NDA
was sent and it was stated that subsequent to the signing of the NDA - the
term  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 79 of 257 sheet will be provided to Intex by
Ericsson.
30th March, Email from Intex to Ericsson whereby the 2013 scanned signed copy
of the NDA was sent wherein the venue of arbitration was changed to New Delhi.
In the light of the fact that the NDA was signed, request for commercial terms
was made and certain clarification was sought to the following extent:
A. Total number of patents Ericsson intends to license to Intex;
B. Copies of existing license agreement between Ericsson and other parties
selling handsets in India;
C. Basis for Ericsson levying the royalty rate i.e. whether it is the chipset
price or the import value;
D. List of cross licensees with whom Ericsson has entered into a patent
license agreement for GSM, EDGE and GPRS as a result of which Intex would not
be required to enter into individual license arrangement with entities other
than Ericsson.
E.
In reply, Ericsson highlights the fact that Ericsson is a Swedish Company and
requests that the NDA be signed with Sweden being the country governing the
law.
1st April, 2013 In reply email Intex clarifies that Intex is an Indian entity
with operations in India and thus, it is not agreeable to be governed by laws
of Sweden and in turn requests Ericsson to sign the NDA with Delhi as the
jurisdiction. Request for commercial details and clarifications as sought in
the 30th March, email was made.
In reply, an amendment to the extent that a  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 80 of
257 neutral venue i.e. Singapore being the country whose law would govern the
NDA was made.
2nd April, 2013 Intex in reply again reiterated that as it is an Indian
Company with Indian operations it is not agreeable for being governed by laws
of Singapore and requested Ericsson to sign the NDA with Delhi being the place
for arbitration.
3rd April, 2013 Reminder email sent by Intex to Ericsson seeking confirmation
along with affirming the time for meeting.
In reply Ericsson reiterated its stand.
4th April, 2013 Intex again reiterated its stand on the NDA qua same being
governed by Indian law.
5th April, 2013 Ericsson requests a tele-conference to clarify the issue.
10th April, 2013 Email from Intex to Ericsson stating that Intex is sending a
signed copy of NDA with Singapore jurisdiction and requested that necessary
information as earlier requested by them be sent to Intex. Protest on
Singapore as jurisdiction governing arbitration is reiterated.
Pursuant to the tele-conversation Ericsson requests Intex to sign the NDA with
Singapore jurisdiction.
11th April, 2013 A Non-Disclosure Agreement signed between
\- 12th April, Intex and Ericsson. The NDA is to be governed 2013 by
substantial law of Singapore and in case of any arbitration the proceedings
shall also take place at Singapore.
12th April, 2013 Intex re-sends the NDA with Singapore  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 81 of 257 jurisdiction. However, it reiterates its objection.
18th April, 2013 Counter-signed NDA is sent by Ericsson to Intex via email and
request for a meeting on 22nd April, 2013 is made in order to clarify the
various questions and concerns of Intex.
23rd April, 2013 An email addressed by Intex to Ericsson requesting them to
confirm the date, time and place in the next week for a meeting.
In reply 29th April at 5.00 PM Intex Office is proposed by Ericsson. Further,
the term sheet is also attached.
25th April, 2013 Meeting on 29th April is confirmed. However, reminders were
sent about the query/ information sought by Intex in its 30th March email.
26th April, 2013 In reply to Intex query as contained in 30th March email,
Ericsson states that:-
a. Ericsson intends to license its entire 2G and 3G Standard Essential
Portfolio to Intex and an example 2G, 3G patent list is provided; b. Due to
confidentiality Ericsson refused to share third party agreements with Intex;
c. Clarifies that the license shall be concluded on the net selling price and
not on chipset basis;
d. Again due to confidentiality, Ericsson refused to share third party
agreement with Intex. However, it is clarified that Ericsson only licenses its
own 2G and 3G patent portfolio;
th 29 April, 2013 Meeting held between Ericsson and Intex along with Intex's
counsel M/S Sai Krishna and Associates.
An email is addressed by Intex wherein various queries to the following effect
were raised:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 82 of 257
a. Identify total number of patents Ericsson intends to license as only a
sample list has been provide and further details are required;
b. Disclose total number of Standard Essential Patents (SEPs) held by Ericsson
Vs. total number of SEPs in respect of 2G and 3G technologies;
c. In light of the confidentiality pleaded by Ericsson, Intex sought advice
from Ericsson qua any alternate reliable and dependable mode on the basis of
which Intex can confirm for itself that the rate stated by Ericsson are FRAND
in nature; d. Details of the extent to which the rates are variable were
sought;
e. Concerns relating to royalty stacking were raised;
6th May, 2013 In reply it was stated by Ericsson that:
> a. As the entire 2G&3G SEP patent portfolio is licensed for a particular
> period - no exact number can be quoted as the same is fluid in nature;
> b. Ericsson owns between 25-35% of the 2G & 3G SEPs;
> c. By referring to various litigations initiated against Ericsson in which
> discovery proceedings have been ordered by Courts, it was stated that if
> there was any major discrepancy between the rates offered by the Ericsson to
> various parties, the same would have been brought to the forefront. Thus,
> the veracity of Ericsson's rates being FRAND could be gauged;
> d. Ericsson has same terms for similar companies and the term sheet shared
> with Intex is applicable to all companies who do not have SEPs to cross
> license;
> e. Ericsson can only license its own patents to Intex;
> f. Phone/handset is the royalty base as it is the infringing product which
> is offered for sale in the market;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 83 of 257
7th May, 2013 An email is addressed by Ericsson to Intex requesting them to
respond on the term sheet.
In reply further time was sought.
13th May, 2013 In light of the fact that sufficient time has lapsed and
Ericsson's Licensing Team would be visiting Delhi, a meeting on 22nd May, 2013
was proposed for discussing the term of GPLA.
14th May, 2013 An email in reply to 6th May, 2013 was addressed by Intex to
Ericsson.
It was stated that certain queries raised by Intex remain unanswered. Further,
various follow-up questions were also raised to the following extent;
Will Ericsson license cover only SEPs?
Whether, in the light of the disclosure on the ETSI website, any other
independent body has determined the percentage of SEPs owned by Ericsson?
i. Evidence to support the rates being offered to Intexare FRAND or not was
sought. ii. Information and clarity with respect to arrangement between ST
Ericsson and Ericsson especially whether a license has been granted by
Ericsson to ST Ericsson i.e. a chipset manufacturer was sought.
iii. Alleged that as Ericsson's patents are towards baseband processor only
and not other parts of mobile handset, the royalty base should be towards the
chipset and not the entire phone. Example of Qualcomm, Intel, Broadcom were
given.
More clarification was sought with respect to royalty stacking.
15th May, 2013 An email addressed by Ericsson to Intex stating that it would
be better to have a face to face  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 84 of 257 meeting
for clarifying Intex's concerns and a meeting for 22nd May, was proposed as
Ericsson's other IPR & Licensing team members will also be present.
16th May, 2013 In reply Intex states that 22nd May, 2013 would not be possible
and request for 23rd of May.
Further via separate email of the same day it was reiterated that certain
queries continue to remain outstanding and further clarifications were sought
especially in the light of the fact that the financial implications involved
for Intex are huge.
The meeting was confirmed by Ericsson and the following in-line response was
provided to Intex's queries:
a. License would be limited to SEPs as per the terms contained in the GPLA;
b. The fact that Ericsson has executed more than 100 license agreements is
evident of the fact that the rates offered by Ericsson are FRAND rates as
Ericsson's patents have been proved by the market and in courts globally;
c. Due to confidentiality clauses terms and conditions of third party
agreements cannot be shared with Intex in the absence of a court order;
d. Ericsson has not licensed ST-Ericsson;
f. The norm for cellular standards essential patent licensing is to license
the provider of the complete product. Further, Intel and Broadcom are not
involved in cellular standards essential patents licensing;
g. Ericsson plays its part in ensuring that the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 85
of 257 rates it charges are reasonable and in proportion to the contribution
made by Ericson to the telecom standards;
17th May, 2013 Intex sought details of participants on behalf of Ericsson.
Same were provided by Ericsson.
18th May, 2013 Intex agreed to a meeting without counsel provided Ericsson
does not bring along with them their own counsel. Further, it was reiterated
that large amount of questions continue to remain unanswered.
23rd May, 2013 Meeting between Ericsson and Intex team where Intex agreed in
principle to the offer made by Ericsson whereby revision was made to the
payment structure.
27th May, 2013 In the light of the meeting between Intex and Ericsson, a
further conference call was proposed by Ericsson to Intex.
Revised term sheet is sought by Intex on the basis of the meeting with
Ericsson. It was stated that the time for conference call can be confirmed
subsequent to the same.
Highlighted by Ericsson that a conference call for Thursday was agreed by
Intex on the last meeting and confirmation was sought.
29th May, 2013 An email was addressed to Ericsson asking them to confirm oral
revised royalty rates as proposed by Ericsson in the meeting. Further, as the
revised rates would require deliberations at the Board Level, thus, the same
were requested prior to the conference call. Claim Chart mapping was  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 86 of 257 also requested.
30th May, 2013 Amended term sheet was provided to Intex by Ericsson. Further,
as initially Intex has stated that they would not require claim chart mapping
- confirmation was sought from Intex whether they are still needed.
Reply email addressed by Intex confirming receipt of the revised term sheet.
However, details for claim chart were sought. It was stated that as
deliberations on the revised term sheet would require certain time, therefore
a conference call in the second week of June was proposed.
4th June, 2013 Request for claim chart was reiterated by Intex.
5th June, 2013 Reply email addressed by Ericsson stating that they have
initiated the process gathering of information. Further, a conference call for
12th of June, 2013 was proposed.
10th June, 2013 The day and date of conference call confirmed by Intex.
Request for claim charts reiterated.
11th June, 2013 Emails were exchanged between parties to change the date and
time of the conference call to 12th of June. Further, it was stated by
Ericsson that it is in the process of arranging claim charts and will share
the same as soon as possible.
12th June, 2013 Conference call held between Ericsson and Intex.
Intex via email stated that it will provide a counter offer to Ericsson
shortly and again requested for a claim chart mapping.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 87 of 257
19th June, 2013 Counter offer was made by Intex to Ericsson and its request
for claim chart mapping was reiterated.
5th July, 2013 Reminder letter sent by Intex to Ericsson stating that it had
not received any reply.
10th July, 2013 Reply email by Ericsson stating that due to Ericsson's
existing licensees (which include majority of the main phone vendors) and
FRAND commitment it will not be possible for Ericsson to consider Intex's
counter offer. It was further stated that Ericson was surprised and
disappointed by Intex's offer especially after it offered Ericsson
commercially sensible rates as the starting point for discussion during their
face to face meeting.
However, it was stated that Ericsson continues to remain available for any
further discussion keeping in view its FRAND considerations.
11th September, Reminder letter sent from Ericsson to Intex 2013 proposing
further discussion as proposed in 10th July, 2013 email.
14th September, An email addressed by Intex to Ericsson 2013 It was stated
that the email vide which Ericsson had declined Intex's counter offer was not
received by Intex and they became aware of the same on 11th September, 2013
after perusing the trailing emails.
It was further stated that accordingly Intex's management has been apprised
about the same & it was reiterated that Intex is open for further discussion
and suggested timing for conference call. Another reminder was given qua the
claim  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 88 of 257 chart mapping.
17th September, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex 2013 Claim charts are
provided to Intex.
The time for conference call as proposed was accepted. Specific request was
made to ensure that Mr. Bansal joins the conference call or in alternative an
offer to meet Mr. Bansal in person at Intex's office was made so that the
meeting is fruitful and the license can be executed in a time bound manner.
18th September, Reply email from Intex 2013 It is stated that claim charts for
only 25 Indian Patents were received and confirmation was sought whether those
were the only patents that were applicable to Intex. It was reiterated that as
Intex is not a technological company it would not be in a position to assess
the total number of patents required from different parties (who claim to be
SEP holders) which are relevant for Intex products. It was also stated that
Intex is unaware about its own requirement qua the 2G, 3G and WCDMA portfolio
of Ericsson i.e. whether they require all the patents or only few.
Accordingly, a request was made to Ericsson to help Intex in order to assess
the same along with the impact of the total royalty demands on Intex. It was
stated that availability of Mr. Bansal is being checked and the same will be
confirmed.
19th September, Email from Ericsson to Intex 2013 It is reiterated that the
license which Ericsson will be granting to Intex will be for the Ericsson's 2G
and 3G portfolio which will be on a term basis i.e.  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
89 of 257 any new patents which are acquired by Ericsson during the term of
the patent license would also be automatically licensed to Intex. As a result
the 25 patents qua which the claim charts have been provided to Intex are not
the only patents which will be licensed.
It was clarified that license for all Standard Essential Patents is necessary.
It was further reiterated that Ericsson would be more than willing to help
Intex in understanding Ericsson's licensing program. However, disability to
assist qua license program of third parties was expressed.
Re Intex offer, it was again clarified that the same was unacceptable to
Ericsson especially in the light of the existing FRAND licenses.
25th September, Email from Intex to Ericsson 2013 Disappointment was expressed
over Ericsson's rejection of Intex's counter offer. It was stated that Intex
expected a reasoned explanation from Ericsson for such rejection which
Ericsson has failed to provide and has instead merely stated that it cannot
consider Intex's offer on the ground that Ericsson has 100+ licenses across
the world. It was stated that Ericsson has never divulged any details of such
third parties with whom it has entered into FRAND license nor has provided any
objective basis of the methodology adopted for arriving at the royalty rates
for such parties.
It was stated that Intex cannot agree to Ericsson's proposed rates without
being satisfied by the commercial reasonableness of such proposal especially
the impact of such royalty  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 90 of 257 quaIntex's
competitors, its market standing etc. It was stated that no negotiations can
fructify or be sustainable until and unless there is transparency,
reasonableness and concern for each other. In the light of the same, it was
stated that Intex's concern be addressed accordingly.
It was reiterated that Intex respects Ericsson's IPR and is keen to take the
matter forward and asked for a time to discuss the same further.
    8th     October, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex wherein the
    2013             following was stated:-
                     A.        Ericsson never rejected to discuss the
counter offer made by Intex, however, the fact that the counter offer was
nowhere close to the agreement in principle reached between both the parties,
the same was not accepted by Ericsson; B. The basis of the methodology adopted
by Ericsson by virtue of which FRAND terms are determined has been explained
by Ericsson to Intex on numerous occasions;
C. Due to confidentiality clause with Ericsson's Licensees it was not
permissible for Ericsson to disclose the names and terms of agreement of any
third parties in absence of an order from the Court;
D. Ericsson has adopted transparency and reasonableness in its negotiations
with Intex, however, Ericsson cannot be expected to forego its confidentiality
liability towards its licensees and disclose confidential information; A
suitable time for meeting for further discussions was requested.
29th October, Email addressed by Ericsson to Intex requesting 2013 for a
meeting with Mr. Bansal especially in the light of the fact that Ericsson's
Director of IPR  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 91 of 257 and Licensing Mr. Max
Olofsson was in Delhi.
    30th    October, Reply email addressed by Intex wherein the
    2013             following was stated:-
A. Intex still awaits Ericsson's response to the query that the royalty rates
should be based on the chipset value and not on the end product;
B. Stated that the revised offer of Ericsson was not accepted by Intex.
Ericsson was requested to revisit its revised rates after taking into
consideration market realities; C. It was stated that one of the major
concerns for Intex was the cumulative royalty demand which may accrue towards
Ericsson and other SEP holders;
D. Its request for a list of Ericsson's Indian Patents which are applicable
only to Mobile phones was still awaited.
It was reiterated that Intex is willing to take a license on FRAND rate and
requested Ericsson to take into account Intex's concerns.
Re the meeting request with Mr. Max Olofsson, it was stated that as the email
was seen late in the day and availability of Mr. Bansal could not be confirmed
and the same can be discussed after Diwali vacations.
28.03.2014 Letter from Ericsson to Intex stating that Intex's conduct has made
it apparent that it is not willing to sign a license with Ericsson. Thus,
Ericsson has no option but to conclude that Intex is no longer interested in
sincerely negotiating a FRAND license.
08.04.2014 Email from Intex to Ericsson claiming that Intex is a willing
licensee. It was further mentioned in the said email that a substantial reply
to Ericsson's  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 92 of 257 letter dated 28.03.2014 will
be issued by Intex by the end of business on 09.04.2014.
10.04.2014 Email from Ericsson to Intex highlighting the numerous attempts
made by Ericsson to offer a FRAND license to Intex and the delaying tactics
adopted by Intex to avoid the execution of FRAND license which clearly shows
Intex's unwillingness to take license from Ericsson.
Further, reference was also made to the various legal proceedings which had
been mala fidely initiated by Intex against Ericsson during the time when
bilateral negotiations were ongoing between both the parties.
14.4.2014 Reply letter from Intex wherein it is stated that Intex has always
been willing to seek a license at FRAND rates with Ericsson.
Reference was made to various letters/emails which were exchanged between both
the parties in the year 2013.
84\. It is evident from the entire communications exchanged between the
parties that the plaintiff has been continuously in touch with defendant and
had held several meetings with defendant including under the aegis of ICA so
as to answer the various queries raised by defendant and other indigenous
mobile companies. But, despite of various meetings and revised payment offer
made by the plaintiff in the meeting the license agreement could not be
executed/materialized.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 93 of 257
85\. The plaintiff reiterates that its patents are essential in nature and the
royalty rates proposed by it are fair and reasonable. This is based on the
following factors:
 Ericsson developed technologies that were presented to ETSI;
 The said technologies in combination with technologies of other companies
became part of the global standards;
 For anyone implementing 2G, EDGE, 3G or LTE standards either in
infrastructure or end user devices, the said standards have to be complied
with;
 If the standards are not complied with, the equipment and the devices cannot
work;
 The said technologies are patented technologies. The patents are thus
Standard Essential Patents;
 When a patented technology forms a part of a standard, the owners of such
patents makes a commitment to offer licenses on FAIR, REASONABLE & NON-
DISCRIMINATORY terms to any prospective licensee qua their Standard Essential
Patents;
 The fact that Ericsson has executed more than 100 licenses qua its 2G and 3G
technologies at broadly the same rates indicates that the license fee demanded
by Ericsson is fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory.
86\. It cannot be denied that the plaintiff has over 100 license agreements
entered into with several of the major handsets/device manufacturers in the
world. It has been Ericsson's practice to license its technologies on fair
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 94 of 257
(FRAND) as per its commitment to SSOs. The said fact has not been specifically
denied by the defendant.
87\. The plaintiff's history in India dates back to 1903 when it supplied its
first manual switch boards to the Govt. of India. The plaintiff has
contributed immensely to the telecom infrastructure in India. Ericsson has
around 20,000 employees across 25 offices in the country. It has also
established a manufacturing unit, a global service organization and state-of-
the-art Research & Development facilities in India.
88\. The plaintiff in its plaint has provided details pertaining to:
    i.     Filing of the suit patents in India;
    ii.    Filing and grant of corresponding patents in several countries
           in the world;
iii. Appropriate examination procedure having been conducted by the Indian
Patent Office;
iv. The fact that no pre-grant or post-grant opposition has been filed against
the suit patents;
It is the plaintiff who started asserting its SEPs against Indian mobile
companies and telecommunication devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.)
vendors such as Micromax, Gionee and the defendant who are infringing its
patents.
89\. Both parties have made their oral submissions and have filed their
written submissions. The plaintiff has also provided the procedure about the
remedy of standard essential patents and notes on FRAND licensing commitment.
Relevant details are mentioned below :
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 95 of 257
i) On 8th January, 2013 the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division
(DOJ) and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), an agency of the U.S.
Department of Commerce, provide inter alia the following perspectives on a
topic of significant interest to the patent and standards setting communities
: whether injunctive relief in judicial proceedings or exclusion orders in
investigations under section 337 of the Tarriff Act of 1930 are properly
issued when a patent holder seeking such a remedy asserts standards-essential
patents that are encumbered by a RAND or FRAND licensing commitment.
ii) The patent system promotes innovation and economic growth by providing
incentives to inventors to apply their knowledge, take risks, and make
investments in research and development and by publishing patents so that
others can build on the disclosed knowledge with further innovations. These
efforts, in turn, benefit society as a whole by disseminating knowledge and by
providing new and valuable technologies, lower prices, improved quality, and
increased consumer choice. The DOJ and USPTO recognize that the right of a
patent holder to exclude others from practicing patented inventions is
fundamental to obtaining these benefits. It is incorporated into section 337
of the Tariff Act of 1930 itself, which forbids the unlawful "importation into
the United States... of articles that .... Infringe a valid and enforceable
United States patent." As noted in the Administration's 2010 Joint Strategic
Plan on Intellectual Property Enforcement, "strong enforcement of intellectual
property rights is an essential part of the Administration's efforts to
promote  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 96 of 257 innovation and ensure that the
U.S. is a global leader in creative and innovative industries." Accordingly,
as historically has been the case, exclusion typically is the appropriate
remedy when an imported good infringes a valid and enforceable U.S. patent.
iii) Standards, and particularly voluntary consensus standards set by
standards-developing organizations (SDOs) have come to play an increasingly
important role in our country.
90\. It is mentioned there that this is not to say that consideration of the
public interest factors set out in the statue would always counsel against the
issuance of an exclusion order to address infringement of a FRAND-encumbered,
standards-essential patent. An exclusion order may still be an appropriate
remedy in some circumstances, such as where the putative licensee is unable or
refuses to take a FRAND license and is acting outside the scope of the patent
holder's commitment to license on FRAND terms. For example, if a putative
licensee refuses to pay what has been determined to be a FRAND royalty, or
refuses to engage in a negotiation to determine FRAND terms, an exclusion
order could be appropriate. Such a refusal could take the form of a
constructive refusal to negotiate, such as by insisting on terms clearly
outside the bounds of what could reasonably be considered to be FRAND terms in
an attempt to evade the putative licensee's obligation to fairly compensate
the patent holder. An exclusion order also could be appropriate if a putative
licensee is not subject to the jurisdiction of a court that could award
damages.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 97 of 257
91\. In the following case the scheme FRAND, FRAND obligation, ESTI Rules, IPR
licensing declaration and ESTI Guide on IPR, Disputes Resolution have been
Analysis and an opinion is also rendered. The details of relevant extract to
the present case are reproduced as under :
> UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION Washington, D.C.
> In the matter of Certain Wireless Devices With 3G and/or capabilities and
> components Inv. No.337-TA-868 Components thereof INITIAL DETERMINATION ON
> VIOLATION OF SECTION 337 AND RECOMMENDED DETERMINATION ON REMEDY AND BOND
> Administrative Law Judge Theodore R. Essex (June 13, 2014)
> i) FRAND - If a defendant did not infringe a valid patent or the patents are
> not essential to the 3G or 4G LTE standard and InterDigital's FRAND, the
> question of obligations does not arise. In case if the defendant infringes
> the asserted patents and that the asserted patents are essential to the 3G
> or 4G LTE standards, then the FRAND obligations are mandatory as under the
> standard setting organization "European Telecommunication Standards
> Institute." (ETSI) It is an organization that creates globally applicable
> standards in the information and communication technology industry.
ETSI was formed in 1988 with a goal to create a uniform telecommunications
market in Europe. It is officially recognized by, the European Union for this
purpose. Today, ETSI has more than 700 members including many of the world's
leading companies and R&D organizations, and its standards are practiced
globally. (CX-3941C.) Much of the work of ETSI is earned out by technical
bodies called  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 98 of 257 committees, which meet
throughout the year, during which time the members work together to define
ETSI's standards. The committees that ^e relevant for this matter are the TIA
and ITU. TIA stands for telecommunications Industry Association. It is also a
standard setting organization focused on the telecommunication industry. It
currently has more than 500 members. The ITU is the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU). TIA was involved in the development of CDMA2000
technology. CDMA2000 is a standard developed by the Third General Partnership
Project 2, or 3GPP2, which was commissioned by the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU). TIA is one of the five standard setting
organisations involved in 3GPP2. The CDMA2000 standard was also approved
internationally by the ITU.
ii) InterDigital's obligations as a result of its membership in ETSI are
created by the terms of the "IPR Information statement and licensing
declaration" which is part of ETSI Rules of Procedure, 30 November 2011
(CX-2555C) :
> ETSI Rules of Procedure, 30 November 2011 3 Policy Objectives 3.1 It is
> ETSI's objective to create STANDARDS and TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS that are
> based on solutions which best meet the technical objectives of the European
> telecommunications sector, as defined by the General Assembly. In order to
> further this objective the ETSI IPR POLICY seeks to reduce the risk to ETSI,
> MEMBERS, and others applying ETSI STANDARDS and TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS,
> that investment in the preparation, adoption and application of STANDARDS
> could be wasted as a result of an ESSENTIAL IPR for a STANDARD or TECHNICAL
> SPECIFICATION being unavailable. In achieving this objective, the ETSI IPR
> POLICY seeks a balance between the needs of standardization for CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 99 of 257 public use in the field of telecommunications
> and the rights of the owners of IPRs.
> 3.2 IPR holders whether members of ETSI and their AFFILIATES or third
> parties. should be adequately and fairly rewarded for the use of their IPRs
> in the implementation of STANDARDS and TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.
> 3.3 ETSI shall take reasonable measures to ensure, as far as possible, that
> its activities which relate to the preparation, adoption and application of
> STANDARDS and TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS, enable STANDARDS and TECHNICAL
> SPECIFICATIONS to be available to potential users in accordance with the
> general principles of standardization.
> 6 Availability of Licences 6.1 When an ESSENTIAL IPR relating to a
> particular STANDARD or TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION is brought to the attention
> of ETSI, the Director- General ofETSI shall immediately request the owner to
> give within three months an irrevocable undertaking in writing that it is
> prepared to grant irrevocable licences on fair, reasonable and non-
> discriminatory terms and conditions under such IPR to at least the following
> extent :
> MANUFACTURE, including the right to make or have made customized components
> and sub-systems to the licensee's own design for use in MANUFACTURE;
> sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of EQUIPMENT so MANUFACTURED-
> repair, use, or operate EQUIPMENT; and use METHODS.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 100 of 257
The above undertaking may be made subject to the condition that those who seek
licenses agree to reciprocate. In the event a MEMBER assigns or transfers
ownership of an ESSENTIAL IPR that it disclosed to ETSI, the MEMBER shall
exercise reasonable efforts to notify the assignee or transferee of any
undertaking it has made to ETSI pursuant to Clause 6with regard to that
ESSENTIAL IPR (CX-2555C). it is important to note the ETSI Rules of Procedure
is not a contract, but it contains rules to guide the parties in their
interactions with the organization, other members and third parties. The first
goal of the policy is that the IPR owner be "adequately and fairly rewarded
for the use of their IPRs in the implementation of STANDARDS and TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS."
iii) It is also important to note that the IPR owner does not agree to license
the intellectual property owned under FRAND terms, but only agrees to do so
under certain conditions. The agreement itself does not define what "adequate
and fairy rewarded" means, nor does it provide any mechanism to determine what
those words mean. The agreement in paragraph 12, Law and Regulation states:
"Any right granted to, and any obligation imposed on, a MEMBER which derives
from French law and which are not already contained in the national or
supranational law applicable to that MEMBER is to be understood as being of
solely a contractual nature." Under the French law of contract, the agreement
is not a contract itself, but rather an agreement in principal. (CX-393.4.)
While there is French law that allows a contract to be made without including
the price in the contract, (RX-0075-0077) the ETSI documents in question
create many more factors that must be examined before the FRAND obligation is
triggered.
iv) Complainant's obligation in this case is contingent on a condition
precedent in the IPR licensing declarations it CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 101 of
257 signed. In Annex 6Appendix A, the IPR Licensing Declaration Forms state:
"This irrevocable undertaking is made subject to the condition that those who
seek licenses agree, to reciprocate (check box if applicable)." This same
condition is available on each license form offered by ETSI:
IPR licensing declaration The Declarant has notified ETSI that it is the
proprietor of the IPRs listed in Annex 2and has informed ETSI that it believes
that the PRs may be considered, or may come to be considered, ESSENTIAL IPRs
generally in relation to 3GPP Declarant and/or its AFFILIATES hereby declare
that, with respect to any of the IPRs listed in Annex 2that are ESSENTIAL IPRs
and for as long as such IPRs remain ESSENTIAL IPRs, they are prepared to grant
irrevocable licenses under such ESSENTIAL IPRs on terms and conditions which
are in accordance with Clause 6.1 of the ETSI IPR Policy of sufficient scope
to enable a licensee to implement a STANDARD. The Declarant and/or its
AFFILIATES reserve the right to subject any license offer or grant to the
condition that those who seek licenses reciprocate on terms and Conditions
which are in accordance with Clause 6.1 of the ETSI IPR Policy.
(CX-2692C CX-2695C, CX-2700C.)
v) It is noteworthy that while InterDigital has an obligation to declare its
TP that might become essential, there is nothing in the agreement that
requires the company that makes the declaration to confirm that a patent is
essential once a standard is adopted. The Declaration is never confirmed, and
often patents that are declared as perhaps reading on a standard will, at a
later date, be shown not to be Standard Essential Patents. This proved to be
the case in Wireless Devices with 3G Capabilities and Components Thereof,
337-TA-800. There, AU Shaw found that the asserted patents, having been
declared by InterDigital, were CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 102 of 257 not SEPs
and were not infringed. This has happened with a certain degree of frequency
in such matters.
vi) In case any party creates the situation that it is outside of the
framework of the ETSI agreement a situation where they use the technology that
may be covered by the patent, without-having licensed it. This puts pressure
on the IPR owner to settle as the owner is not compensated during a period of
exploitation of the IP by the unlicensed parties. The ETSI IPR Policy requires
companies that wish to use the IPR covered by the agreements to contact the
owner of the IP, and, take a license. (CX-3860C.) By skipping this step, the
companies that use the IPR in violation of the policy are able to exert a
pressure on the negotiations with the IPR holder to try to make the agreement
in the lower range of FRAND, or perhaps even lower than a reasonable FRAND
rate. They also are able to shift the risk involved in patent negotiation to
the patent holder. By not paying for a FRAND license and negotiating in
advance of the use of the IPR, they force the patent holder to take legal
action. In this action, the patent owner can lose the IPR they believe they
have, but if the patent holder wins they gets no more than a FRAND solution,
that is, what they should have gotten under the agreement in the first place.
xxxx xxxx xxxx
vii) Using the "patented" technology prior to negotiating with InterDigital
for a license is a violation of the ETSI Rules of Procedure as well.
(CX-2555C; CX-3860C.) While this section of the ETSI rules requires the IPR
holder to be prepared to offer a license, it also requires the companies that
would use the technology to seek a license as well (The above undertaking may
be made subject to the condition that those who seek licenses agree to
reciprocate) (CX-2555C) Within the four comers of the agreement, there appears
to be no provision made for companies that simply choose to infringe, and then
demand FRAND status when caught.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 103 of 257
viii) ETSI makes it clear that it will not be part of any commercial
negotiations between the parties regarding IPR that has been declared:
> ETSI Guide on IPRs, 27 November 2008 2.2 Members do NOT have a duty to:
> Conduct IPR searches (see Clause 4.2 of the IPR Policy).
> disclose within the Technical Body the commercial terms for licenses for
> which they have undertaken to grant licenses under FRAND terms and
> conditions.
Any such commercial terms are a matter for discussion between the IPR holder
and the potential licensee, outside of ETSI (see section 4.1 of this Guide).
CX3912 However, the organization does provide steps for members to follow
should they believe the negotiations are failing or the other parties are not
complying with the ETSI rules:
> 4.3 Dispute Resolution ETSI Members should attempt to resolve any dispute
> related to the application of the IPR Policy bilaterally in a friendly
> manner.
> Should this fail, the Members concerned are invited to inform the ETSI GA
> case a friendly mediation can be offered by other ETSI Members and/or the
> ETSI Secretariat.
> However, it should be noted that once an IPR (patent) has been granted, in
> the absence of an agreement between the parties involved, the national
> courts of law CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 104 of 257 have the sole authority to
> resolve IPR disputes. CX-
3912
> The ETSI dispute resolution agreement does not bar any legal proceeding from
> the parties, but in absence of an agreement instructs the parties to look to
> the law of the nation where the dispute exists. When looking at this
> wording, it is clear that the agreement did not intend to, and does not bar
> any remedy as beyond the reach of the parties. Reading this paragraph in
> light of the previous ones makes it clear the duty required by ETSI is only
> one to negotiate in good faith. There are duties required under ETSI on
> those that would take a license as well.
> ix) In this case, there is no evidence that the Commission ought to go
> beyond the statue, and assume that the remedy of an exclusion order should
> be removed from the case. Neither the agreements imposed by ETSI, nor the
> law nor public policy requires us to offer the Respondents a safe haven,
> where they are free to avoid their own obligations under the agreements, can
> manufacture potentially infringing goods without license or consequence, can
> seek to invalidate the IPR in question, and yet are free from the risk of a
> remedy under 19 USC 1337. This one sided administration of law is against
> both the Administrative Procedure Act 5 USC 554 and Commission regulation 19
> CFR 200.735-101.
92\. In order to understand the procedure of Standardization and Essential
Patents are referred as under :
Country 1 Country 2 Country 3 Country 4 INCOMPATIBLE TECHNOLOGIES
(STANDARDIZATION NEEDED) STANDARDIZATION BODIES (e.g. ETSI)  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 105 of 257 Company 1 Company 2 Company 3 Company 4
Technologies of Company 1 & 3 adopted as Standard Company 1 & 3 has Valid
Granted Patents for the said technologies (Such Patents are known as Standard
Essential Patents)
93\. Similarly, the obligations on the parties are mentioned below :
Commitment on part of a Standard Essential Patent Holder To be prepared to
grant licenses on Fair Reasonable and Non-discriminatory terms (FRAND) to
manufacture, sell etc of Equipment compliant with the standard Obligations on
the companies according to the Patents Act,  1970 Companies selling compliant
Equipment are required to seek License from patent holder in order not to
infringe:
        Entity 1              Entity 2               Entity 3            Entity 4
                 Accept                                         No
                 Licenses                                  Royalty
                 & Pay                                          Paid
                 Royalties
        No Infringement                                  Infringement
94\. The plaintiff has placed on record the guidelines to be adopted in
respect of Standardization and Essential Patents, as per the details provided
:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 106 of 257
• Technical Specifications that define a particular technology (2G, 3G etc.)
and the manner of its operation/functioning are adopted by standardization
bodies like ETSI through consensus;
• Consensus is obtained from the members of the standardization bodies, which
consist of equipment manufacturers, service provides, telephone operators,
national & international regulatory authorities etc;
• These specifications are then necessarily followed for operating a
particular technology in order to ensure interoperability;
• When a patent covers a particular component/element/device/ method etc.
corresponding to the technical specification for a concerned technology, it is
regarded as an essential patent for that particular technology;
• It is impossible to claim compatibility with a technology or compliance to a
standard, without actually infringing the said patent which is part of the
standard qua a technology;
94.1 Essential Patents and Infringement  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 107 of 257
94.2 AMR Technology • AMR i.e. Adaptive Multi-Rate is an audio data
compression scheme optimized for speech coding.
• Coder/Decoder that use AMR compression scheme are known as AMR Codec.
• AMR Codec encodes narrowband (200-3400Hz) signals at variable bit rates
ranging from 4.75 to 12.2 kbps.
• There are a total of 14 modes of the AMR codec, 8 are available in a full
rate channel (FR) and 6 on a half rate channel (HR).
• AMR was adopted as the standard speech codec by 3GPP in October 1999.
95\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has been able to demonstrate before the
Court that demand of the plaintiff as royalty from the defendant is not
different than from other parties. It is argued that the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 108 of 257 defendant is without any valid reason confusing the issue in
the mind of the Court, otherwise there is no malafide intention on the part of
plaintiff in any manner. The revised rates as offered by Plaintiff to the
Defendant and the rates recorded in the aforesaid interim arrangement orders
passed in the other Suits are being extracted hereunder:
> Rates offered to Intex Rates offered to Rates offered Gionee to Micromax
> Revised Term Sheet Order dated 31st Order dated dated 29th May 2013 October
> 2013 in 19th March CS(OS)2010/2013 2013 in CS(OS) IN 442/2013.
       GSM                          1.5 %                      1.25%           1.25%
                        1.00%       (inside   1.5%
                        India)
                                              (Outside
                                              India)
       GPRS +GSM                    2.25 %                     1.75%           1.75%
                              1.25%           2.25%
                          (Inside India)      (Outside
                                              India)
       EDGE + GPRS                  2.25%                       2%               2%
       +GSM
                                 1.5%         2.25%
                          (Inside India)      (Outside
                                               India)
       WCDMA/HSPA                   2.25%                       2%               2%
       Phones or
       Devices                1.75%           2.25%
                          (Inside India)      (Outside
                                               India)
        CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                                      Page 109 of 257
> 96\. Let me now deal with the submissions of learned counsel appearing on
> behalf of both parties and the objections raised by the defendant in its
> pleadings wherein it is stated that the suit patents are invalid and the
> claims raised are not tenable and are liable to be revoked.
Section - 8
97\. The first objection raised by the defendant is about the non compliance
of Section 8 of the Act which according to the defendant is mandatory and in
the absence thereto, the suit patents cannot be as considered valid patent.
The defendant has given the details and documents which were provided to the
patent office. Copies of the same have been filed before this Court.
98\. It is alleged by the defendant that the Plaintiff has obtained each and
every one of its Suit Patents by committing a fraud on the Indian Patent
Office in order to secure patents over un-patentable subject- matter with
unduly broad claims. As the Defendant's prior-filed pending revocation
petitions, and the defences raised herein pose a credible challenge to the
validity of the Suit patents, they cannot be and ought not to be enforced
under the Intellectual Property Rights (Imported Goods) Enforcement Rules,
2007.
99\. It is submitted by the plaintiff that it has complied with Section 8 of
the Act and is not guilty of holding back any material information or detail
related to foreign prosecution history or a foreign patent/filing with respect
to the suit patents. Plaintiff has filed all the relevant details both at the
stage of filing of the patent applications as also at the stage  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 110 of 257 of examination of the suit patents in India.
Thus, the present objection is being raised in an attempt to agitate
invalidity of the suit patents.
100\. Both the parties have referred various documents in support of their
submissions on this issue. The said details of their arguments on each patent
are mentioned as under :
(A) IN IN203034 ('034 PATENT) In the case of the '034 patent, as per
defendant's case, following are the violations of the Plaintiff under Section
8(1) of the Act, i.e. examination reports issued by the Japanese Patent Office
in JP Application No.2000-570771 were not disclosed; examination reports
issued by the US Patent Office in US Application No.09/ 396,300 on April 24,
2001, September 20, 2001, March 22, 2002 and June 20, 2002 were not disclosed;
and incorrect details were submitted to the Indian Patent Office with respect
to the Swedish Application No.SE9803164-4.
Under Section 8(2) of the Act, the Examination reports issued by the US Patent
Office in US Application No.09/ 396,300 on April 24, 2001, September 20, 2001,
March 22, 2002 and June 20, 2002 ought to have been brought to the notice of
the Indian Patent Office since these reports resulted in reducing the scope of
the originally filed US claims vide amendment to the claims filed by the
Plaintiff on July 12, 2001, January 9, 2002, June 3, 2002 and August 21, 2002.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 111 of 257
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'034 Patent is 16/09/1998 and it
was filed in India on 09/03/2001.
The first Form 3 disclosure was made on the date of filing of the Patent
itself i.e., on 09/03/2001. In this Form 3, the details of the Swedish
priority application and the PCT application filed on 24/08/1999 were duly
provided. In the First Examination Report, IPO requested for details from
major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and JPO etc., while submitting the
response to the FER, on 22/07/2005, Ericsson also submitted a second Form 3
detailing that the Patent has been granted in USA, EPO and such information
regarding almost 14 other countries was provided, wherein, it was also
informed that an application for grant of a patent was pending in Japan. Also,
the copies of the claims as granted in USA and EPO along with the prosecution
details were submitted along with the said response and Form 3 dated
22/07/2005.
The Plaintiff was indeed in possession of a corresponding Patent in Taiwan,
bearing Application No. TW19990115999 (8811599), filed through PCT route in
Taiwan, having priority date as 16/09/1998, published on 23/06/2001 and
granted on 19/10/2001 as Patent No. TW442776.
(B) IN IN203036 ('036 Patent) Following are the violations of the Plaintiff
under Section 8 with respect to the '036 Patent, i.e. the Plaintiff did not
disclose the examination report issued by the US Patent Office in US
Application  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 112 of 257 No.09/ 144,961 on January 21,
2000 and the Plaintiff's response dated June 21, 2000 and in the Plaintiff's
European application EP Application No.99946485.2, the objection report dated
September 26, 2001, the Plaintiff's response dated February 6, 2002 and the
amended claims filed along with the said response were not disclosed from the
Indian Patent Office.
Although an express request for supply for foreign objection reports was made
by the Indian Patent Office in its First Examination Report dated 14th June,
2004, none of the above objections were placed before the Indian Controller of
Patents for his consideration. The Defendant has placed on record the said
reports and the amendments carried out by the Plaintiff. Further, a
comparative chart has been filed which clearly establishes that the finally
granted Indian Claims are broader than the finally granted claims in the
Plaintiff's foreign patents, which proves that the suppression before the
Indian Patent office yielded a material advantage to the Plaintiff.
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'036 Patent is 01/09/1998 and it
was filed in India on 14/03/2001. The first Form 3 disclosure was made on the
date of filing of the Patent itself i.e., on 14/03/2001. In this Form 3, the
details of the US priority application and the PCT application filed on
06/08/1999 were duly provided. In the First Examination Report, the Patent
office requested for details from major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and
JPO etc., while submitting the response to the FER, on 05/07/2005, Ericsson
submitted a second Form 3 dated 05/07/2005  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 113 of
257 detailing that the Patent has been granted in USA, EPO, JPO and such
information regarding almost 17 other countries along with the corresponding
patents as granted in US and EP were provided.
(C) IN IN203686 ('686 Patent) In the case of the '686 patent, following are
the violations of the Plaintiff under Section 8(1) of the Act, i.e. the
examination report issued by the US Patent Office in US Application No.09/
150,046 on July 18, 2001 and the Plaintiff's response dated October 17, 2001
were not disclosed and the examination report issued by the US Patent Office
in US Application No.09/ 150,046 on January 9, 2002 and the Plaintiff's
response dated April 9, 2002 were not disclosed.
Both these examination reports raised material objections to the Plaintiff's
patent application, and yet the Plaintiff did not deem it necessary to place
them before the Indian Patent Office. The concealment of the US office actions
also amounts to violation of Section 8(2) of the Act since an express request
was made by the Indian Patent Office for supply of foreign examination
reports/ objections.
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'686 Patent is 16/09/1998 and it
was filed in India on 22/03/2001. The first Form 3 disclosure was made on the
date of filing of the Patent itself i.e., on 22/03/2001. In this Form 3, the
details of the US priority application and the PCT application filed on
03/09/1999 were duly provided. In the First Examination Report, the Patent
office requested for details from major Patent Offices such as  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 114 of 257 USPTO, EPO and JPO etc. While submitting its
response to the FER, on 05/05/2005, Ericsson submitted a second Form 3
detailing that a Patent has been granted in the USA and such information
regarding almost 10 other countries on 05/05/2005 was also provided. Details
of applications pending in Europe, Japan etc were disclosed. Also, the copy of
the granted US patent (6452941) was duly submitted along with the said
response and Form 3.
Further, details pertaining to US 6256487 have been incorporated by reference
in US6452941 (corresponding US patent to IN '686) from which priority has been
claimed by the subject patent. The details of the Priority claimed are clearly
mentioned in Form 1. The referenced patent, for anyone who is familiar with
Patent prosecution is the referenced patent mentioned in the US priority
patent which is clearly disclosed in Form 1. In fact references to the said
patent are contained in the main body of the complete specification at pages
11 & 12\. A copy of the duly granted US 6452941 containing the aforesaid
reference was provided by the Plaintiff to the Patent Office. Though the
objective of both US '941 (IN '686) and US '487 (IN '702) is the same i.e. to
develop a radio communication system and station wherein by way of improved
transmission of mode information, overhead bit rates are reduced so as to
optimize the usage of bandwidth efficiently. However, the radio communication
system, station and method as disclosed in US '941 (IN '686) and US '487 (IN
'702) are completely different inasmuch as US '941 (IN '686) discloses and
teaches decimation of rate of transmission of mode information to  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 115 of 257 reduce the bandwidth utilization associated
therewith and/or permit heavier channel coding of the mode information;
US '487 (IN '702) discloses and teaches use of relatively weak channel coding
to protect mode information transmitted over the air interface so as to
minimize the overhead bit transmission thereby maximizing user data throughput
for a give resource allocation;
Thus, both IN '686 and IN '702 stand on their own sound independent footing
without any reliance on each other qua validity or sufficiency of disclosure.
(D) IN IN213723 ('723 Patent) In the case of the '723 patent, the Plaintiff
violated Section 8(1) of the Act by not bringing to the notice of the Indian
Patent Office the office actions dated February 13, 2002, September 11, 2002,
May 28, 2003, December 18, 2003, June 7, 2004, December 17, 2004 and September
9, 2005 issued with respect to the US counterpart of IN'723. This also amounts
to violation of Section 8(2) since they were not supplied when asked for by
the Indian Patent Office. Pertinently, the claim amendments undertaken by the
Plaintiff in its US application on June 13, 2002, November 11, 2002, January
9, 2003, June 9, 2003, March 22, 2004, September 7, 2004, March 11, 2005 and
December 7, 2005 resulted in narrowing down the scope of the Plaintiff's US
patent claims. None of these brought to the attention of the Indian Controller
of Patents.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 116 of 257
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN 723 Patent is 23/11/1998 and it
was filed in India on 11/05/2001. The first Form 3 disclosure was made on the
date of filing of the Patent itself i.e., on 11/05/2001. In this Form 3, the
details of both the US priority applications and the PCT application filed on
08/11/1999 were duly provided. In the First Examination Report, the Patent
office requested for details from major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and
JPO etc. While submitting the response to the FER, on 24/04/2007, Ericsson
also submitted a second Form 3 detailing that the Patent has been granted in
USA, Europe and such information regarding almost 18 other countries on
24/04/2007, wherein, it was also informed that an application for grant of
patent was pending in Japan. Also, copies of granted USA and EP Patents were
submitted along with the said response and Form 3.
(E) IN IN234157 ('157 Patent) With respect to the '157 patent, the Plaintiff
had violated Section 8(1) by concealing from the Indian Patent Office that it
had filed a related application in the US, Application No.11/ 007,373 to the
US counterpart, US Application No.09/ 395,909, of the '157 patent. Neither the
filing of the said related application in the US nor its history was ever
disclosed to the Indian Patent Office. The Plaintiff also failed to disclose
to the Indian Patent Office its responses dated March 09, 2004 and December
06, 2004 to US objections dated October 9, 2003 and October 18, 2004. With
respect to its EP Application No.99 951  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 117 of 257
292.4, the Plaintiff did not disclose its response dated January 28, 2005 to
Examination Report dated October 12, 2004.
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'157 Patent is 16/09/1998 and it
was filed in India on 2/03/2001 via the national phase PCT route. As per the
IPER (International Preliminary Examination Report) all the 25 claims of IN
'157 were found to possess novelty, inventive step and industrial
applicability. The first Form-3 disclosure was made on the date of filing of
the Patent itself i.e., on 02/03/2001. In this Form 3, the details of the
Swedish priority application and the PCT application filed on 24/08/1999 were
duly provided. In the First Examination Report, the Patent office requested
for details from major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and JPO etc. While
submitting the response to the FER, on 16/05/2005, Ericsson also submitted a
second Form 3 detailing that the Patent is pending to be granted in USA,
Europe and such information regarding almost 12 other countries was provided.
Also, copies of the prosecution details from USPTO and EPO were submitted
along with the said response and Form 3 on 16/05/2005. (F) IN IN240471 ('471
Patent) In the '471 patent, the Plaintiff has failed to disclose the
information under Section 8(1) by not disclosing the statuses of multiple
related foreign patent applications such as AR2000P102453, AT20000931815T,
AU20000049635, BR2000PI10645, CN20008010364, DE20006040066, EP20000931815,
ES20000931815T, JP20000619224T, TW20000108397, despite  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 118 of 257 having had several occasions to make the disclosure. With
respect to Section 8(2), the Plaintiff chose not to deliberately disclose the
objections raised by the US Patent office in its reports dated May 24, 2001,
September 24, 2001 and January 08, 2002. These objections/ reports are
critical since they resulted in the Plaintiff undertaking significant
amendments to the scope of its claims vide its responses dated July 13, 2001,
December 7, 2001 and April 8, 2002. Again with respect to its EP patent
EP20000931815, the Plaintiff suppressed the objection report dated 31.01.2006.
Further, the Plaintiff failed to apprise the Indian Controller of the office
action dated 10.04.2003 issued with respect to its Australian Patent
AU20000049635. Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'471 Patent is
19/05/1999. It was filed in India on 12/11/2001. The first Form 3 disclosure
was made on the date of filing of the Patent itself i.e., on 12/11/2001. In
this Form 3, the details of the US priority application and the PCT
application filed on 9th May, 2000 were duly provided. In the First
Examination Report, the Patent office requested for details from major Patent
offices. While submitting the response to the FER, on 03/02/2005, Ericsson
submitted a second Form 3 detailing that a Patent has been granted in its
favour in the USA. It is most respectfully submitted that IN '471 was filed as
a national phase patent application via PCT route (PCT/SE00/00914) and it is
pertinent to state herein that as per the IPER (International Preliminary
Examination Report) all the 63 claims (initially filed) of IN '471 were found
to possess novelty, inventive step  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 119 of 257 and
industrial applicability. Thereafter, while prosecuting the aforesaid national
phase application copy of the corresponding granted US patent was duly
provided by Ericsson.
(G) IN IN229632 ('632 Patent) In the case of the '632 patent, the Plaintiff
violated Section 8(1) by not supplying information with respect to the
statuses of foreign patent applications AR980104755, KR87115600 and MY9804371.
As regards Section 8(2), examination reports of the USPTO dated October 25,
2000 and May 18, 2001 and the Plaintiff's responses dated on March 5, 2001 and
on June 27, 2001, wherein claims were narrowed down, were suppressed from the
Indian Patent Office. The consequence of suppression of US reports has been
explained by way of detailed comparative charts filed by the Defendant.
Further, despite an express request made by the Controller in his Examination
Report dated February 10, 2004, for supply of objections and finally granted
claims in foreign applications, the Plaintiff chose to not supply documents
relating to PCT/ SE98/ 01593, EP98945677/ 7, AR980104755, AU9286498CA2303065,
CN98809427/ 4, JP2000513423, KR87115600, MY9804371, TW87115600 and ZA98/ 8426.
In other words, not a single objection report with respect to any of these 10
foreign applications was supplied by the Plaintiff to the Indian Patent
Office.
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'632 Patent is 24/09/1997 and it
was filed in India on 18/09/1998. The first Form 3 disclosure was made on the
date  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 120 of 257 of filing of the Patent itself i.e.,
on 18/09/1998. In this Form 3, the details of both the US priority
applications were disclosed. Vide Form 4 dated 20/01/1999, further details of
the PCT Application dated 08/09/1998 along with 4 other countries were duly
informed to the Patent Office in the form of a statement and undertaking under
section
8\. Thereafter, another Form 3 dated 26/09/2002 was filed detailing inter alia
the grant of the corresponding US patent and copy of the same was duly
provided to the Patent Office. In the First Examination Report, the Patent
office requested for details from major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and
JPO etc. While submitting response to the FER, on 09/06/2005, Ericsson again
submitted a third Form 3, detailing that Patents have been granted in Europe
and Japan and such information regarding almost 10 other countries were
provided. Copies of the granted US Patent no. 6363058, the published PCT
application and the ISR report along with cited references were provided by
the Plaintiff to the Controller.
(H) IN IN241747 ('747 Patent) With respect to the '747 patent, the Plaintiff
has violated Section 8(1) by not bringing to the attention of the Indian
Patent Office the examination reports dated April 13, 2000 and July 27, 2000
issued by the USPTO in relation to the US counterpart of the '747 patent. The
suppression of these documents is also a violation of Section 8(2) since they
were not supplied to the Indian Patent Office despite an express request made
by the Controller of Patents. This is all the more so since the originally
filed US claims were narrowed down vide  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 121 of 257
amendment to the claims filed by the Plaintiff on July 10, 2000 and on October
27, 2000. The consequence of suppression of US reports has been explained by
way of detailed comparative charts filed by the Defendant.
Reply of the Plaintiff The priority date of IN'747 Patent is 29/08/1997. It
was filed in India on 24/08/1998. For this particular patent, the IPO was
updated about the particulars of corresponding foreign patents/patent
applications at least five times by making disclosures in Form 3. The very
first Form 3/4 was filed on the date of filing of the Patent itself i.e., on
24/08/1998 which had the details of the US priority application. Later on,
three Form 3/4 disclosures were made on 12/11/1998, 06/06/2002 and on
28/01/2005 wherein details of pending applications/granted patents in other
jurisdictions, fact of grant of US & Taiwan patent and pendency of EP patent
application & details of grant of patents in Australia, China etc. along with
pendency of patent applications in other jurisdictions were provided
respectively. Further, when in the First Examination Report, the Patent office
requested for details from major Patent Offices such as USPTO, EPO and JPO
etc., while submitting the response to the FER, on 27/12/2005, Ericsson
provided updated information regarding patent application in almost 12
countries through another Form 3 dated 27/12/2005. Copy of the granted US
patent being US 6208663 was duly provided to the Controller.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 122 of 257
101\. The decision relied upon by the defendant in the case of Chemtura
Corporation vs. Union of India (UOI) and Ors. has no bearing in the facts of
the present case as the claims in that case were narrowed down to restrict
them only to the "toroidal/torus shape of compression spring" in US and
Europe. The argument of the plaintiff is that whereas the scope of claims of
Indian patent was not narrowed down. Further, the claims as granted in US and
EU were not provided to the Indian Patent Office. In fact incorrect and false
statements were made in response to the FER issued by the Indian patent office
"that there has been no further development subsequent to the Form 3 which was
filed at the time of filing of the application in India. On the facts of the
case it was found that narrowing down of the claims in US would have bearing
on the scope of Indian Patent Claims. Claims as granted in US and Europe have
been provided to the Indian Patent Office. Amendments made in the US were only
clarificatory in nature and the scope of final granted claims India is the
same as in US and Europe.
102\. Even otherwise this Court in the case of Maj. (Retd.) Sukesh Behl & Anr.
vs. Koninklijke Phillips Electronics passed in FAO(OS) No.16/2014 on 7th
November, 2014 held in paras 37 to 40 held as under :
> "37. In the present case, it is no doubt true that it is mandatory to comply
> with the requirements under Section 8(1) of the Patents Act and non-
> compliance of the same is one of the grounds for revocation of the patents
> under Section 64(1)(m). However, the fact that the word "may" is used in
> Section 64(1) itself indicates the intention of the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
> Page 123 of 257 legislature that the power conferred thereunder is
> discretionary. The mere fact that the requirement of furnishing information
> about the corresponding foreign applications under Section 8(1) is
> mandatory, in our opinion, is not the determinative factor of the
> legislative intent of Section 64(1). We found that the language of Section
> 64(1) is plain and unambiguous and it clearly confers a discretion upon the
> authority/Court while exercising the power of revocation. The interpretation
> of the provisions of Section 64(1) as discretionary, in our considered
> opinion, does not result in absurdity nor in any way effect the rigour of
> the mandatory requirements under Section 8 of the Act.
38\. Therefore, we are of the view that though any violation of the
requirement under Section 8 may attract Section 64(1)(m) for revocation of the
patent, such revocation is not automatic.
39\. In Chemtura Corporation Case (supra), this Court was dealing with grant
of injunction under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 of CPC. Having recorded a prima
facie satisfaction that there had been a failure by the plaintiff to comply
with the mandatory requirement of Section 8(1), this Court held that the
interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff cannot be continued. The
question whether the power conferred under Section 64(1) of the Patents Act
for revocation of the patent is discretionary or mandatory neither fell for
consideration nor adjudicated by the Court in the said decision. Therefore,
the learned Single Judge had rightly distinguished Chemutra Corporation Case
(supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellants/defendants.
40\. For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the view that the power to revoke a
patent under Section 64(1) is discretionary and consequently it is necessary
for the Court to consider the question as to whether the omission on the part
of the plaintiff was intentional or whether it was a mere clerical and
bonafide error."
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 124 of 257
103\. Section 8 of the Act is a provision, which has been enacted in India
imposing an obligation upon a patentee to disclose foreign prosecution details
about the corresponding foreign applications/granted patents. The purpose and
object of Section 8 is that there should be full and true disclosure and that
the Indian Patent Office should be fully assisted in the examination process
by the proceedings in other Patent Offices. But, it does not mean that the
claims granted in every country have to be exactly the same as thee may be
some differences in the patents which are ultimately granted in different
countries. So long as Indian Patent Office informed of all the major
jurisdictions in which patents have been granted and substantial details are
placed on record, the obligation of complying with Section 8 stands satisfied
unless the Controller of Patents seeks some more detail(s) in order to satisfy
his own conscious in order to understand the compliance of said provision. The
said Section should not be interpreted in the manner that every shred of paper
filed in every foreign country has to be filed in the Indian Patent Office.
104\. In the present case, the plaintiff prima facie had placed on record in
Form-3 details of all the granted patents in other countries and supporting
documents. From the material placed before the Controller if indicates that
the substantial details are provided for the purpose of deciding the present
application for interim order as at this stage the Court has only to take the
prima facie view on the basis of material placed on record. The defendant in
its revocation petition has already taken the same objection, therefore, final
finding in this regard cannot  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 125 of 257 arrived at
present as there is no violation of Section 8 due to non-filing of said few
details. Thus, even it is insufficient for defendant to contend that Section 8
has been violated without indicating the effect of alleged non-compliance or
without showing lack of bonafide on part of plaintiff.
105\. The obligation of Section 8 cannot be so stressed in an action for
infringement of patent is concerned, otherwise the injunction despite of
infringement cannot be granted in any matter for such a plea which appears to
be false and frivolous. The same is not the scheme of the law.
106\. After having gone through the reply to the objection raised by the
defendant, prima facie, this Court is not inclined to refuse the injunction on
this sole ground as the defendant has no serious challenge to the validity of
the suit patents is evident even otherwise from the fact that defendant has
been put to notice of Ericsson's patents in December 2008. Having had
knowledge of these patents for so many years, defendant never seriously
questioned or disputed the validity of these patents. It was only when
plaintiff started asserting its legal rights in the suit patents against third
parties such as Micromax, Gionee etc. that revocation petitions were lodged by
defendant before the IPAB.
Section 3(k) and Section 3(m)
107\. The second plea raised by the defendant against the suit patents is that
the suit patents are invalid, they are wrongly registered contrary to the
provisions of Section 3(k) and Section 3(m) of Patents  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 126 of 257 Act. The argument of the defendant is that the following
classes of inventions are not patentable by application of section 3(k) and
3(m) of the Act :-
> A. A mathematical method;
> B. A business method;
> C. A computer programme per se;
> D. Algorithms;
> G. A mere scheme of performing mental act;
> H. A mere rule of performing mental act;
> I. A mere method of performing mental act;
J. A mere method of playing a game;
108\. It is argued by the defendant side that all the above exceptions to
patentability have the common thread of being abstract in nature. These
exceptions which could be new and inventive due to their mere abstract nature
and lack of practical application have been specified as non-patentable i.e.
they cannot be regarded as inventions within the meaning of the Act.
109\. Both parties have addressed their submissions in this regard and has
also filed written note on this issue. The objection raised by the defendant
in its pleadings and reply given by the plaintiff of suit patents are
reproduced as under :
        S.         PATENT        THE     DEFENDANT'S
                                                       PLAINTIFF'S REPLY
        No.          NO.         OBJECTION
           CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                     Page 127 of 257
     1.      203686        The validity of the present     The invention claimed in IN '686
                          patent has been challenged      relates to a novel and inventive
                          on the ground that the          radio communication system
                          invention claimed therein is    and station along with the
                          a computer programme per        method      by     which     mode
                          se.                             information (viz. mode indicators
                                                          and      mode       request)    is
                                                          transmitted        within     the
                          Further,    it  has     been    communication system whereby
                          contended       that      the   the rate of transmission of mode
                          invention is nothing but a      information is decimated to
                          mathematical method of          reduce         the      bandwidth
                          determining different frames    consumption.
                          for carrying mode indicators
                          and mode requests.
                                                         The mere fact that certain pre-
                          It has also been contended     defined set of guidelines are
that the underlying invention followed by the aforesaid resides in an
algorithm of hardware and network elements determining these frame to function
as per the claimed numbers and no new invention - does not reduce the feature
is added to the subject patent to mere existing GSM 'algorithms' or
'mathematical communication system. calculations' or 'a computer It is also
the contention of program per se'. Intex that providing a frame It is
pertinent to state herein that for a mode communication the claimed invention
followed by a mode necessarily uses sensors and requests is a mere scheme
other hardware components to of performing a task. achieve the required
Further, it is not permissible improvement over the prior arts. to claim an
order of Further, no details have been transmission as the same provided by
the Counter- amounts to claiming a mere claimant as to how the granted scheme
or a rule or a claims are related to method for performing a mathematical
method etc. mental act.
2\. 241747 The validity of the said The invention claimed in IN '747 patent
was challenged by relates to a novel and inventive Intex on the ground that
the transcieving unit for error claimed invention is nothing handling using
ARQ technique CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 128 of 257 but an algorithm for setting
by selectively dividing the blocks a software based that were erroneously
received communication protocol and retransmitting them using a between
transmitter and different FEC Coding and/or receiver. modulation than the one
used originally, thereby significantly Further, it has been enhancing system
performance contended that all claims of and providing greater flexibility the
said patent are directed to cope with changes in a towards mathematical
communication system and RF methods and/or algorithm, channel conditions.
making the patent having ineligible subject matter for The fact that
implementation of an invention. the invention inter alia involves decoding and
analyzing the received signal block, retransmitting the data which was
erroneously transmitted does not mean that the patent is nothing but an
algorithm for setting a software based communication protocol between
transmitter and receiver. On the contrary, the invention pertains to a highly
improved transcieving unit which aids in error correction.
Further, the implementation of the claimed invention not only requires
hardware components necessary for decoding and analyzing the received signal
block, but also involves other components and elements used for retransmitting
the data which was erroneously transmitted, apart from storage blocks which
would have to register the modulation or coding scheme by which first
transmission happened, so that the subsequent transmission of the CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 129 of 257 erroneously transmitted block is done via
different modulation or coding scheme.
3\. 234157 It has been alleged by Intex The claimed invention relates to that
the said patent is a multi-codebook fixed bit-rate related to Code Exited CELP
signal block Linear Protection (CELP) encoding/decoding method and which is
widely accepted as apparatus and a multi-codebook a speech coding algorithm.
structure where the It is also stated that the encoding/decoding is improved
deterministic selection by using several different equal procedure described
in the size codebooks which are said patent is also an selected
deterministically algorithm which could be (without regard to the signal
considered as a sub- type which is being function of the patent CELP
encoded/decoded) wherein algorithm. there is no explicit need to transmit
coding mode Further, qua the apparatus information from the encoder to claimed
by way of claims 12 the decoder.
and 22 of IN'157 patent, it has been alleged that the It is imperative to note
that the same is merely a computer claimed invention employs use programme
being executed of associated hardware to on a processor, i.e., a digital
perform the necessary encoding signal processing chip. after selection of the
codebook based on the deterministic Specific reliance has been selection
procedure placed on the contention independent of signal type and that
Ericsson has itself such parameters guided by the admitted that the
description of the invention.
deterministic selection procedure is an algorithm Further, even the
'deterministic and the same can be selection procedure' should not implemented
by use of be taken to be merely as an some kind of processor. algorithm
especially in the light of the necessary technical effect and relationship it
has with the associated hardware inasmuch as in order to switch between the
codebooks (which in turn have been specifically designed CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 130 of 257 and developed by the Plaintiff) or coding modes, the claimed
codecs use hardware elements including control lines and switches which have
been specifically designed and developed by the Plaintiff.
Further, the invention of IN'157 necessarily relies on a synchronized counter
between the encoder and decoder. Also, a rate controller is used which enables
the invention claimed in IN '157 so as to achieve higher speech quality across
the network under severe network condition. IN'157 uses a codebook
configurator for the analysis-by-synthesis loop on the encoder side and for
synthesis loop on the decoder side.
4\. 213723 It has been alleged by IntexThe IN'723 claims an apparatus that the
said patent deals and method of generation of with signal processing modified
comfort noise which is technically parameters on the basis of implemented in
software on variability information associated algorithm provided. with the
actual background noise by using a modifier that It is also alleged that the
has been specifically designed claimed invention relates by the Plaintiff.
merely to mathematical equations which have been detailed in the complete
specification itself. It is of importance to note that for the purpose of
encoding, modulating, transmitting and decoding speech/noise -
electrical signals are used wherein all the aforesaid functions are performed
by various hardware and network CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 131 of 257 elements
(encoder, modulator, transmitter and decoder) whose operations are controlled
by way of certain pre-defined sets of instructions. These instructions which
may use mathematical calculations are being termed as an algorithm by the
Counter Claimant.
However, it is pertinent to note herein that these instructions are not mere
abstract algorithms /computer programmes but are inter alia firmware which
results in a technical effect/practical output.
5\. 203036 The validity of the said The patented invention patent has been
challenged describes combination of by Intex on the ground that encoding
techniques (for both the same relates to voiced and unvoiced segment of
mathematical equation. a signal) adaptively for any given input speech signal,
which invariably would employ associated hardware to perform It has also been
alleged that the apparatus that has been the necessary encoding after
determination of the various claimed vide claims 1 and 12 is merely a computer
calculations made with respect programme being executed to the balance factor
and such on a processor i.e. a digital parameters guided by the equations as
discussed in the signal processing chip.
description of the invention.
Specific reliance is placed on the allegation that The invention as described
by Ericsson has itself admitted IN'036 is effete per se unless the complex
technical and to the fact that the speech encoder, according to the hardware
components invention, can be readily /elements are used which inter
implemented using a alia employ and function as per suitable programme -
certain predefined guidelines, equations etc as proposed in the CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 132 of 257 digital signal processing or patent are put to
work in the other data processing communication system.
                          device either alone or in
                          combination with          an
                          external logic.              The allegation by Intex that the
                                                       admission      in    the     patent
                                                       description that the invention
                                                       can be worked upon by means
                                                       of a processor or suitably
                                                       programmed        digital     signal
                                                       processing device is misleading
                                                       as the specific error criteria in IN
                                                       '036 invention can also be
                                                       implemented as a weighted
                                                       error signal 'modifier' in an
                                                       Analysis-by-Synthesis loop of a
                                                       Firm/hardware encoder
    6.      203034        The validity of the patent is    The novelty and inventive step
                          challenged on the ground         of IN '034 resides in a 'Linear
                          that the claimed invention is    Predictive Analysis-by-Synthesis
                          a computer programme per         (LPAS) encoder' specifically
                          se or an algorithm as the        developed and designed by the
                          same relates to linear           Plaintiff and the manner in which
                          productive     analysis     by   coding of plurality of consecutive
                          synthesis encoding which is      sub-frames is performed by it.
                          widely accepted as a
                          speech coding algorithm. It
                          is    also    alleged     thatIn order to perform the aforesaid
                          determining optimum gains,    function, the claimed encoder
                          vector quantization of the    necessarily requires several
                          said optimum gains and        hardware      components        to
                          opting internal indicator     perform the 'determination of
                          status are also algorithm     optimum        gains',     'vector
                          which would be considered     quantization' and 'update of
                          as sub-functions of the       internal encoder states' etc. The
patent indicating algorithm. fact that while performing the aforesaid
functions inter alia certain pre-determined It is the contention of Intex
guidelines are followed does not that the apparatus which mean that the
claimed invention has been claimed vide is a mere algorithm or a CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 133 of 257 claims 8 to 14 is merely a computer programme per
se.
                          computer           programme
                          executed on a processor
                          i.e.    a     digital   signal   It is of importance to note that
                          processing chip. Specific        the term 'algorithm' mentioned
                          reliance has been placed on      in the complete specification by
                          the allegation that Intex has    the Plaintiff refers to a 'search
                          itself admitted that the         algorithm' which is used for
functionality of the algorithm determining best combination of search block
and vector codebook vectors (ca and cf) for quantizer is implemented as both
fixed and adaptive one or more several micro codebooks along with gains (ga
processors or micro/signal and gf) - which are thereafter processor
combination. used by the various hardware elements, components etc for the
purpose of producing the synthetic signal at the encoder side which is
subsequently transmitted to the decoder.
It should be noted that mere reference to the use of a 'procedure' or a
'method' or an 'algorithm' in an apparatus which comprises of various network
or hardware elements, components etc. so as to bring about a technical effect
or to perform a technical process -
does not reduces /makes the claimed invention an algorithm or computer program
per se or even a mathematical method or formula as contemplated under section
3(k).
7\. 229632 The validity of the said The invention of IN '632 relates patent
has been challenged to a 'novel' and 'inventive' by Intex on the ground that
mobile station specifically it merely claims a type of designed and developed
by the logical channel which is Plaintiff (along with its method of nothing
but a mere scheme operation) for receiving multiple or a rule or a method for
radio bearer services, CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 134 of 257 performing a mental
act processing them by dividing which is not patentable as them into separate
data blocks per Section 3(m). and using a multiplexer to combine the blocks of
different services as per Quality of Service Requirements, i.e., the data
blocks requiring similar QoS requirements are combined together, into the
transmission blocks which are then transmitted by using a single
logical/transport channel in order to optimize use of bandwidth.
It is pertinent to state herein that data blocks within the transmission
blocks can be prioritized for transmission.
Moreover, none of the claims of IN '632 tend to claim a 'logical channel' in
any manner and it is nothing but an attempt to mislead the Hon'ble Court away
from the claims of IN '632.
8\. 240471 The validity of the said The invention of the IN '471 patent has
been challenged patent relates to a mobile radio by Intex on the ground that
station and its use in a mobile it merely claims a 'rule' and radio
communication system all the claims are directed wherein the mobile radio
station toward an algorithm and is acts as a flexible and adaptive nothing but
a mere scheme measurement tool for radio or a rule or a method for network
control so as to provide performing a mental act reporting of radio related
which is not patentable as parameters based on satisfying per Sections 3(k)
and 3(m) predetermined events or respectively. conditions, which enables the
radio network to promptly and effectively respond to the changed conditions
and perform necessary operations.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 135 of 257
It is pertinent to state herein that the reference to the terms like 'pre-
determined conditions' or 'event triggered signaling' cannot be used to
obviate the fact that the invention in fact makes use of the mobile station to
measure, evaluate and signal to the radio access network the handover-related
parameters for a plurality of cells which necessarily means that the mobile
hardware is being used to bring about a technical effect or to perform a
technical process and therefore, it is incorrect to argue by Intex that the
claimed invention is an algorithm or computer program per se or even a
mathematical method or formula as contemplated under section 3(k) or 3(m).
110\. Ms. Pratibha M. Singh, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of
plaintiff has referred the detailed history of many countries of the world in
support of her submission and to assist the court and has referred many
decisions too on this issue. The same are discussed below :
i) In the year 2002 the Patents Act, 1970 was amended to align the Indian
Statute as per the provisions of TRIPS Agreement in consonance with India's
international obligations. Prior to 2002, Sections 3(k) and 3(m) were absent
in the Act and the said provisions were added by the Patents (Amendment) Act,
2002 [38  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 136 of 257 of 2002]. Though article 27 of
the TRIPS agreement does not provide for the exclusion as contained in
sections 3(k) and 3(m), however, a country is given the flexibility under sub-
clause 2 of the said article to exclude subject matter from patentability in
order to maintain public order etc. The said Article 27 is reproduced
hereunder for the sake of convenience:- Article 27 - Patentable Subject
Matter:
1\. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3, patents shall be
available for any inventions, whether products or process, in all fields of
technology, provided that they are new, involve an inventive step and are
capable of industrial application. Subject to paragraph 4 of Article 65,
paragraph 8 of Article 70 and paragraph 3 of this Article, patents shall be
available and patent rights enjoyable without discrimination as to the place
of invention, the field of technology and whether products are imported or
locally produced.
2\. Members may exclude from patentability inventions, the prevention within
their territory of the commercial exploitation of which is necessary to
protect ordre public or morality, including the protect human, animal or plant
life or health or to avoid serious prejudice to the environment, provided that
such exclusion is not made merely because the exploitation is prohibited by
their law.
3\. Members may also exclude from patentability:
> (a) diagnostic, therapeutic and surgical methods for the treatment of humans
> or animals;
> (b) plants and animals other than micro-organisms, and essentially
> biological processes for the production of plants or animals other than non-
> biological and microbiological processes.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 137 of 257
> However, Members shall provide for the protection of plant varieties either
> by patents or by an effective sui generis system or by any combination
> thereof. The provisions of this subparagraph shall be reviewed four years
> after the date of entry into force of the WTO Agreement.
ii) The provisions contained in Indian statute under Sections 3(k) and 3(m)
are not new in the field of patent law as equivalent provisions exist in other
jurisdictions including European Union, UK etc. Such exceptions have also been
read in the US Patent Law by way of judge made law. It is a consistent
international practice to exclude from patentability most of the categories of
inventions enumerated hereinabove as contained in sections 3(k) and 3(m) of
the Act. It would be necessary to review the legal position qua these
exceptions in the other jurisdictions.
iii) POSITION IN THE EUROPEAN UNION The European Patent Convention consists of
exceptions to patentability under Article 52. The said Article is reproduced
hereunder:-
> Article 52 - Patentable inventions:
> (1) European patents shall be granted for any inventions, in all fields of
> technology, provided that they are new, involve an inventive step and are
> susceptible of industrial application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 138 of 257
> (2) The following in particular shall not be regarded as inventions within
> the meaning of paragraph 1:
> (a) discoveries, scientific theories and mathematical methods;
> (b) aesthetic creations;
> (c) schemes, rules and methods for performing mental acts, playing games or
> doing business, and programs for computers;
> (d) Presentations of information.
> (3) Paragraph 2 shall exclude the patentability of the subject-matter or
> activities referred to therein only to extent to which a European patent
> application or European patent relates to such subject-matter or activities
> as such.
iv) A perusal of the above provision shows that the following classes of
inventions are not patentable in the European Union:-
> 1\. Mathematical methods as such;
> 2\. Schemes, Rules and Methods for performing mental acts as such;
> 3\. Playing games as such;
> 4\. Doing business as such;
> 5\. Programs for computers as such;
111\. The above provision and its interpretation has been the subject matter
of several judgments of the European Technical Board of Appeals. One of the
earliest notable judgment, which interprets Article 52 is VICOM Systems Inc.
(Case No. T 208/84), which dealt with 'a method and an apparatus for digitally
processing images in form of a two dimensional data array'. The test laid down
in the VICOM case is  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 139 of 257 that in an invention
even if the idea underlying an invention may be considered to reside in a
mathematical method, a claim directed to a technical process in which the
method is used does not seek protection for the mathematical method as such.
The reasoning given by the Board was that the method by itself is not being
patented but the technical process in which the method is used is patentable.
Relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are being extracted as under:
> "................................................
> 5\. There can be little doubt that any processing operation on an electric
> signal can be described in mathematical terms. The characteristic of a
> filter, for example, can be expressed in terms of a mathematical formula. A
> basic difference between a mathematical method and a technical process can
> be seen, however, in the fact that a mathematical method or a mathematical
> algorithm is carried out on numbers (whatever these numbers may represent)
> and provides a result also in numerical form, the mathematical method or
> algorithm being only an abstract concept prescribing how to operate on the
> numbers. No direct technical result is produced by the method as such. In
> contrast thereto, if a mathematical method is used in a technical process,
> that process is carried out on a physical entity (which may be a material
> object but equally an image stored as an electric signal) by some technical
> means implementing the method and provides as its result a certain change in
> that entity. The technical means might include a computer comprising
> suitable hardware or an appropriately programmed general purpose computer.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 140 of 257
> 6\. The Board, therefore, is of the opinion that even if the idea underlying
> an invention may be considered to reside in a mathematical method a claim
> directed to a technical process in which the method is used does not seek
> protection for the mathematical method as such.
> ...........................................
> 8\. Rule 29(1) EPC requires that the claims shall be drafted "in terms of
> the technical features of the invention". The Board considers that this
> condition is met if the features mentioned in the claims will be understood
> by those skilled in the art as referring to the technical means for carrying
> out the functions specified by such features. If convenient, therefore, the
> use of mathematical expressions (addition, multiplication, convolution,
> logic conjunctions etc.) is admissible, the overriding requirements always
> being that the claim be clear and concise (Article 84 EPC) and that the
> person skilled in the art can understand what technical means are necessary
> from the description and/or his general knowledge of the field concerned (in
> order to comply with Article 83 EPC).
> ...........................................
> 12\. The Board is of the opinion that a claim directed to a technical
> process which process is carried out under the control of a program (be this
> implemented in hardware or in software), cannot be regarded as relating to a
> computer program as such within the meaning of Article 52(3) EPC, as it is
> the application of the program for determining the sequence of steps in the
> process for which in effect protection is sought. Consequently, such a claim
> is allowable under Article 52(2) (c) and (3) EPC.
> 14\. In the view of the Board, however, Article 54 EPC leaves no room for
> such an interpretation. A computer CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 141 of 257 of
> known type set up to operate according to a new program cannot be considered
> as forming part of the state of the art as defined by Article 54(2) EPC.
> ........................................"
> The conclusion in the said judgment is "Generally speaking, an invention
> which would be patentable in accordance with conventional patentability
> criteria should not be excluded from protection by the mere fact that for
> its implementation modern technical means in the form of a computer program
> are used.
> Decisive is what technical contribution the invention as defined in the
> claim when considered as a whole makes to the known art.
> Finally, it would seem illogical to grant protection for a technical process
> controlled by a suitably programmed computer but not for the computer itself
> when set up to execute the control". (emphasis added)
112\. The abovesaid judgment was followed in subsequent cases such as IBM -
Computer Related Inventions (Case No.T 115/85) & IBM - Data Processor Network
(Case No.T 0006/83). The Technical Board of Appeals thereafter, considered
this exception again in the case of Pension Benefits System Partnership (Case
No. T 931/95). In this case, the Board held that an apparatus constituting a
physical entity or concrete product suitable for performing or supporting an
economic activity is an invention within the meaning of Article 52(1) EPC. In
this judgment the Board held that the invention should have a technical
character in order to qualify for protection. The test laid  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 142 of 257 down in this judgment was a departure from the
VICOM test. Thereafter, the Board again considered interpretation of Article
52 in Hitachi, Ltd. (Case No. T-0258/03), reiterated the technical
character/feature test) and subsequently in Microsoft - Clipboard Formats I
(Case No. T 0424/03) judgment. In the Microsoft judgment the invention related
to the use of clipboard for data transfer. The test of use of technical means
was reiterated and it was held that a computer sytem including a memory
(clipboard) is a technical means and the claimed invention has technical
character. It was further observed that even though a method of operating a
computer may be put into practice with the help of a computer program, a claim
relating to such method does not claim a computer program in the category of
computer program. As a result, the nature of the invention i.e. whether it
seeks to solve a technical problem by technical means was looked into by the
Board.
113\. In Duns Licensing Associates (Case No. T 154/04) the technical
character/feature test was reaffirmed and it was specifically clarified that
while deciding the question of excludable subject matter, issues related to
novelty and inventive step ought not to be considered. It was held that
'Article 52(2) EPC does not exclude from patentability any subject matter or
activity having technical character, even if it is related to the items listed
in this provision since these items are only excluded "as such" (Article 52(3)
EPC).' The law in European Union as of today in even subsequent judgments of
Fujitsu Ltd. (Case No. T 1351/04), Gameaccount  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 143
of 257 Limited (Case No.T 1543/06) and SHARP Kabushiki Kaisha (Case No. T
1188/04) etc. remains that all technical features/technical characters
implemented in a hardware or network are patentable in nature.
POSITION IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
114\. Section 1(2) of the UK Patents Act, 1977 enumerates what are not
inventions. Section 1 is being reproduced hereinbelow:-
> Section 1: Patentable Inventions (1) A patent may be granted only for an
> invention in respect of which the following conditions are satisfied, that
> is to say - a. the invention is new;
> b. it involves an inventive step;
> c. it is capable of industrial application; d. the grant of a patent for it
> is not excluded by subsections (2) and (3) below;
> and references in this Act to a patentable invention shall be construed
> accordingly.
> (2) It is hereby declared that the following (among other things) are not
> inventions for the purposes of this Act, that is to say, anything which
> consists of--
> a. a discovery, scientific theory or mathematical method;
> b. a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work or any other aesthetic
> creation whatsoever; c. a scheme, rule or method for performing a mental
> act, playing a game or doing business, or a program for a computer;
> d. the presentation of information;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 144 of 257
> but the foregoing provision shall prevent anything from being treated as an
> invention for the purpose of this Act only to the extent that a patent or
> application for a patent relates to that things as such.
The above provisions follow Article 52 of the European Patent Convention with
two changes. It expressly excludes copyrightable works such as literary and
artistic works. Further, the words "to the extent that a patent or
application" has been added, which clarifies that the nature of exclusion is
extremely narrow. Thus, the excludable subject matter as defined by aforesaid
provision of the UK Act is narrower as compared to exclusion contained in Art.
52 of the EPC. However, as per the case law, Article 52 and Section 1(2) have
been interpreted to be of the same scope and application.
115\. In UK, one of the earliest judgment which discussed the excluded
inventions exception was Genentech Inc's Patent, [1989] R.P.C. 147 patent.
This judgment primarily followed the principles laid down in the VICOM
decision. In the Genentech Inc's Patent, the inventions related to
Recombinant-DNA technology (r-DNA). Thereafter, the said provision came up for
discussion in Merrill Lynch's Application, [1989] R.P.C. 561, which deals with
a business method patent application. After a detailed analysis of Article 52
and Section 1(2), the Court of Appeal relied upon Genentech Inc's Patent and
followed VICOM and reiterated the technical contribution test. The aforesaid
approach was also adopted in subsequent cases like Gale's Application [1991
R.P.C 305], Fujitsu Limited [CHPCF 96/07/789/B], CPFH L.L.C [2005 EWHC 1589
Pat.], Aerotel Ltd. Vs.  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 145 of 257 Telco Holdings
Ltd. & Ors. [2006 EWCA Civ 1371] and Symbian vs. Comptroller- General of
Patents [2009 R.P.C 1].
116\. In the case of Halliburton Energy Services Inc., [2011 EWHC 2508 Pat],
which related to a computer program which was meant to increase the drilling
efficiency drill-bits and their operational life, the U.K High Court, Chancery
Division (Patents Court) considered this exception in the context of computer
program as well as mental act. Paragraph 28 lays down the steps of the test to
be followed:
> "...........................................
> 28\. The modern approach to dealing with the exclusions from patentability
> is that laid down by the Court of Appeal in Aerotel. Jacob LJ, giving the
> judgment of the court, said that the court should adopt a four stage
> approach to dealing with issues of this kind, namely:
> i. Properly construe the claim;
> ii. Identify the actual contribution; iii. Ask whether it falls solely
> within the excluded subject matter;
> iv. Check whether the contribution is actually technical in nature."
> It has been further held by the Court in Paragraphs 30 & 32 that:
> 30\. The difficulties in this area arise mostly in relation to inventions
> which involve the use of computers. All the Court of Appeal cases (from
> Merrill Lynch to Symbian) are about inventions implemented in software. The
> simplse problem is that computer programs (as such) are excluded by s1(2)(c)
> (c.f. EPC Art 52(2)(c) and 52(3)). Whether it was so clear in the past
> CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 146 of 257 however, one thing is clear today. An
> invention which makes a contribution to the art which is technical in nature
> (to echo Kitchin J's words in Crawford) is patentable even if it is
> implemented entirely on a computer and even if the way it works is entirely
> as a result of a computer program operating on that computer. The outcome of
> the Symbian case proves that. (emphasis added)
> 32\. Thus when confronted by an invention which is implemented in computer
> software, the mere fact that it works that way does not normally answer the
> question of patentability. The question is decided by considering what task
> it is that the program (or the programmed computer) actually performs. A
> computer programmed to perform a task which makes a contribution to the art
> which is technical in nature, is a patentable invention and may be claimed
> as such. Indeed (see Astron Clinica [2008] RPC 14) in those circumstances
> the patentee is perfectly entitled to claim the computer program itself.
> (emphasis added) The technical contribution test has again been reiterated
> in this judgment. In so far as the mental act exception is concerned, the
> Court has held as under:
> "...
> 43\. The narrow construction is that the exclusion only excludes acts
> carried out mentally. On the narrow construction a claim to a calculation
> carried out on a computer could never be caught by the mental act exclusion
> because the claim does not encompass carrying out the calculation mentally.
> The fact that calculations in general are the kinds of thing which are
> capable of being performed as mental acts is  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 147
> of 257 irrelevant. This narrow interpretation is the one favoured by Jacob
> LJ in Aerotel, doubting the views of Aldous LJ on this point in Fujitsu. As
> Jacob LJ said (in paragraph 98 of Aerotel):
> ...we are by no means convinced that Aldous L.J.'s provisional view is
> correct. There is no particular reason to suppose that "mental act" was
> intended to exclude things wider than, for instance, methods of doing mental
> arithmetic (every now and then someone comes up with a trick for this, for
> instance Trachtenberg's system) or remembering things (e.g. in its day,
> Pelmanism) b. So the balance of authority in England is in favour of the
> narrow approach to the mental act exclusion. I will only add that, if the
> matter were free from authority, I would favour the narrow interpretation on
> its own merits. The wide construction seems to me to be uncertain in scope
> and I am not aware of any good reason why the exclusion needs to be
> interpreted widely. On the other hand I can see a logic behind the narrow
> interpretation, preventing patents being granted which could be infringed by
> a purely mental process. Allowing for the possibility of patent infringement
> by thought alone seems to me to be undesirable."
> 117\. In the case of HTC vs. Apple, [2013] EWCA Civ 451, the Court of Appeal
> considered the question as to whether an invention relating to touch
> sensitive screens which recognized multiple touches simultaneously was
> excluded from patentability. Apple argued relying upon the Halliburton case
> that this patent was valid and patentable.
In this judgment rendered in 2013, the Court looked at the different  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 148 of 257 approaches adopted by the UK Courts and the
European Technical Appellate Board & decided to follow the VICOM line of
authorities. The broad parameters laid down in this judgment are:-
>  Whether the invention made a technical contribution;  It is important to
> look at the substance and not at the form;  Irrespective of the approach
> adopted either by the UK Courts or by the European Board of Appeal, the
> final result appears to be the same;
Further, the HTC' case (Supra) held that if the invention could solve a
problem within the computer or outside the computer, in either case it can
have a technical effect and hence be patentable. Further, merely because the
invention is implemented in software, does not make the invention non-
patentable.
From the above discussion it is clear that even the UK, like EU (from where
the provisions in India have been derived from) does not reject software based
inventions on the ground of excluded subject matter.
POSITIION IN THE USA
118\. In the US there are no statutory exceptions to patentability. However,
by Judge made law, exceptions are provided with respect to abstract ideas to
laws of nature/ natural principles, natural phenomenon and natural products.
In the landmark decision of Diamond vs. Diehr, 450 U.S. 175, rendered by the
US Supreme Court in 1981, held that every new and useful invention would be
patentable. In State Street Bank vs. Signature Financial Group,  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 149 of 257 149 F.3d 1368, it was held that "..........the
transformation of data, representing discrete dollar amounts by a machine
through a series of mathematical calculations into a final share price,
constitutes practical application of a mathematical algorithm, formula, or
calculation because it produces 'a useful, concrete and tangible
result'.......". It was further observed that " ...... a process, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter employing a law of nature, natural
phenomenon, or abstract idea is patentable subject matter even though a law of
nature, natural phenomenon or abstract idea would not, by itself, be entitled
to such protection." In AT&T Corp. vs. Excel, 172 F.3d 1352, it was held by
the United States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit that if a mathematical
algorithm like Boolean principle resulted in a useful application it would be
patentable. The US Supreme Court in Bilski vs. Kappos, 561 U.S. 593, has held
that business methods are patentable provided that such methods satisfy the
test of 'machine or transformation' or have some practical application.
Although, in that case, the question was as to whether a method of hedging
[protect oneself against loss on (a bet or investment) by making balancing or
compensating transactions] can be patentable - the Court held that it was
merely an abstract idea which was fundamental to investment. As late as in the
judgment rendered on June 19, 2014, the US Supreme Court, in the case of Alice
Corp. vs. CLS Bank International, (Docket No. 13-298) while dealing with the
excluded exception of 'idea', has held that any invention which add
"significantly more to the abstract idea is patentable". Thus, as per Alice
Corp. if there are improvements to technical fields or to the functioning of
the computer  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 150 of 257 they can be granted patents.
From the above it clear that US in Alice Corp. has added similar test as in
EU/ UK i.e. "significantly more" which is similar to technical effect and/or
technical character/feature.
POSITION IN INDIA
119\. In India Section 3 (k) and (m) were added by 2002 Amendment Act. The
provision as proposed in the Patent (Second Amendment) Bill, 1999 reads as
under:
> "4. In section 3 of the principal Act,- ...
> (k) a mathematical or business method or a computer program per se or
> algorithms:
> ...
(m) a mere scheme or rule or method of performing mental act or method of
playing game:"s In the above provision it can be seen that the words per se in
Section 3(k) were missing. In fact when this bill was referred to the Joint
Parliamentary Committee, it was suggested by various experts and stake holders
that India should follow the EU/UK route and not completely exclude computer
program from patentability. The Parliament after accepting the aforesaid
proposition, added the words per se which was introduced in section 3(k)
enacted by the Patent (Amendment) Act, 2002.
120\. Thus, it is appears to me prima facie that any invention which has a
technical contribution or has a technical effect and is not merely a computer
program per se as alleged by the defendant and the same is  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 151 of 257 patentable. The objection raised by the defendant
in the suit for infringement is not tenable, however, admittedly defendant's
revocation petitions are pending, the same have to be considered on merit
including the objection of Section3(k) and (m). At this interim stage, this
court is not impress with the argument of the defendant that the injunction be
refused on this ground.
121\. Therefore, it is incorrect to allege that the plaintiff has obtained
Suit Patents by committing a fraud on the Indian Patent Office over un-
patentable subject-matter with unduly broad claims. The defendant has already
filed revocation petitions prior to the filing of present suit, the defence
raised herein cannot be considered as credible challenge to the validity of
the Suit patents. However, it is always open to re- agitate and stress his
objection before Appellate Board where the revocation petitions are pending.
122\. The next objection of the defendant is that the question as to whether
the asserted Suit patents of the Plaintiff are indeed "Standard Essential
Patents" (SEPs) can only be adjudicated upon once the challenge to the
validity of the Suit patents is determined. The said issue is yet to be
examined by any independent body, including the Standard Setting Organization
(SSO) in question, namely the European Telecommunications Standards Institute
(ETSI). In fact, ETSI clearly states on its website that it does verify or
guarantee the declaration of essentiality made by any patent owner. The said
disclaimer referred by the defendant reads as follows:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 152 of 257
> "The present database provides data that is based on information received.
> ETSI has not checked the validity of the information, nor the relevance of
> the identified patents/ patent applications to the ETSI Standards and cannot
> confirm, or deny, that the patents/ patent applications are, in fact,
> essential, or potentially essential. No investigation, or IPR searches, have
> been carried out by ETSI and therefore no guarantee can be given concerning
> the existence of other IPRs which are, or may become, essential.
> Potential Licensees should use the information in this database at their
> discretion and should contact the patent holders, for example to establish
> the asserted status for a disclosed patent family, prior to making a patent
> licensing decision."
123\. It is stressed by the defendant that as ETSI has not examined the
relevance or essentiality of any self-serving claim of essentiality of a
patent held by its member such as the Plaintiff, no order of restraint or
adjudication of infringement cannot be passed on the basis of self- serving
claim of the Plaintiff who has a vested interest in the patents. Unless the
alleged essentiality of the Plaintiff's patents to ETSI standards are
established by a Court of law, the plaintiff should not claim the monopoly or
protect the alleged standards of patents merely on declarations. The
Department of Telecommunications has only adopted ETSI standards, but has not
declared the Plaintiff's Suit patents as being essential for the compliance of
those standards.
124\. On the contrary, plaintiff claims that ETSI standards for the
technologies described above have various versions which are released over the
years. The Plaintiff's suit patents are ESSENTIAL for these versions of the
ETSI standards and these are correspond to the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 153
of 257 suit patents related to AMR, EDGE and 3G. The details given in the
pleading are mentioned below:
                   S.No.       Patent Nos.               ETSI Standards
               AMR PATENTS
               1-2            IN 203034 &    ETSI TS 126 090 V4.0.0 (2001-03)
                              IN 203036      ETSI TS 126 090 V4.0.0 (2001-03)
incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.090: Universal Mobile
Telecommunication System (UMTS):
Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; Adaptive Multi-
Rate (AMR) speech codec;
Transcoding functions (Release 4).
3 IN 234157 ETSI TS 126 090 V4.0.0 (2001-03) ETSI TS 126 090 V4.0.0 (2001-03)
incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.090: Universal Mobile
Telecommunication System (UMTS):
Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; Adaptive Multi-
Rate (AMR) speech codec;
Transcoding functions (Release 4).
ETSI TS 126 073 V4.1.0 (2001-12) ETSI TS 126 073 V4.1.0 (2001-12) incorporates
technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.073:Universal Mobile Telecommunications
System (UMTS); ANSI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate speech codec (Release
4)  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 154 of 257
4\. IN 203686 ETSI TS 145 009 V4.1.0 (2001-08) ETSI TS 145 009 V4.1.0
(2001-08) incorporates technical specification of 3GPP TS 48.009:Digital
cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Link adaptation (3GPP TS 45.009
version 4.1.0 Release 4)
5\. IN 213723 ETSI TS 126 092 V4.0.0 (2001-03) ETSI TS 126 092 V4.0.0
(2001-03) incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.092:Universal
Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); Mandatory Speech Codec speech
processing functions AMR Speech Codec - Comfort noise aspects (Release 4) ETSI
TS 126 073 V4.1.0 (2001-12) ETSI TS 126 073 V4.1.0 (2001-12) incorporates
technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.073:Universal Mobile Telecommunications
System (UMTS); ANSI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate speech codec (Release
4) ETSI TS 126 093 V4.0.0 (2000-12) ETSI TS 126 093 V4.0.0 (2000-12)
incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 26.093: Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System (UMTS); AMR speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
operation (Release
4) CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 155 of 257 3G PATENTS
6\. IN 229632 ETSI TS 123 107 V10.1.0 (2011-06) ETSI TS 123 107 V10.1.0
(2011-06) incorporates technical specification of 3GPP TS 23.107:Digital
cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System (UMTS); LTE; Quality of Service (QoS) concept and
architecture (Release 10) ETSI TS 125 301 V6.0.0 (2003-12) ETSI TS 125 301
V6.0.0 (2003-12) incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 25.301:
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); Radio interface protocol
architecture (Release 6) ETSI TS 125 302 V6.2.0 (2004-12) ETSI TS 125 302
V6.2.0 (2004-12) incorporates technical specification of 3GPP TS 25.302:
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS);Services provided by the
physical layer (Release 6)
7\. IN 240471 ETSI TS 125 331 V3.21.0 (2004-12) ETSI TS 125 331 V3.21.0
(2004-12) incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 25.331: Universal
Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification (Release 1999) CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 156 of 257 EDGE PATENT
8\. IN 241747 ETSI TS 101 349 V8.27.0 (2005-09) ETSI TS 101 349 V8.27.0
(2005-09) incorporates technical specifications of 3GPP TS 04.60 V8.27.0:
Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS); Mobile Station (MS)
\- Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/ Medium Access
Control (RLC/ MAC) Protocol (Release 1999) ETSI TS 101 350 V8.12.0 (2004-04)
ETSI TS 101 350 V8.12.0 (2004-04) incorporates technical specification of 3GPP
TS 03.64 V8.12.0: Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Overall description of the GPRS radio
interface; Stage 2 (Release 1999)
125\. Both parties have tried to explain to the Court about technologies by
using Projector on various dates. They have also provided the soft copy
thereof. The defendant has also referred the prior art in order to support its
averments, the plaintiff on the other hand replied to the prior art. The
details of each patent referred and discussed are given as under :
A.
i) IN 203034 titled as "Linear Predictive Analysis by synthesis encoding
method and encoder"
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 157 of 257
 The present patent relates to an improved encoder (and method of encoding)
whereby
\- Optimum gains of plurality of consecutive sub-frames are determined and
thereafter vector quantization of the said optimum gains is performed;
\- Such vector quantized gains are used to update the internal encoder states
thereby maintaining the synchronization between the internal states of the
encoder and decoder.
It is the case of plaintiff that as a result, the plaintiff has been able to
achieve reduction in number of bits required to encode speech frames without
affecting the speech quality.
ii) The prior art cited in the patent by the defendant who submits that the
conventional waveform matching procedure is known to work well at least for
bit rates of say 8kb/s or more. However, when lowering the bit rate, the
coding efficiency decreases as the number of bits available for each parameter
decreases and quantization accuracy suffers - Thus the suit patent increases
the coding efficiency at lowered bit rates and in order to overcome the said
drawback, the conventional methods tend to solve the problem of reduced coding
efficiency at low bit rates by collectively vector quantizing gain parameters
related information over several sub-frames. But these methods CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 158 of 257 do not consider the internal states of the
encoder and decoder, as a result, the decoded signal at the decoder will
differ from the optimal synthesized signal at the encoder, thereby adversely
affecting the efficiency of the speech signal produced at the encoder end.
iii) Counsel for the plaintiff on the other hand has submitted that the
argument of defendant are incorrect interpretation to the suit patent with the
view to mislead this Court by stating that  IN '034 relates to vector
quantization of gain parameters of one sub-frame; whereas  The corresponding
US patent (US 6732069) relates to collective vector quantization of gain
parameters of multiple subframes.
However, in the revocation petition the scope of the invention in consonance
with the plaintiff's submissions has been admitted.
iv) The plaintiff itself states in the complete specification of the suit
patent that collective vector quantization of gain parameters related to
information over several subframes was known. However, the manner of
synchronizing internal states of the encoder and decoder while collectively
vector qunatizing gains parameters of several subframes was not known CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 159 of 257  Vector quantization of gain parameters in
several subframes simultaneously and still maintaining the synchronization
between the encoder and decoder.
The aforesaid is performed by :
 Determining optimum gains of plurality of consecutive sub-frames;
 Thereafter vector quantize all such gains obtained i.e. collectively or
jointly vector quantize the gains;
 Maintain the same internal stages at the encoder and decoder;
v) Suit patent is also registered in other countries of the world, such
details are given as under :
         Country              Application Number                 Patent Number
         Argentina            990104663                          ARO21221
         Australia            63757/99                           756491
         Brazil               9913715/1                          PI9913715-1
         Canada               2344302                            2344302
         China                99811002/7                         ZL99811002-7
         Finland              99951293-2                         1114415
         France               99951293-2                         1114415
         Germany              69922388.1                         1114415
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                                    Page 160 of 257
        India                   IN/PCT/2001/00260/MUM            203034
       Italy                   99951293-2                       1114415
       Japan                   2000-570771                      3893244
       Malaysia                9903570                          MY122181
       Republic           of   2001/7003364                     416363
       Korea
       South Africa            2001/1867                        2001/1867
       Sweden                  9803165-1                        9803165-1
       United Kingdom          99951293-2                       1114415
       United States           09/396300                        6732069
vi) Prior Art a 'A8' - WO 1996/035208 titled A gain quantization method in
analysis by synthesis linear predictive speech coding Defendant's Contention
Plaintiff's response  A8 hits the novelty of IN '034;  A8 does not
anticipate IN '034 as it relates to an improved  A8 discloses a method of
quantization method in analysis determining optimal gains for by synthesis
linear predictive plurality of subframes; speech coding;
 A8 also describes vector  The main inventive step in A8 is quantization of
the said to predict a second gain from a optimum gains for the said first gain
using linear prediction in plurality of subframes; the logarithmic domain, and
quantize the resulting difference signal, wherein all gain parameters lie in
the same sub-
frame;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 161 of 257
vii) Prior Art 'A9' - US 5651090 titled Coding method and coder for coding
input signals of plurality channels using vector quantization, and decoding
method and decoder therefor -
Defendant's Contention Plaintiff's response  A9 hits the inventive step of IN
 The corresponding EP patent '034; 0684705 of the aforesaid prior art has
been referred to by the  A9 discloses a method for plaintiff itself in the
background determining optimum gains for of the complete specification;
plurality of subsframes;
 The 'novelty', 'inventive step' of IN '034 over A9 have been duly  A9 also
describes about vector explained and detailed in the quantization of the said
complete specification;
optimum gains for the said plurality of subframes;  A9 describe a
multichannel (plural channel) coding method i.e. the problem being addressed
in A9 is to efficiently encode several channels;
viii) Prior Art 'A10' - EP 0804854 titled Audiovisual encoding system with a
reduced number of audio encoders -
        Defendant's Contention                      Plaintiff's response
       A10 hits the inventive step of IN     Teachings of an audio-video
        '034;                                  encoding system cannot be
                                               applied into speech coding
       A10 discloses a system that            systems.
        provides     quantizatino of
        coefficients of audio visual          A10 merely details an audio
        signal for a plurality of              visual encoding system with a
        subframes;                             reduced number of audio
                                               encoders using which efficient
       A10 teaches about restoring            and     high    quality  offline
        internal encoder states after          multipass video editing and re-
        quantization of coefficients from      encoding is performed.
        several subframes;
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                                Page 162 of 257
                                                    Paragraph 13, i.e., introductory
          Despite the fact that A10 relates        paragraph to the invention
           to   digital compression        of       merely     discusses      digital
           audio/video        signals,      it      compression system in general
           specifically states that the same        and does not relate to 'updating
           is applicable to any type of             the internal encoder and
           coding scheme.                           decoder states.
         
    ix)      Prior Art 'A11' - CA 2185745 titled Synthesis of speech
signals in the absence of the coded parameters - Defendant's Contention
Plaintiff's response  A11 hits the inventive step of IN  The corresponding
EP patent '034; 0764939 of the aforesaid prior art has been referred to by the
 A11 discloses a method for plaintiff itself in the background of determining
of optimum gains for the complete specification; plurality of subframes;
 The 'novelty', 'inventive step' of  A11 teaches collective vector IN '034
over A11 have been duly quantization of gains over a explained and detailed in
the plurality of subframes; complete specification;
 The abstract, pages 329 and 338  A11 relates to speech were referred and
relied upon; compression system called Transform Predictive Coding which uses
a hearing model (based on human auditory perception) for quantizing the LP-
residual;
x) Prior Art 'A12' - Ramprashad article titled A two stage hybrid embedded
speech/audio coding structure -
Defendant's Contention Plaintiff's response  A12 hits the inventive step of
IN  A12 discloses how to build an '034; efficient second stage enhancement
encoder reducing  A12 talks about using gains for the error after a first
stage of CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 163 of 257 speech encoding; standardized
LPAS encoding;
 A12 describes a two stage coding approach wherein the second  A12 teaches
collective vector stage coder describes a closed quantization of the optimum
loop Modified Discrete Cosine gains for plurality of subframes;
Transform/frequency domain encoder which encodes the prediction residual after
a first  Pages 355 and 358 were stage synthesis of the core coded referred
and relied upon; speech signal by an ITU-T standardized core LPAS speech coder
(conventional coders);
B. IN 203036
i) The invention in Patent No. 203036 generally to speech coding and more
particularly, to improved coding criteria for accommodating noise-like signals
at lower bit rates. The patent claims a speech encoding apparatus and a
transceiver apparatus that use a new speech coding criteria which softly
combines the waveform matching and the energy matching. It is claimed by the
plaintiff that the patented invention thus increases the coding efficiency as
it reduces the problems associated with conventional multi- mode coding
techniques, where different coding modes have to be used for unvoiced and
background noise signals.
ii) The prior art cited in the patent by the defendant who alleges that the
Conventional waveform matching procedure is known to work well at least for
bit rates of say 8kb/s or more. However, when lowering the bit rate, the
ability to do waveform matching of non-periodic, noise-like  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 164 of 257 signals such as unvoiced speech and background
noise suffers. Thus the suit patent increases the coding efficiency of even
noise-like signals at lowered bit rates.
iii) In order to overcome the said drawback, the conventional methods tend to
solve the above problem by using a different coding mode, e.g., energy
matching for unvoiced speech and background noise i.e. multi mode coding.
However, the conventional multi-mode coding suffers from the drawback of mode
decision, i.e., choosing between the waveform matching and energy matching,
which is a sensitive decision and causes annoying artifacts when wrong,
leading to unwanted sounds and noise like bursts.
iv) The plaintiff has stated in the complete specification of the suit patent
that multi-mode coding techniques for different type of speech/noise signals
were known. However, the manner of adaptively and smoothly combining the
waveform matching and energy matching whereby the drawback of mode decision
can be overcome - was not known and the same is taught by the novel speech
encoding and transceiver apparatus as claimed.
v) It is claimed by the plaintiff that the invention is a novel speech
encoding and transceiver apparatus that use a new speech coding criteria which
softly combines the waveform matching mode (for coding speech signals) and the
energy matching mode (for coding noise-like signals) by using a CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 165 of 257 suitable mixture of the two criteria, weights or
balance of which is adaptively and smoothly adjusted as per the constitution
of the incoming signal, thereby solving the problems of conventional prior
arts like that of noise bursts especially at lowered bit rates.
As a result, the problem of a wrong mode decision between criteria is avoided.
The adaptive nature of the criterion makes it possible to smoothly adjust the
balance of the waveform and energy matching. Therefore, artifacts due to
drastically changing of the criterion are controlled.
vi) The suit patent corresponds to and the same is granted in other countries,
the details of which are mentioned below:-
Country Application Number Patent Number Argentina 990104361 027812B1
Australia 58887/99 774998 Brazil PI9913292/3 PI9913292-3 Canada 2342353
2342353 China 99812785/X ZL99812785-X Finland 99946485/2 1114414 France
99946485/2 1114414 Germany 99946485/2 69906330-2-08 India 2001/00290/MUM
203036 CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 166 of 257 Italy 99946485/2 1114414 Japan
2000-568079 3483853 Malaysia 9903552 MY-123316-A Mexico 2001/002144 232547
Republic of Korea 10/2001/7002609 0421648 Russian Federation 2001108584
2223555 Singapore 200101215-2 79451 South Africa 20011666 20011666 Taiwan
88113965 134156 United Kingdom 99946485/2 1114414 United States 09/144961
6192335
vii) With respect to Prior Art 'A10' - EP 0780832 titled Speech coding device
for estimating an error of power envelopes of synthetic and input speech
signals granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response
given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A10 hits the novelty of IN '036;
A10 does not anticipate IN '036 as it does not disclose or teach the use of a
new speech coding criteria which softly combines the waveform and energy
matching wherein on the basis of the constitution of the input signal the
balance between the two factors CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 167 of 257 is
achieved.
A10 discloses a method of The inventive step of A10 is to combining waveform
matching use an envelope error for the and energy matching; entire speech
signal and further combine the envelope error with the waveform error for the
entire speech signal to obtain a total error irrespective of signal type.
Abstract of EP '832 was read; In, A10 envelope signals are compared in order
to compute envelope error evaluation values and the envelope error Rij, which
is not an energy parameter as it is the envelope error summed up over all
samples in the frame, thus still sensitive to phase (time) shifts (waveform
error).
A10 does not deal with the issue of improving noise like signals at lowered
bit rates without the disadvantages of multi-mode coding.
Further, A10 is extremely complex and difficult to implement and does not
contain enabling disclosure qua the balancing factor'.
A10 does not anticipate IN '036 as it relates to a speech coding device that
seeks to improve the quantization process by reducing the error between the
original speech signal and synthetic speech signal in a different and less
efficient manner.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 168 of 257
viii) With respect to Prior Art 'A11' - Article titled "Code Excited linear
Prediction CELP High Quality Speech at Very Low Bit Rates" referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's Contention Plaintiff's Response A11 renders IN '036 obvious in No
details about how A11 renders nature. IN '036 obvious in nature have been
provided in the revocation petition.
A11 discloses construction of A11 does not disclose, teach or optimum codebook
and about enable a person skilled in the art to waveform matching to produce
overcome the drawbacks synthetic speech. associated with general waveform
matching qua noise segments of a signal at low bitrates.
It is a necessary requirement that A11 does not detail or even hint at
waveform and energy matching using different error criteria or any have to be
used for the different balancing between different error type of input
signals, and hence a criteria as it discloses use of person skilled in the art
would waveform matching for unvoiced obviously use a combination of signals.
the same.
Thus, A11 merely discusses general codebook driven linear prediction of Speech
signals and creating a difference signal based on waveform matching error.
ix) With respect to Prior Art 'A12' - Article titled "Code Excited Linear
Prediction coding of Speech at 4.8 kbps referred by the defendant and the
response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 169 of 257
Defendant's Contention Plaintiff's Response On the basis of mere reading of No
details about how A12 the Abstract of A12, the invention renders IN '036
obvious in of IN '036 becomes obvious. nature have been provided in the
revocation petition.
In light of A12, concept of A12 discusses how code balancing waveform and
energy excitation prediction coding criterion is not inventive; can be used
for efficient coding of speech at rates around 5kb/s.
The article discusses waveform coding criteria only and does not teach or even
hint at use of energy coding criteria for noise like signals.
On the basis of mere reading of Further, the term 'residual' the Abstract of
A12, the invention signal referred by the of IN '036 becomes obvious.
Defendant is nothing but the waveform error signal after formant weighting,
i.e. the waveform error signal itself can have energy, even though it does not
represent the energy distortion as discussed by the suit patent.
A12 thus teaches how to reduce the waveform error and does not detail or even
hint at using different error criteria or any balancing between the different
error criteria, as claimed by IN '036 patent.
x) With respect to Prior Art 'A13' - US 5787391 titled "Speech Coding by Code-
Edited Linear Prediction CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 170 of 257 referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A13 renders IN '034 obvious in A13
merely describes a nature. conventional LPAS (linear predictive analysis-by-
synthesis) system where the main problem being solved by the alleged prior art
is providing robustness (tolerance) to transmission bit errors where waveform
coding criteria is used even for noise/unvoiced intervals in the speech.
A13 discloses a coding apparatus Unlike IN '036, which uses a for quantizing
parameters such combination of coding criterions as spectral envelope
information used to effectively and and power information as a unit adaptively
code voice-like and of frame operation comprising a noise-like signals, A13
always plurality of samples of speech minimizes only the waveform data. error
criteria.
C. IN 213723
i) The invention in Patent No. 213723 relates generally to speech coding and
more particularly to speech coding wherein artificial background noise is
produced during periods of speech inactivity.
ii) It claims a method and apparatus for generating comfort noise by using
modified comfort noise parameters (based on properties of actual background
noise) which improve the naturalness of background noise. It is submitted that
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 171 of 257 the comfort noise generated from such
modified parameters is perceived as less static than conventionally generated
comfort noise, and more similar to the actual background noise experienced at
the encoder.
iii) Plaintiff has itself admitted in the complete specification that
producing comfort noise or artificial background noise was known. The
plaintiff has also highlighted the drawback of conventional comfort noise
generation techniques wherein the generated comfort noise is often perceived
as static and much different from the actual background.
iv) The suit invention inter alia claims an apparatus and a method of
generating comfort noise from modified comfort noise parameters based on
properties of actual background noise in a manner such that the comfort noise
so generated is perceived as less static than the conventionally generated
comfort noise and more similar to the actual background noise. It is claimed
by the plaintiff that the suit patent thus improves the naturalness of
background noise (with no additional bandwidth or power cost) and it makes
switching between speech and non- speech modes in a speech codec more seamless
and therefore more acceptable for the human ear.
v) It is also claimed that the conventionally, in the light of the fact that
background noise uses lower bit rate than speech
\- encoders used variable transmission rates for CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 172
of 257 transmission of speech and for transmission of background noise.
However, in order save bit rates used in transmission, discontinuous
transmission was used i.e. when a speaker became inactive the transmitter
stopped sending coded speech frames. Instead, at regular or irregular
intervals (typically every 500 ms) the transmitter used to send speech
parameters suitable for generation of comfort noise in the decoder and due to
this discontinuous transmission of comfort noise parameters, the comfort noise
generated in the decoder was perceived as being very static and much different
from the background noise generated in the active mode i.e. when the speaker
was talking and speech signals, along with the background noise, was being
transmitted.
vi) In order to raise the objection of prior art urges that it is because the
comfort noise parameters are not sent to the receiver as often as the speech
frames, but rather are sent as an averaged value for several frames, which is
necessary in order to save battery life by consuming lower power; and to
increase system capacity by reducing the transmission of SID frames wherein
comfort noise generation parameters are encoded.
vii) In order to solve the problem of 'static comfort noise', the conventional
approach which existed simply increased the update rate of DTX comfort noise
parameters. However, CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 173 of 257 the same is
undesirable since it leads to increased battery consumption and decreased
system capacity. Thus, the static background noise was accepted in the prior
art.
viii) It is submitted by the plaintiff that the suit patent claims a method
and apparatus for generating modified comfort noise parameters (using a
modifier) which are in turn used for generation of comfort noise by:
(a) providing to the modifier, plurality of comfort noise parameters that are
normally used by speech decoder to generate comfort noise as the first input &
providing background noise parameters (which are associated with background
noise actually experienced at the encoder) as the second input;
(b) the modifier then modifies the conventional comfort noise parameters
received by it as the first input based on the actual background noise
parameters (which are indicative of the variability of the background noise)
received by it as a second input to generate MODIFIED COMFORT NOISE
PARAMETERS;
(c) these modified comfort noise parameters are then used for synthesis of
comfort noise that reproduces more faithfully the actual background noise
present at the speech encoder.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 174 of 257
ix) The suit patent thus corresponds to mandatory part of standard and the
same is granted in other countries, the details of which are mentioned below:-
Country Application Number Patent Number Argentina P990105964 AR028468B1
Australia 15911/00 760447 Canada 2349944 2349944 China 99813620/4 ZL99813620-4
Finland 99958572/2 1145222 France 99958572/2 1145222 Germany 99958572/2
69917677-8-08 India IN/PCT/2001/00552/MUM 213723 Italy 99958572/2 1145222
Japan 2000-584461 4659216 Mexico PA/a/2001/004906 227568 Republic of
2001-7006293 10-0675126 Korea Russian 2001117232 2237296 Federation United
Kingdom 99958572/2 1145222 United States 09/391768 7124079 CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 175 of 257
x) With respect to Prior Art Document A6 - Thesis titled "Source-
> channel Coding of Speech" by Alexis P. Bernard, published in December, 1998
> granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by
> the plaintiff reads as under:-
> Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A6 hits the novelty of IN '723
> Publication Date (December 1998) of A6 is later than the Priority date of IN
> '723, i.e., 23.11.1998 - A6 cannot be regarded as prior art.
> It was argued that A6 discloses Without Prejudice to the every embodiment of
> the suit patent, aforesaid no details about how including method of
> generation of A6 hits the novelty of IN '723 modified comfort noise
> parameters have been provided as merely using the actual background noise;
> certain portions have been extracted from the main body of the document.
                                              A6    only    discusses   the
                                              conventional   comfort  noise
                                              generation method.
> xi) With respect to Prior Art Document A7 - EP0843301 titled "Methods for
> generating comfort noise during discontinuous transmission" published on May
> 20, 1998 referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff
> reads as under:-
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 176 of 257
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A7 hits the novelty of IN '723; No
details about how EP '301 hits the novelty of IN '723 have been disclosed as
merely certain portions have been extracted from the main body of the
document.
A7 discloses 'modifying comfort The Defendant is seeking to value parameters
using mislead this Hon'ble Court by background noise' portraying its own
averments and contentions as excerpts contained in EP '301. Further, there is
no figure 4c in EP '301.
EP '301 does not disclose anywhere generation of modified comfort noise
parameters based on the variability information of the actual background noise
parameters.
EP '301 rather solves another problem generally associated with comfort noise
generation, i.e., to generate a smoother enough Comfort Noise spectrum by
producing extra comfort noise parameters (i.e. RESC parameters -Random
Excitation Spectral Control parameters) in the encoder.
It has a disadvantage of using extra bandwidth as these additional parameters
are transmitted to the decoder. S CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 177 of 257
xii) With respect to Prior Art Document A8 - WO1998048524 titled "Method and
apparatus for generating noise signals from speech signals" published on Oct.
29, 1998 referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff
reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A8 hits the novelty of IN '723 No
details about how A8 hits the novelty of IN '723 are provided as merely
certain portions have been extracted from the main body of the document;
A8 discloses all the features of A8 teaches generation of comfort IN '723;
noise so as to suppress an echo and also simultaneously blend it with the
continuing background noise, i.e., the objective of the said prior art is
completely different from that of the suit patent.
It was argued that if no speech A8 describes a way of generating is detected
for any frame, the replacement encoder parameters system in WO '524 calculates
(LPC, energy) when speech is not the comfort noise on the basis of detected,
using different averaging the background received in the periods for cases
where energy previous claims, which is same drops or energy increases have as
the inventive step of the suit been observed. patent.
Thus, the method of generating comfort noise as described in WO '524 is
completely different from the invention as detailed in IN '723 inasmuch as W0
'524 does not receive a plurality of conventional comfort noise parameter
values which are then modified based on CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 178 of 257
variability information at the decoder end.
A8 and IN '723 solve two different subjective quality problems. One makes the
signal more static so as to suppress an echo and the other adds variation to
make the signal less static.
D. IN 234157
i) With regard to the invention in Patent No. 234157 it has been argued by the
defendant that in the field of mobile communication, it is necessary that a
phone is able to distinguish between human voice and ambient noise, as
individual codes have been assigned for each type of noise. Digitization of a
signal takes place on the basis of such codes (that are stored in a codebook)
and their selection. It was also argued that there can exist many ways of
selecting codes from different codebooks which can be either probabilistic or
deterministic.
In this suit patent, selection of codebook is independent of signal type i.e.
the selection is not triggered or monitored by the input at the encoder side
but is performed by the receiver at the decoder side. As a result, bit rates
are saved as there is no need for transmission of information from encoder to
decoder.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 179 of 257
ii) The validity of the patent is challenged inter alia on the ground that:-
(a) CELP encoder is known;
(b) Existence of multiple codebooks is known;
(c) Selection of codebooks in a CELP encoder is known;
(d) The only contribution of the invention is 'deterministic selection
process' which is nothing but a computer program/algorithm.
iii) The present invention relates to a multi-codebook fixed bitrate Code-
Excited Linear Prediction (CELP) signal block encoding/decoding method and
apparatus and a multi- codebook structure. The plaintiff submits that in the
prior art CELP speech coders typically use codebooks to store excitation
vectors that are intended to excite synthesis filters to produce a synthetic
speech signal as instead of sending original speech signal (which will occupy
a lot of bandwidth), coded signal is sent to the decoder, which is then used
to produce synthetic speech signal. However, in the present suit patent , it
claims a multi-codebook fixed bitrate CELP signal block encoder/decoder along
with its method of operation, a code book selection apparatus and an algebraic
multi-codebook structure where the encoding/decoding is improved by using
several different equal size codebooks (each having different weakness for
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 180 of 257 any particular type of signal that is not
shared by the others) which are selected deterministically (without regard to
the signal type which is being encoded/decoded) wherein there is no explicit
need to transmit coding mode information from the encoder to the decoder.
iv) In conventional CELP speech coders, that employ codebooks to store
excitation vectors - for high bitrates, the codebooks contain a large variety
of excitation vectors to cope with a large spectrum of sound types. But, for
low bit rates, the number of bits for the codebooks is limited as a result the
number of vectors to choose from is reduced. Therefore, at low bit rates,
coders will have a codebook structure that is a compromise between richness
and accuracy. As a result, the speech quality will be highly inconsistent.
v) In order to overcome the aforesaid drawback, the following coding methods
were developed and known in the prior art:
\- Variable Bit Rate Coding Methods: which used dynamic bit allocation, where
the type of sound to be encoded controlled the number of bits that were used
for encoding;
\- Constant Bit Rate Coding Methods: which used several equal size codebooks
that are optimized to different sound types, where the sound type controlled
the codebook to be used for encoding;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 181 of 257
\- Constant Bit Rate Multi-mode Coding Methods:
> which used several equal size codebooks, where a previously determined
> adaptive codebook gain of a prior sub-frame is used to switch from one
> coding mode to another.
vi) The conventional solutions that depended on the sound type to be encoded,
which controlled the number of bits that are used for encoding or the codebook
that is to be used, required necessary transmission of mode information from
encoder to decoder in order for the decoder to use the correct decoding mode
thereby requiring extra bandwidth. Similarly, in the systems where such mode
information was implicitly transferred as a result of adaptive codebook gain
parameter, the coding in such systems/methods were sensitive to bit errors in
the gain factor caused by the transfer channel. As a result, a need was felt
to develop an encoder/decoder that can overcome all the aforesaid
drawbacks/disadvantages.
vii) A multi-codebook fixed bit rate CELP signal block encoder/decoder and a
method of its operation consisting of: selecting, for each signal block,
corresponding codebook identification in accordance with a deterministic
selection procedure that is independent of signal type; and encoding/decoding
each signal block by using a codebook having said selected codebook
identification.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 182 of 257
viii) The method/apparatus as disclosed and claimed by the subject patent :
\- Several different equal size codebooks are used;
\- Each codebook is weak for some signals and this weakness is not shared by
any other codebook;
\- Codebooks are selected deterministically (without regard to the signal
type);
\- As the same selection procedure is used at both the encoder and the decoder
side, the need to transfer the mode selection information is removed and
therefore, precious bandwidth is saved;
\- Further, coding quality is improved;
ix) Thus, the suit patent corresponds to mandatory part of standard and the
same is granted in other countries, the details of which are mentioned below:-
> Country Application Number Patent Number Argentina 990104662 AR020466B1
> Australia 63756/99 756483 Brazil 9913756/9 1179273 Canada 2343191 2343191
> China 99810993/2 ZL99810993-2 CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 183 of 257 Finland
> 99951292-4 1114413 France 99951292-4 Germany 99951292-4/08 India
> IN/PCT/2001/00246/MUM 234157 Italy 99951292-4 1114413 Japan 2000-570770
> 4651195 Malaysia 9903724 MY-121083-A Mexico 2001/002654 234995 Republic of
> Korea 2001/7003363 416362 Singapore 200101158/4 79388 South Africa 2001/1866
> 2001/1866 Sweden 9803164/4 9803164-4 Taiwan 88115553 NI-169190 United
> Kingdom 99951292-4 1114413 United States 09/395909 7146311 United States
> 11/007373 7194408 (Continuity Application)
> x) With respect to Prior Art Document A9 - European Patent EP 0751494,
> titled "Sound Encoding System", filed on December 19, 1995 and published on
> January 02, 1997 CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 184 of 257 granted to the
> plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff
> reads as under:
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response It was argued by defendant that EP
EP '494 does not anticipate IN '494 anticipates IN '157 despite '157 either
expressly or admitting in the revocation petition inherently; that EP '494
does not disclose selection/identification of codebook independent of signal
type, though it has been contended that the same can be contemplated by a
person skilled in the art. Thus, in the revocation petition it is argued that
EP '494 inherently anticipates IN '157.
In EP '494, there exists a EP '494 discloses and definite/specific method of
selection describes a 'pitch based' (to of code book which is based on the
differentiate between male and pitch value of input voice, therefore, female
voice) codebook it affects the validity of claim 1 of the selection which is
not Indian patent. independent of signal type.
Defendant has itself admitted that the selection procedure of the codebook as
disclosed in EP '494 is based on the input parameters of signal type EP '494
discloses a similar The requirement of sending codebook selection process as
mode information/parameters claimed in IN '157; continues to persist along
with the prevalence of sensitivity to bit errors in EP '494 Pages 2373-2374
were read and Thus, the solution proposed in relied upon; EP '494 is not
independent of signal type and necessarily CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 185 of 257
needs transmission of the signal related parameters for selection of codebook
and therefore, belongs to the category of coding methods whose disadvantages
are overcome by the invention of IN '157 patent;
xi) With respect to Prior Art Document A10 - Article titled "A 1.6 Kb/s MELP
Coder for Wireless Communication", published in IEEE Workshop on speech Coding
for Telecommunications Proceeding, held in September 1997 (McCree) granted to
the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by the
plaintiff reads as under:- Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A10
anticipates IN '157 as it Defendant is applying the test of discloses a
specific process for obviousness for arguing selection of codebook.
anticipation inasmuch as it has stated that '.............although A10 is
related to MELP speech coding standard, it maybe contemplated by a person
skilled in the art that the teachings of MELP coding algorithm could easily be
applied to CELP coding algorithm without undue experimentation......';
A10 does not anticipate IN '157 either directly or inherently;
A10 relates to a low rate MELP coder (and not to a CELP coder) where the sound
determines the CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 186 of 257 codebook to be used, i.e.,
it belongs to the conventional arts as described in the Background of the IN
'157 patent;
A10 renders IN '157 anticipated A person skilled in the art would in nature;
understand by a simple reading of the document A10 that the selection of the
predictor and the codebook is adaptive of the signal type and the
predictor/codebook that best fits the input signal is chosen in a closed loop
fashion.
Thus, the aforesaid article clearly belongs to the category of conventional
arts which have a flaw of consuming more bandwidth due to the necessity of
transferring mode information bit, along with sensitivity to bit errors.
xii) With respect to Prior Art Document A11 - Article titled "High Quality
Multi-Pulse based CELP Speech Coding at 6.4 Kbs and its subjective
evaluation", by Ozawa and Serijawa, presented in an IEEE conference, dated May
12- 15, 1998 granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the
response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A11 inherently anticipates IN A11
has been referred to by '157. the Plaintiff itself in the complete
specification of IN '157 as a conventional art (Reference No. [5]), having the
problem of 'being sensitive to CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 187 of 257 bit
errors'.
The 'novelty', 'inventive step' of IN '157 over A11 have been duly explained
and detailed in the complete specification.
The Defendant is applying the test of obviousness for arguing anticipation
where inter alia, it is being argued that the invention disclosed in A11 is
equal to that of the subject patent for practical utility and thus there is
inherent anticipation.
In A11, a signal type dependent adaptive codebook gain codebook selection
method has been described and emphasis is laid on having different
restrictions for voiced and unvoiced speech signals.
Even the Defendant has admitted that A11 discloses a codebook selection
process that is dependent on signal type.
Further, the codebook selection as per A11, based on voiced and unvoiced
signal, will be sensitive to voiced gain determination and to bit errors in
the adaptive gain value and also to frame-error/frame-loss of the previous
frame.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 188 of 257
On the other hand, IN '157 enables selection of codebook independent of signal
type and also does not involve prediction/selection of codebooks based on
gains stored in previous sub-frames thereby removing any dependence on gain
factors and hence in turn overcoming the sensitivity to bit errors.
xiii) With respect to Prior Art Document A12 - Article titled "Ultra-fast CELP
Coding using Deterministic Multi- Codebook Innovations", published in 1992
(Daniel Lin) granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the
response given by the plaintiff reads as under:- Defendant's contention
Plaintiff's response A12 renders IN '157 obvious in A12 is a conventional
multi-
nature as it discloses CELP mode CELP coder and it does coding using multi-
section not teach any of the inventive codebook of deterministic code steps of
the invention as sequences; claimed in IN '157;
In A12, signal type dependent measures viz. SNR (closed loop decision) or
phonetic classification are used to determine/select the final index in the
codebook for the purpose of transmission;
A12 does not show how to further improve the use of structured codebook,
beyond CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 189 of 257 sectioning it and using signal type
dependent measures to select a codebook specific section and a final multi-
section codebook index;
A12 merely teaches an improvement in the structure of codebooks and it does
not detail in any manner the method of deterministic selection of a codebook
from multiple codebooks for each signal block which is independent of the
signal type sought to be encoded.
E IN 203686
i) The invention in patent No.203686 relates to mode handling in the field of
communication systems and, more particularly, to handling the transmission of
information associated with requesting and identifying coding modes in digital
communication systems that support multiple speech/forward error correction
coding schemes.
ii) The contention of the plaintiff is that conventionally, different
modulations have been dynamically assigned to selectively take advantage of
the strengths of individual modulation schemes and to provide greater user bit
rates and/or increased resistance to noise and interference. Further, many
different combinations of these processing techniques may be selectively
employed both as between  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 190 of 257 different
connections supported by a radio-communication system and during the lifetime
of a single connection, which have to be informed to the receiving entity from
the transmitting entity which is done either explicitly i.e. by using message
field within the transmitted information or implicitly i.e. by blind decoding
- by analyzing the received signal.
iii) It is averred that the explicit information include (a) Mode indicators
(MI): which reflect transmitter's currently employed speech coding/channel
coding combination, (b) Mode requests (MR): which reflect the receiver's
request for a particular speech coding/channel coding mode to be employed.
These MI & MR bits are communicated between transmitting and receiving
entities to enable variable codec mode operations. Further, they are
communicated continuously during the lifetime of a connection, depending on
the varying channel condition.
iv) The suit patent corresponds to and the same is granted in other countries,
the details of which are mentioned below:-
Country Application Number Patent Number Australia 63767/99 767613 Brazil
PI9913758/5 Canada 2343057 2343057 China 99814439-8 ZL99814439-8 CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 191 of 257 European Patent 99951303.9 European Patent
10181600.7 India IN/PCT/200100324/MUM 203686 Japan 2000-570931 3834477 Mexico
2001/002701 230774 Republic of Korea 2001/7003340 669271 Russian 2001110094
2231227 Federation Singapore 200101391/1 79573 South Africa 2001/1998 20011998
United States 09/154,046 6452941
v) It is averred that the following objectives are achieved by the instant
patent which are mentioned herein below:
(a) Reduction in the number of overhead bits
(b) Improve in coding efficiency
(c) Reduction of bandwidth consumption Prior Art
vi) The prior art inter alia cited in the patent by the defendant stated that
communication of MI and MR between the transmitting and receiving entities so
as to enable variable codec mode operation was known.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 192 of 257
vii) In reply to prior art, it is the case of the plaintiff that the subject
patent claims a communication system and its method of operation wherein MI
and MR are properly decoded, while minimizing the number of overhead bits that
are transmitted along with reducing the delay associated with processing of
mode information. By invention, the plaintiff has achieved by decimating the
rate of transmission of MI & MR either by constraining the rate of change of
the MI or MR bits, or by preventing the transfer of mode information (MI/MR)
when there is a speech inactivity period.
This invention would help in reducing the bandwidth utilization associated
with mode information and/or permit heavier channel coding of the mode
information.
viii) With respect to Prior Art 'A10' - WO/1997/041549 titled "Encoding Mode
Control Method and Decoding Mode Determining Apparatus granted to the
plaintiff published on 6th November, 1997 referred by the defendant and the
response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A10 hits the novelty of IN '686;
The alleged prior art is conventional art as disclosed In view of A10, the
invention as in the background of the disclosed and claimed cannot be
invention wherein the receiver regarded as novel in nature; performs a 'blind
decoding' by trial for all possible speech/channel coding CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 193 of 257 combinations and selects the most probable one.
Thereafter, the receiver selects the same encoding mode for the return link to
the transmitter. It is pertinent to state herein that in WO '549 there is no
communication of mode information (mode indicators and mode requests) between
the transmitter and the receiver.
Further, A10 does not discuss decimation of transmission rate of MI & MR so as
to reduce overhead bits and to reduce the delay in processing mode
information.
A10 discloses that exchange of mode information has the advantage of being
less complex, however, A10 states that exchange of mode information has the
disadvantage of taking up large part of available band width for signaling
purpose The suit patent solves the above mentioned disadvantage of occupying
bandwidth by decimating the rate of transmission of MR/MI.
ix) With respect to Prior Art 'A11' - WO/1995/028814 titled "Air Interface
Adapting Method for a Mobile Radio System", CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 194 of
257 published on 26th October, 1995 (its US family member being US6134220,
published on Oct. 17, 2000) referred by the defendant and the response given
by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A11 hits the novelty of IN '686;
A11 does not deal with the issue of reducing overhead bits by In view of A11,
the invention as decimating the transmission rate disclosed and claimed cannot
be of MR/MI; regarded as novel in nature;
> A11 teaches how to select an optimal transmission mode (coding
> mode/allocation resource combination) when a call is initialized & how to
> change the said transmission mode during a call depending on the changing
> channel conditions (eg; increase in traffic in a cell, deterioration in
> quality of channel etc.) Its object is to limit the quantity of resources
> allocated in each transmission direction and/or to optimize transmission
> quality The invention of A11 deals with improved allocation of transmission
> resources, depending on the codec mode selected;
> A11 nowhere discloses or enables or teaches transmitting mode indication in
> a first frame CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 195 of 257 and transmitting coding
> mode request in a second frame different from the first frame between a
> transmitter & a receiver (i.e. decimation of transmission rate of mode
> information) so as to save on overhead bits while ensuring that multi-mode
> coding is efficiently supported by a radio communication system.
xi) With respect to Prior Art 'A13' - EP 0863682, titled "Mobile Communication
System", published on Sept. 9, 1998 referred by the defendant and the response
given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response A13 hits the novelty of IN '686;
No details about how A13 anticipates IN '686 have been provided in the
revocation In view of A13, the invention as petition and it has been disclosed
and claimed cannot be merely argued that since the regarded as novel in nature
alleged prior art teaches multi-mode coding and ability of transmitter and
receiver to communicate mode information to each other, it is being argued
that it anticipates the suit patent.
A13 does not disclose, enable or teach a communication system and its method
of operation CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 196 of 257 wherein MI and MR are
properly decoded, while minimizing the number of overhead bits that are
transmitted along with reducing the delay associated with processing of mode
information by decimating the transmission rate of MI/MR.
The alleged prior art merely discloses a base station that selects an
appropriate encoding method based on traffic conditions, surrounding
environment of the mobile station etc. and encodes the transmission signal
using the said encoding method and thereafter notifies a decoding method to
the mobile station Sending a mode command for the uplink transmission is not
the same as sending a mode request, as required by Plaintiff's claims. A mode
command offers much less flexibility to the receiver than a mode request in
selecting a mode. Moreover, A13 does not disclose anywhere the modified or
improved or decimated transmission of MI & MR as taught by the IN '686 patent,
where the MI is sent in one frame and the MR is sent in a different frame;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 197 of 257
F 3G Patent IN 229632
i) The invention in patent No.229632 relates to mobile stations and more
specifically to the ability of mobile stations to concurrently support
multiple data transmission services. It claims a mobile station that processes
multiple data services over a communications link between the said mobile
station and a base station by grouping transmissions from various radio
bearers services according to services having similar characteristics,
prioritizing the services within a particular grouping and scheduling the
transmission of the grouping in such a manner that set power levels are not
exceeded;
As a result, services with variable BER requirements and output power
requirements are easily accommodated without affecting the quality of
transmission.
Therefore, the claimed mobile station processes multiple data services having
substantially similar Quality of Service (QoS) requirements into a single
logical channel.
ii) It is defendant's contention that the suit patent claims multiplexing
simpliciter; In telecommunication multiplexing is a method by which multiple
analog message signals or digital data streams are combined into one signal
over a shared medium with the view to share an expensive resource i.e.
bandwidth.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 198 of 257
iii) It is submitted by the plaintiff that in the complete specification has
itself admitted that multiplexing was known, thus merely mixing oil and water
is not the subject matter of the invention and the Plaintiff has also
highlighted the drawback of simply multiplexing two services together onto a
single logic channel irrespective of their nature and Quality of Service (QoS)
requirements.
The suit invention inter alia claims a mobile station that is capable of
breaking down of different services into smaller data units and thereafter
multiplexing portions (i.e. units of services) having substantially similar
Quality of Services (QoS) requirements into transmission blocks of a single
logical channel.
It is contended that (mobile station) that can support multiple varied
services simultaneously are being developed on a regular basis. Such services
include real time services like speech, video etc. and non real time services
like file transfer etc. and problem arises in providing support for such
multiple varied services due to different requirements of each service.
Further, mapping of variable rate data services onto a single channel also
presents a problem.
In order to enable mobile stations able to concurrently support multiple
varied services, each having different requirements in terms of bit error
rates, power CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 199 of 257 requirements etc., the
conventional means employ techniques like creating a new physical channel for
each service every time a new service becomes available to the mobile station.
However, the same is undesirable from a mobile station complexity point of
view. Multiplexing each of the services together onto the same channel and
utilizing a single code on the channel. This solution is also inefficient
inasmuch as in a situation where two services have greatly differing bit error
rate requirements, the coding, interleaving and power control for the two
services must be performed in such a way that the service requiring the
strongest requirements is supported. This in turn leads to either spectrum
loss if the higher QoS requirements are supported or degradation of quality,
if lower QoS requirements are supported.
iv) It is submitted by the plaintiff that there is a Development of a mobile
station that is capable of:
a) Receiving and processing plurality of radio bearer services in a manner
that radio bearer services having substantially similar quality of services
requirements are combined into a single logical channel;
b) The radio bearer services are processed by separating the data within such
services into plurality of portions;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 200 of 257
c) Thereafter portions having similar quality of services requirements are
then multiplexed into transmission blocks of a single logical channel;
d) The number of portions per transmission block is variable;
e) Portions from different radio bearer services can be prioritized such that
high priority portions are transmitted prior to low priority portions without
altering the transmission rate of the single logical channel
f) Further the transmission blocks are scheduled in a such a manner that the
output power of the transceiver remains below the predetermined level;
g) Such predetermined level may vary in time;
v) The Suit patent corresponds to and the same is granted in other countries,
the details of which are mentioned below:-
Country Application Number Patent Number Argentina 980104755 AR013662B1
Australia 9286498 751653 Canada 2303065 2303065 China 98809427/4 ZL98809427.4
Germany 98945677/7 69829392.4-08 CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 201 of 257 India
2211/DEL/2005 233780 India 2818/Del/98 229632 Italy 98945677/7 1018274 Japan
2000-513423 3660245 Malaysia 9804371 MY-129869-A Republic of 2000/7003132
10-0666331 Korea South Africa 98/8426 98/8426 Taiwan 87115600 129744 United
Kingdom 98945677/7 1018274 United States 09/060736 6363058
vi) With respect to Prior Art Document - Article titled "Mobiware: QoS Aware
Middleware for Mobile Multimedia Communications" by Andrew T. Campbell granted
to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by the
plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response The above prior art hits the No
details about how novelty of IN '632; Campbell hits the novelty of IN '632 are
contained in the pleadings as merely certain portions have been extracted from
the main body of the document CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 202 of 257 It was
argued that Campbell Further, Campbell was relied discloses the manner in
which the upon to argue that it discloses services with similar QoS
multiplexing which is incorrect requirements are combined and and the same is
not the sent together i.e. multiplexing; subject matter of the suit patent;
Campbell hits the novelty of IN Campbell does not anticipate '632; IN '632 in
any manner whatsoever inasmuch as it teaches to Monitor base stations within a
cell in order to gauge whether another base station can provide a stronger
signal at desired QoS requirements Subsequently, based on the availability of
such a base station (on the basis of QoS parameters requested by a mobile
station) initiates a handoff from one base station to another.
vii) With respect to Prior Art Document - ETSI technical report (300-1) titled
"Terrestrial Trunked Radio Specification TETRA granted to the plaintiff
referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as
under: Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response The said prior art hits the
No details about how ETSI report novelty of IN '632; hits the novelty of IN
'632 are contained in the pleadings as merely certain portions have been
extracted from the main CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 203 of 257 body of the
document ETSI report discloses ETSI report is related to multiplexing based on
QoS Terrestrial Trunked Radio requirements and sending of (TETRA) technology,
which is data on a logical channel as different from 3G technology and
detailed in the suit patent; as such the said ETSI report cannot be read to
assert lack of novelty in the suit patent;
ETSI report is merely a 'read me first manual' and neither discloses nor
teaches the claimed invention of IN '632 The said prior art hits the Section
5.1.2 relied upon by the novelty of IN '632 Defendant merely states that the
MLE (Mobile Link Entity) performs inter alia quality of service selection
without providing any details as to how is the same performed or what is
exactly meant by 'Quality of Service Selection Similarly, the cited excerpt
from Section 5.6 of the said report provides no details/explanation of any
multiplexing/ combining operation, rather discusses only about how the network
layer PDUs (Protocol Data Units) are mapped onto the physical layer and does
not disclose or teach the claimed invention.
viii) With respect to Prior Art Document - EP0494284 titled "Method for
Prioritizing, Selectively Discarding & Multiplexing differing Traffic Type
Fast Packets granted to CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 204 of 257 the plaintiff
referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as
under:-
         Defendant's contention                   Plaintiff's response
         EP '284 hits the novelty of IN      No details about how EP '284
         '632;                               hits the novelty of IN '632 are
                                             contained in the pleadings as
                                             merely certain portions have
                                             been extracted from the main
                                             body of the document
EP '284 discloses multiplexing in EP '284 merely describes a an identical
manner as claimed in method to control the flow of IN '632; packets by
creating a queuing discipline, on the basis of various priorities of the fast
packets and not on the basis of QoS requirements EP '284 hits the novelty of
IN '632• Thus, EP '284 does not relate to a mobile station which maps radio
bearer services onto channels between itself and a base station after they
have been processed, separated into data blocks which are then multiplexed
with data blocks of other services having substantially similar QoS
requirements into transmission blocks which are transmitted by using a single
logical/transport channel.
ix) With respect to Prior Art Document - EP0676875 titled "Method & Apparatus
for multiplexed transmission of digital data having different code rates &
priorities" granted to the CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 205 of 257 plaintiff
referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as
under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response EP '875 hits the novelty of IN
'632 No details about how EP '875 hits the novelty of IN '632 are contained in
the pleadings as merely certain portions have been extracted from the main
body of the document;
EP '875 discloses every As per EP '875 multiplexing embodiment of claimed
invention occurs after separately encoding as it discloses multiplexing of
data the information streams to be and also discusses prioritizing of
multiplexed, thereby providing data before transmission; different (unequal)
error protection for the different streams.
Prioritization is done on the basis This multiplexing of all of available code
rates. convolutional coded data (with different QoS requirements) is EP '875
hits the novelty of IN '632 the only multiplexing/combining . operation
disclosed at a transmission apparatus in EP '875.It also means that EP '875
provides different (unequal) error protection for the different streams and
the benefit of IN '632, i.e., of sending the data in single logical channel
cannot be found in any manner in EP '875 G IN 240471
i) With regard to the invention in Patent No. 240471 it has been argued by the
defendant despite lack of supporting  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 206 of 257
pleading in its revocation petition, that the phrase 'add either a positive or
a negative offset to the measured radio- related parameter' as contained in
claim 1 of the corresponding US patent is missing in the subject Indian Patent
which has been obtained by way of misrepresentation. The above phrase is the
most crucial part of the patented invention and if such offset (positive or
negative) value is not added, then a smooth handover is not possible.
ii) It is contended by the plaintiff that Claim 1 read with claim 12 of the IN
'471 clearly indicates that the aforesaid contention raised by the defendant
is false, incorrect and misleading in nature. As the present invention relates
to the use of a mobile radio station as a measurement tool for a radio access
network.
It claims a mobile station that has the ability to perform event-based or
driven reporting of mobile station measurement, wherein:-
(a) the mobile radio station measures radio-related parameter/s for one or
more cells in a radio access network;
(b) the mobile radio station evaluates the measured radio-related parameters
with respect to predetermined condition/s or event/s;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 207 of 257
(c) The mobile radio station determines whether the predetermined condition/s
or event/s has been satisfied or that the event/s has occurred;
(d) Based on such evaluation, the mobile radio station sends the measurement
report to the radio access network thereby allowing the network to take timely
and appropriate action.
Once a report is received, the network may analyze the report information and
may perform, if necessary, responsive or other desirable operations like
handover or power control. The invention helps in achieving the objective of
providing timely and relevant measurement reports by mobile stations without
occupying large bandwidths and allowing radio network to promptly and
effectively respond to changed network conditions with minimal signaling
between the mobile and base stations. The radio-related parameters to be
measured, the predetermined conditions/events etc. can be modified.
iii) It is alleged by the plaintiff that in cellular radio communications
systems, in order to effectively manage handover, power control and other
important operations, the network is required to know its current status. The
status can be measured by detecting current values of various radio related
parameters at different locations in the network. Such measurement can be done
by CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 208 of 257  suitably located sensors and
monitoring equipment
\- Cost of installation, maintenance etc. is prohibitive  using mobile radio
station for providing periodic measurement reports
\- If reporting time too long, reports become outdated or too slow to changing
network conditions
\- If reporting time is reduced, leads to increased signaling, which in turn
leads to decreased bandwidth availability, increased interference, drainage of
mobile battery
iv) It is also alleged that a mobile radio station having the ability to
perform event-based or driven reporting of mobile station measurement,
wherein:
(a) the mobile radio station measures radio-related parameter/s for one or
more cells in a radio access network;
(b) the mobile radio station evaluates the measured radio-
related parameters with respect to predetermined condition/s or event/s;
(c) The mobile radio station determines that the predetermined condition/s is
satisfied or that the event/s has occurred.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 209 of 257
Based on such evaluation, the mobile radio station sends a report to the radio
access network thereby allowing the network to take timely and appropriate
action.
v) Suit patent corresponds to mandatory part of standard and the same is
granted in other countries, the details of which are mentioned below:-
         Country               Application Number      Patent Number
         Argentina             P000102453              AR025840B1
         Australia             49635/00                774570
         Belgium               00931815-5              1179273
         Brazil                PI0010645-3             ZL98809427.4
         China                 00810364-X              ZL00810364.X
         Germany               00931815-5              60040066.2
         India                 IN/PCT/2001/01411/MUM   240471
         Indonesia             W-00 2001 02502         ID0017741
         Italy                 00931815-5              1179273
         Japan                 2000-619224             4567210
         Malaysia              PI20002164              MY-123646-A
         Netherlands           00931815-5              1179273
         Republic         of   2001-7014745            0786910
         Korea
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                          Page 210 of 257
         South Africa         2001/9230                     2001/9230
        Spain                00931815-5                    1179273
        Switzerland          00931815-5                    1179273
        Taiwan               89108397                      NI-162861
        United Kingdom       00931815-5                    1179273
        United States        09/314019                     6445917
vi) With respect to Prior Art Document 1 - Technology Standard Document TS
25.331 V1.0.0 published in April 1999 granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response TS 25.331 completely hits the
Misleading and incorrect novelty of IN '471; averments raised by the
Defendant.
It discloses use of mobile station Plaintiff itself disclosed and as a
measuring tool, which sends contributed the said technology event triggered or
event based that has been incorporated in measurement report; the aforesaid
standard.
Pages 653-656 were read and Thus, TS 25.331 cannot be relied upon; relied upon
as a prior art document to question the validity of IN '471 as per section 34
of the Patents Act, 1970\. Without prejudice, to the aforesaid no details
about publication and proof of the CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 211 of 257 same
has been provided, TS 25.331 establishes the essentiality of the IN '471 along
with the importance of the contribution made by the Plaintiff.
vii) With respect to Prior Art Document 2 - 3GPP Specification Document, TR
(Technical Report) 25.922 V.0.1.1, published in April 1999 granted to the
plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by the plaintiff
reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response Technical Report 25.922 hits the
No details about how the said novelty of IN '471 Technical Report hits the
novelty of IN '471 are contained in the pleadings as merely certain portions
have been extracted from the main body of the document.
It discloses soft handover, The said TR merely discusses measurement of radio-
parameters handover strategy employed by Mobile Station by the network and
details different types of handovers viz. hard handover, soft handover etc;
It discloses the concept of adding Merely on the ground that the offset to the
measured values by term 'offset' appears in the the mobile station present
document - IN '471 cannot be said to have been rendered anticipated in nature;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 212 of 257
Pages 731&732 were relied upon Lastly, no details/proof of publication has
been provided.
viii) With respect to Prior Art Document 3 - GSM Specification 3GPP TS 05.08
V3.8.0, published in January 1995 granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response GSM Specification 3GPP TS No
details about how the said 05.08 hits the novelty of IN '471. GSM
Specification hits the novelty of IN '471 are contained in the pleadings as
merely certain portions have been extracted from the main body of the
document;
It discloses overall handover The said GSM Specification process, mobile
station merely discusses conventional measurement procedures, handover
technique, wherein identification of neighbouring a mobile station can be used
base stations for handover as a measurement tool and reporting, measurement
reporting performs periodic which is event triggered etc; measurement
reporting Thus, the aforesaid document relates to periodic reporting and It
does not disclose any event based reporting as performed by the mobile station
of the suit patent.
ix) With respect to Prior Art Document 4 - GSM Specification, TS 04.08
V3.14.0, published March 1998 granted to the CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 213 of
257 plaintiff referred by the defendant and the response given by the
plaintiff reads as under:-
             Defendant's contention                   Plaintiff's response
             GSM Specification TS 04.08         No details about how the said
             anticipates the invention of IN    GSM Specification hits the
             '471                               novelty of IN '471 are contained
                                                in the pleadings as merely
                                                certain portions have been
                                                extracted from the main body of
                                                the document.
             It discloses mobile station        The said GSM specification
             measurement reporting, control     merely discusses conventional
of reporting and event triggered handover technique detailing reporting etc.
the concept of hard handover.
Further, the measurement reports are sent by the mobile station on a regular
basis and thus, the same is not event triggered or event based.
H Edge Patent IN 241747
i) The invention in patent No.241747 generally relates to error handling in
the field of communication systems and more particularly, to error handling
using automatic retransmission requests (ARQ) in digital communication systems
that support multiple Forward Error Correction (FEC) Coding and/or modulation
schemes.
It claims a novel and inventive transceiving unit for error handling using ARQ
technique by dividing the blocks  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 214 of 257 that
were erroneously received and retransmitting them using a different FEC Coding
and/or modulation scheme than the one used originally. As a result, it
significantly enhances system performance and provides greater flexibility to
cope with changes in a communication system and RF channel conditions.
ii) It is contended by the defendant that due to inter alia the tremendous
increase in the number of mobile stations within the limited bandwidth
available in a cellular telecommunication system - there has been an increase
in interference between mobile stations operating on the same frequency in
neighbouring or closely spaced cells resulting in erroneous transmission of
information.
iii) Conventional digital communication systems employ various techniques to
handle erroneously received information, which generally include: those which
aid the receiver to correct the erroneously received information, eg: FEC i.e.
Forward Error Correction techniques; and those which enable information, which
was erroneously received, to be retransmitted to the receiver eg: ARQ i.e.
Automatic Retransmission Request techniques, where the retransmission is
performed upon a request received from the receiver.
iv) It is stated by the plaintiff that the conventionally known methods
(including error correction techniques) used to CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 215
of 257 improve communication quality suffered from various drawbacks such as:
(a) only the modulation scheme could be varied (US 5577087) which in turn
entailed change in channel bit rate for example the number of timeslots used
to support a transmission channel;
(b) In the known ARQ techniques, for retransmitting the erroneously received
block, the originally selected coding scheme must be used for retransmission;
(c) In the known ARQ techniques (PCT/F196/00259), if the coding scheme is
changed, then it affects the entire connection rather than only the
retransmitted block;
• As a result, flexibility in terms of block segmentation or user bit rate
adjustment was absent whereby coding scheme or modulation of only the
erroneously received block that is to be retransmitted is changed and a
transcieving unit for block automatic retransmission request, comprising:
\- a receiving means that can receive a negative acknowledgement signal
indicating that a block was erroneously received;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 216 of 257
\- a dividing means for selectively dividing the erroneously received block
into two or more blocks whenever such negative acknowledgment is received;
\- a transmitting means for retransmitting such erroneously received blocks
using a second modulation/FEC coding scheme different from the FEC Coding
and/or Modulation Scheme used for original transmission.
v) It is the case of the plaintiff that the drawbacks and limitations of the
conventional methods are overcome by the present invention, as:
(a) Modulation and/or FEC coding is adjusted ONLY for the retransmitted
blocks;
(b) Flexible re-segmentation/mapping of ONLY the information blocks to be
retransmitted occurs;
(c) Thus, the overall system performance is improved as greater flexibility is
provided to cope with the changes in the system and channel conditions;
vi) The Plaintiff's in the complete specification (in the Background) has
itself admitted that communication systems which used different modulation
schemes to communicate voice or data information were known. The Plaintiff has
also admitted that use of different FEC coding CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 217 of
257 schemes and Automatic Retransmission Request (ARQ) for error correction
was known.
Thus, documents detailing 'use of ARQ for error correction', or 'use of FEC
for error correction', or 'use of different modulation schemes for
communicating voice/data' - cannot be relied upon to invalidate IN '747;
vii) The Suit patent corresponds and the same is granted in other countries,
the details of which are mentioned below:-
Country Application Number Patent Number Australia 90121/98 751651 Brazil
9811429/8 751653 Canada 2301945 2301945 China 98810573 ZL98810573.X European
Patent 10182150.2 69829392.4-08 Germany 98941974.2 69842640.1 Hong Kong
01104151/6 1033515 India 1998-2490/DEL 241747 India 3555/DEL/2005 3660245
Italy 98941974.2 1010287 Malaysia 98003831 MY119573-A CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
218 of 257 Mexico 2000002093 217816 Republic of Korea 10-2000-7002137 0528419
Spain 98941974.2 1010287 Taiwan 87113526 115401 United Kingdom 98941974.2
1010287 United States 08/921147 6208663
viii) With respect to Prior Art Document - US 5559810, titled "Communication
of Data Reception History Information", granted to Crisler et. al and
published on Sep. 24, 1996 granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant
and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:- Defendant's
contention Plaintiff's response The above prior art anticipates IN US '810
does not anticipate '747 as US '810 discloses each IN '747 in any manner and
every element of the claimed whatsoever inasmuch as it invention detailed in
IN '747. relates to an apparatus for However, during the course of and method
for determining arguments, defendant changed its data reception history stand
to argue that US '810 information; inherently anticipates IN '747;
Thus, US '810 discloses:
> -Storing and updating data reception history for a particular modulation
> scheme;
> -Such data reception history CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 219 of 257 includes
> information regarding the reception of data blocks if occurred with or
> without any error, over a period of time;
> -Data reception history information is then used to determine an estimate of
> transmission signal quality;
US '810 inherently anticipates IN US '810 does not disclose or '747; teach the
following in any manner whatsoever:
No details as to how us '810 anticipates in '747 are provided in A
transcieving unit for block the revocation petition inasmuch automatic
retransmission as merely certain extracts and request, comprising claims have
been quoted by intex
-a receiving means that can receive a negative acknowledgement signal indicating that a block was erroneously received; 
                                               -a    dividing   means      for
                                               selectively    dividing    the
                                               erroneously received block
                                               into two or more blocks
                                               whenever      such    negative
                                               acknowledgment is received;
                                               -a transmitting means for
                                               retransmitting         such
                                               erroneously received blocks
                                               using         a     second
                                               modulation/FEC       coding
                                               scheme different from the
                                               FEC        Coding    and/or
                                               Modulation Scheme used for
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                              Page 220 of 257
                                               original transmission;
ix) With respect to Prior Art Document - US 5487068, titled "Method for
Providing Error Correction using Selective Automatic Repeat Requests in a
Packet-Switched Communication System", granted to Clanton et al. and published
on Jan. 23, 1996 granted to the plaintiff referred by the defendant and the
response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response US '068 anticipates IN '747 as it
Intex has merely relied upon discloses each and every certain extracts of US
'068 and element of the claimed invention. has tabulated claim 1 of both US
'068 and IN '747 without highlighting or explaining the alleged correlation
between the elements as shown therein. The table does not show the presence of
any of the claimed features of IN '747 in US '068;
Reliance placed on the fact that US '068 addresses a completely US '068
discusses ARQ; different issue related to the conventional ARQ techniques
where there is a need to send feedback messages from an ARQ receiver to an ARQ
transmitter, so that the ARQ transmitter can re-transmit blocks that are
reported as erroneous or missing;
Claims of US '068 were read; US '068 details a solution whereby a subscriber
unit CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 221 of 257 transmits acknowledgement information
in a packet-switched data communication system using a contention free channel
access scheme in addition to providing for a base site control unit to
interrupt a packet currently being transmitted in order to retransmit segments
of the packet when the segments have errors with the view to save both time
delay and packet delay.
US '068 anticipates the invention Thus, US '068 does not disclose as claimed
in the suit patent a novel and inventive when read with US '810; transcieving
unit for error handling using ARQ technique by selectively dividing the blocks
that were erroneously received and retransmitting them using a different FEC
Coding and/or modulation than the one used originally thereby significantly
enhancing system performance and providing greater flexibility to cope with
changes in a communication system and RF channel conditions - as detailed in
IN '747.
x) With respect to Prior Art Document - EP 0350238(A3), titled 'Data
Communicating Apparatus', published on January 10, 1990 by Toshio Azuma
(deemed to be withdrawn on 04/08/1990 granted to the plaintiff referred by
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 222 of 257 the defendant and the response given by
the plaintiff reads as under:
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response EP '238 read with US '810 hits
Intex has merely filed the abstract the inventive step of IN '747; related to
EP '238 along with its revocation petition. As the same is incomplete in
nature, Intex cannot place any reliance on EP '238;
WITHOUT PREJUDICE to the aforesaid, no details as to how EP '238 read with US
'810 renders IN '747 obvious in nature are contained in the revocation
petition.
As per the abstract and certain paragraphs of the EP '238 patent extracted by
Intex - it is evident that EP '238 does not relate to the subject matter of IN
'747 as it merely discloses that:
a) information message is sub-
divided into data blocks of predetermined length;
b) when the number of data block transmission errors exceeds a fixed value,
then the data blocks to be subsequently transmitted (including blocks that are
to be retransmitted) are further sub-
divided into smaller data blocks;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 223 of 257
xi) With respect to Prior Art Document - US 4149142, titled "Signal
Transmission system with an Error Control Technique", published on Apr. 10,
1979 and granted to Kageyama et al. granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response US '142 read with US '810 In the
revocation petition merely renders IN '747 obvious in Claim 1 of US '142 has
been nature; extracted without detailing as to how US '142 read with US '810
renders IN '747 obvious in nature;
> US '142 has been cited by Intex solely on the ground that it discusses ARQ
> technique despite the fact that the Plaintiff has itself admitted that use
> of ARQ technique for error correction was known;
> US '142 discloses a technique wherein after an error control signal
> requesting retransmission is received by the transmitter -
> the transmitter transmits a fresh error free data block corresponding to the
> error control signal received from the receiving section without determining
> whether the control signal so received is erroneous or not.;
> US '142 does not disclose or teach use of different FEC coding/modulation
> scheme for CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 224 of 257 selective retransmission of
> only that block which was initially erroneously transmitted and not the
> entire data length Intex has admitted at Pg. 27 of the revocation petition
> that US '142 does not disclose re-
> transmission of the erroneously transmitted block using a second modulation
> scheme;
xii) With respect to Prior Art Document - EP 0054118, titled 'Improved go-
back-N Automatic Repeat Request Communication Systems', published on Jan. 9,
1985 and granted to Lin et al. granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response EP '118 read with US '810 In the
revocation petition merely renders IN '747 obvious in nature; Claim 1 of EP
'118 has been extracted without detailing as to how EP '118 read with US '810
renders IN '747 obvious in nature;
EP '118 discloses a modified go-back-n automatic repeat request (ARQ)
communication system as opposed to the conventional Go-Back-N ARQ systems;
As per the EP '118 modified CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 225 of 257 system along
with the sequence of information blocks, error detecting check bits are also
sent by the transmitter to the receiver where each received block is checked
for apparent error and an acknowledgement signal (ACK or NAK) is sent as a
result of each check. If a negative acknowledgement is sent, then the
transmission sequence is interrupted by the transmitter who then retransmits
the last N blocks to reestablish the sequence at the receiver to include the
detected faulty block characterized in that:
EP '118 read with US '810 The detected faulty blocks are renders IN '747
obvious in nature; buffered at the receiver;
> • The retransmitted blocks contain not the original data but a correcting
> code derived therefrom;
> Regenerating those received blocks, detected to have been faulty, at the
> receiver using retransmitted correcting code form thereof;
> Further, Intex has admitted at Pg. 28 of the revocation petition that EP
> '118 does not disclose re-transmission only of the erroneously transmitted
> block using a second modulation scheme.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 226 of 257
x) With respect to Prior Art Document - US 4149142, titled "Signal
Transmission system with an Error Control Technique", published on Apr. 10,
1979 and granted to Kageyama et al. granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response US '142 read with US '810 renders
In the revocation petition IN '747 obvious in nature; merely Claim 1 of US
'142 has been extracted without detailing as to how US '142 read with US '810
renders IN '747 obvious in nature;
US '142 has been cited by Intex solely on the ground that it discusses ARQ
technique despite the fact that the Plaintiff has itself admitted that use of
ARQ technique for error correction was known;
US '142 discloses a technique wherein after an error control signal requesting
retransmission is received by the transmitter - the transmitter transmits a
fresh error free data block corresponding to the error control signal received
from the receiving section without determining whether the control signal so
received is erroneous or not.;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 227 of 257
US '142 does not disclose or teach use of different FEC coding/modulation
scheme for selective retransmission of only that block which was initially
erroneously transmitted and not the entire data length Intex has admitted at
Pg. 27 of the revocation petition that US '142 does not disclose re-
transmission of the erroneously transmitted block using a second modulation
scheme;
xi) With respect to Prior Art Document - EP 0054118, titled 'Improved go-
back-N Automatic Repeat Request Communication Systems', published on Jan. 9,
1985 and granted to Lin et al. granted to the plaintiff referred by the
defendant and the response given by the plaintiff reads as under:-
Defendant's contention Plaintiff's response EP '118 read with US '810 renders
In the revocation petition IN '747 obvious in nature; merely Claim 1 of EP
'118 has been extracted without detailing as to how EP '118 read with US '810
renders IN '747 obvious in nature;
                                            EP    '118  discloses   a
                                            modified        go-back-n
                                            automatic repeat request
                                            (ARQ)      communication
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                            Page 228 of 257
                                               system as opposed to the
                                              conventional  Go-Back-N
                                              ARQ systems;
                                              As per the EP '118 modified
                                              system along with the
                                              sequence of information
                                              blocks,     error     detecting
                                              check bits are also sent by
                                              the transmitter to the
                                              receiver      where       each
                                              received block is checked
                                              for apparent error and an
                                              acknowledgement          signal
                                              (ACK or NAK) is sent as a
                                              result of each check. If a
                                              negative acknowledgement
                                              is     sent,      then      the
                                              transmission sequence is
                                              interrupted        by       the
                                              transmitter      who       then
                                              retransmits the last N blocks
                                              to reestablish the sequence
                                              at the receiver to include the
                                              detected       faulty     block
                                              characterized in that:
          EP '118 read with US '810 renders    •   The detected faulty
          IN '747 obvious in nature;               blocks are buffered at
                                                   the receiver;
                                               •   The        retransmitted
                                                   blocks contain not the
                                                   original data but a
                                                   correcting code derived
                                                   therefrom;
                                               •   Regenerating       those
                                                   received         blocks,
                                                   detected to have been
                                                   faulty, at the receiver
                                                   using      retransmitted
                                                   correcting code form
    CS(OS) No.1045/2014                                               Page 229 of 257
                                                     thereof;
                                               Further, Intex has admitted
                                               at Pg. 28 of the revocation
                                               petition that EP '118 does
                                               not disclose re-transmission
                                               only of the erroneously
                                               transmitted block using a
                                               second modulation scheme.
126\. There are no specific rules about the construction of the specification
except, it is always appropriate to read the specification as a whole in order
to appreciate as to whether the claims raised in the patent are valid or the
same offend the provisions of the Act as well as the prior art. Halsbury's
Laws of England, 5th Edn. Vo. 35 point 6 in para 440 to 443 indicate about
construction of specification and claim which read as under :
> 440\. General rule. No special rules are applicable to the construction of
> the specification of a patent. As the specification is addressed to
> technically skilled persons, the court must be instructed as to the meaning
> of technical terms and the background of the art, so as to read the
> specification with the understanding of the technician. The question of
> construction is necessarily antecedent to the determination of the issue of
> infringement and of all issues of validity depending upon the scope of the
> claims.
441\. Construction. A specification is construed neither in favour of nor
against the proprietor of the patent. It should be so construed as not to lead
to a foolish result or one which the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 230 of 257
proprietor could not have contemplated; for example, the court will tend to
avoid constructions which would make the claim cover what the specification
admits to be old or is the negation of the whole point of the invention.
442\. Reading of specification as a whole. The specification is to be read as
a whole, including any drawings; the claims are only a part of the
specification (although a part having a special function), and in no sense
comprise a separate document. The body of the specification should be read
first. The title is part of the specification for the purposes of
construction. In reading a specification, a distinction must be drawn between
introductory statements as to the purpose of the invention or the class of
apparatus to which it relates and the description of the invention itself.
443\. Construction of claims. A claim must be read as an ordinary English
sentence, without incorporating into it extracts from the body of the
specification, or changing its meaning by reference to language used in the
body of the specification, even the language of a consistory clause. The
specification must, however, be read as a whole because thereby the necessary
background of the words used in the claims may be affected or defined by what
is said in the body of the specification. The specification should be given a
purposive construction rather than a purely literal one, so as to determine
which features are put forward by it as the essential features of CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 231 of 257 the invention and, in particular, whether persons
with practical knowledge and experience of the kind of work in which the
invention was intended to be used would understand that strict compliance with
particular words or phrases of the claim was intended by the proprietor of the
patent to be essential; only where this is the intention will the patent be
avoided by variants having no material effect on the say the invention works.
The body of the specification should be referred to for the purpose of
resolving difficulties of construction occasioned by the claims when read by
themselves.
Where there is a statement in the specification of the advantages of an
invention, or of the difficulties which it overcomes, a claim whose
construction is in doubt will be read, if possible, as limited to forms having
these advantages or adapted to meet these difficulties. It is not permissible,
however, to use the specification of an old patent to limit the scope of
claims which are themselves insufficiently or unclearly defined, nor is it
permissible to construe a claim by reference to an alleged infringement.
127\. Having gone through the objection raised by the defendant which is duly
replied by the plaintiff and after considering the same, this Court is of the
opinion that all claims of 8 subject matter of suit patents cannot be examined
minutely or be interpreted in microscopically manner at the interim stage in a
suit for infringement of patent. The issue of validity of patent cannot be
finally determined at  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 232 of 257 this stage in view
of pending revocation petitions before the Tribunal. At present, only the
prima facie view of the matter is to be examined as to whether grounds taken
in the revocation petition are tenable or not. After having gone through the
objections raised by the defendant and reply given by the plaintiff, prima
facie the suit patents appear to be valid and Court does not find any
plausible case of a credible defence raised by the defendant. The argument
preferred by the defendant cannot be accepted at present as there are other
many reasons which negate the arguments of the defendant about the validity of
the suit patents. Such details are given in the subsequent paras of my
judgment.
128\. The defendant in the complaint filed by it before the Competition
Commission of India (CCI) has alleged about abuse of dominance by plaintiff by
pleading in the following manner :
> a) Plaintiff owns a large portfolio of Standard Essential Patents related to
> 2G, 3G technology etc. and as such enjoys a position of dominance qua the
> same;
> b) DoT requires all importers of the network equipments to abide by the
> various standards developed by the various Standard Setting Bodies including
> ETSI;
> c) Thus, any manufacturer/importer of telecommunication devices (mobile
> handsets/tablets) has to obtain licenses in respect of plaintiff's standard
> essential patents;
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 233 of 257
> d) Defendant also is necessarily required to employ such patents in its
> telecommunication devices (handsets, tablets etc.);
129\. In Para 3.2 of the Complaint as filed before the CCI (the Complaint), it
was stated that it was completely unaware about the fact if 'the
components/technology contained in the handsets (of defendant) violated the
patent rights of third parties, such as Ericsson.
130\. In Paragraphs 8.6 to 8.8, defendant has specifically pleaded that the
Standard Essential Patents (SEPs) of plaintiff, which form a part of the 2G/3G
technology, are necessarily to be applied/used by any Indian telecom/mobile
phone operator, in light of the notifications by Department of Telecom and the
UASL Agreement thereby leaving defendant and all such companies with 'no non-
infringing alternatives' than to implement the SEPs owned by Ericsson in the
domain of 2G/3G technology, including the suit patents.
Thus, it is submitted by the plaintiff that defendant has clearly admitted
infringement qua plaintiff's Standard Essential Patent portfolio including the
suit patents.
131\. The relevant portions of the said complaint are being extracted herein
below :
> "..........
> 7.12 In addition to Ericsson's patents being accepted as the industry
> standard by ETSI, it is also pertinent to note that in India, the Department
> of Telecommunications (DoT) has formally accepted the technology standards
> formulated by  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 234 of 257 ETSI. This can be clearly
> seen from the "Unified Access Services License" Agreement (UASL) Agreement,
> enclosed as ANNXURE M that every telecom player in India is required to
> enter into with the DoT................
7.13 In the arena for GSM technology, ETSI standards are the only ones that
are relevant, i.e. ETSI standards are not an alternate to other standards. The
Wireless Planning and Coordination Wing (WPCW) of the Ministry of
Communication and Information Technology letter dated October 3, 2008, which
is enclosed as ANNEXURE N, mandates that network equipment for GSM and CDMA
technologies for import should comply with international standards provided by
bodies like 3GPP / 3GPP2/ ETSI/IETF/ANSI/ EIA/TIA/IS.
................................................
............................................... 8.4 In addition to Ericsson's
patents having been declared as essential to ETSI, it is also pertinent to
note that in India, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has formally
accepted the technology standards formulated by ETSI. This can be clearly seen
from the "Unified Access Services License" Agreement (UASL) Agreement that
every telecom player in India is required to enter into with the DoT.
Therefore, in lndia, by virtue of DOT mandating ETSI standards for GSM and
related technology, Ericsson is a dominant player in the relevant market as
described above. ..........................................................
........................................................ 8.6 Thus, it is
submitted that the only way for an Indian telecom player to comply with an
ETSI/3GPP GSM standards in India is to obtain a license from each of the
parties who assert their patents to be essential to the GSM technology
standard and Ericsson is one such party which claims to own over 25-35% of
SEPs pertaining to the GSM Standard.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 235 of 257
As stated above, many of its SEPs are also registered under the Indian Patent
Law. Therefore, in so far as the GSM technology standard is concerned, where
Ericsson's patent is declared "Standard Essential", Ericsson remains
unaffected by its ability to set the terms of its engagement with potential
licensees. Every player in the Indian GSM market, including handset
manufactures and mobile network operators who operate in GSM arena (2G, 3G and
4G) has to obtain license of Ericsson for the GSM Standard Essential Patents.
8.7 As a result of its huge portfolio of standard essential patents, for which
there are NO NON-INFRINGING ALTERNATIVES, the company is in a position to
operate independently of any competitive forces/ pressures in the relevant
market. Based on the power of its ownership over a large pool of SEPs,
Ericsson is in a position to set the terms and conditions for making its SEPs
available to the customers without any constrain and thereby alter the market
in its favour.
8.8 Even though Ericsson claims to own 25-35% SEPs of GSM and related
technologies, the informant believes based on several studies, that Ericsson's
claimed SEPs, which have a bearing on its royalty structure, may not be either
valid or essential or both. However, notwithstanding the above, there cannot
be any doubt that Ericsson indeed owns a large number of SEPs relevant to the
standards, which is why the informant has entered into negotiations with
Ericsson so as to obtain its licenses at fair terms despite not being guided
either by these independent studies or Ericsson itself with respect to the
specific patents which are applicable to and deemed essential for mobile
devices imported by the informant. Had it not been so, neither the informant
nor any other market participant would have considered it necessary to obtain
the required licenses for SEPs owned by Ericsson so as to operate in the
market. Thus, market participant view Ericsson as a dominant enterprise, by
virtue of the fact that it owns essential SEPs CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 236 of
257 and every prospective licensee has to obtain licenses from it, which
enables it to operate independent of any competitive forces operating in the
relevant market and thereby to affect the consumers and the market in its
favour.
....................
....................."
(emphasis added)
132\. In its Counter Affidavit filed by defendant in the W.P(C) 1006/2014
(filed by plaintiff against the CCI's order dated 16th January ,2014) it has
been specifically admitted by defendant that it requires a license in respect
of plaintiff's eight standard essential patents. From the aforesaid averment
of defendant inference can be drawn that the said eight patents mentioned in
defendant's Counter Affidavit, are the patents which are the subject matter of
the present suit as these are the same very patents against which revocation
petitions have been filed by defendant before the IPAB.
The relevant extract of the said counter affidavit is being extracted herein
below for convenience of this Court:
> "......
> (v) It was also categorically stated that the Petitioner was offering an
> entire bouquet of 33,000 (approx.) patgents when in fact the Respondent No.
> 2 only required the 8 Standard Essential Patents, registered with ETSI, thus
> indulging in bundling and tie in licensing." (emphasis supplied)  CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 237 of 257
133\. There was no disclosure made to the CCI by defendant about filing of
revocation petitions before the IPAB. The entire complaint was made mainly on
the plea about dominant position of the plaintiff as alleged by the defendant.
Whereas, before this Court, it is being argued that none of the suit patents
are either essential or valid. Thus, there is no force in the submission of
the defendant that there was no admission and in fact it was merely a
reiteration of the averment of the plaintiff.
134\. Even in its revocation petitions filed before the IPAB for plaintiff's
eight patents, the defendant has admitted that all the said eight patents
"directly relates to the business of applicant".
135\. Apart from the various admissions made by defendant, the plaintiff has
also placed on record sufficient material in order to establish infringement,
proof of essentiality of the suit patents in the form of claim chart mapping
supported by an Expert Affidavit. The plaintiff has also placed on record
proof of infringement in the form of test reports supported by affidavit of
plaintiff's representative. On the other hand no technical/scientific material
or expert affidavit has been filed on behalf of defendant to show even a prima
facie case of invalidity of the Suit Patents or non-infringement of the suit
patents.
136\. The defendant initially did not approach the plaintiff to seek a license
before commencing activities related to telecommunication devices (mobile
handsets/tablets/dongles etc). It was the plaintiff who in view of its FRAND
commitment approached the defendant about its portfolio of Standard Essential
Patents and offered a FRAND license in  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 238 of 257
December, 2008. The defendant despite of many meetings and negotiation for the
purpose of execution of a FRAND license, the defendant was evidently avoiding
the same and became unwilling licensee as per its overall conduct. Even during
the hearing of interim application the defendant has not made any reasonable
and fruitful offer to make the royalty except the suggestion is made to pay
royalty on the cost of chip. But in the same breath, it was argued by the
counsel on behalf of the defendant that the suit patents are not valid patents
and have no standard essential patents. No satisfactory answer was given by
the defendant to the effect that if the defendant was not infringing the
patents of the plaintiff which are other patents and is essential patents then
why the defendant was corresponding, meeting and negotiating with the
plaintiff for the last five years.
137\. No doubt, the defendant has initiated proceedings against the plaintiff
under the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002, but it is evident that it
was done solely with the view to prolong litigation by avoiding paying the
royalty. The defendant imports telecommunication devices (handsets, dongles
etc.) into India & does not in any manner contribute towards development and
growth of the indigenous telecommunication industry. There was no due
diligence conducted by defendant qua any of the devices being imported by it
in India in order to ascertain whether the same are infringing patent rights
of any party or not.
138\. The defendant has even denied having knowledge qua plaintiff's patent
portfolio in India that are essential in nature vis-à-vis 2G, 3G  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 239 of 257 technologies etc. The defendant took more than 4
years in executing a Non-Disclosure Agreement which is a sine qua non in every
licensing deal, particularly in patent licensing negotiations which entails
exchange of various confidential business and technical information between
the parties.
139\. The conduct of the defendant would show that if despite of unwillingness
to obtain a FRAND license, meeting held between representatives of both the
parties on 23rd May, 2013 that the revised rates offered by plaintiff may be
acceptable to defendant. But the defendant later on took a resile from the
same and initiated proceedings before the IPAB and CCI against plaintiff
during the months of August and September 2013, i.e., while the licensing
negotiation were still going on between the parties. While giving the
impression to the plaintiff that it is still bonafidely interested in taking a
license from plaintiff. The defendant never informed plaintiff that it is
initiating or has initiated any proceedings before the IPAB and the CCI.
140\. On one hand defendant gave the impression to plaintiff that it wanted to
obtain a license for plaintiff's essential patents which were being used by it
in various telecommunication devices (mobile handsets/tablets/dongles etc.)
being imported and sold by defendant in India, and on the other hand it filed
Complaint/Information before the CCI and Revocation Petition before the IPAB
(taking two different self- serving stands). The said conduct of the defendant
would show that there was no bonafide intention on part of defendant.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 240 of 257
141\. Before the CCI, defendant's complaint is based on the premise that
plaintiff is the owner of an essential patents to be used by any entity
(including defendant) involved in manufacture/import/sale/ marketing etc. of
telecommunication devices. As a result, plaintiff enjoys a dominant position
and is abusing the same by asking for excessive royalty rates. Before this
Court in the present suit, it is alleged by defendant that the suit patents
are invalid and are not essential in nature and plaintiff is not entitled to
the relief. The aforesaid stand has been taken despite the fact that before
the CCI it has admitted the essentiality of plaintiff's SEPs and on the same
basis, the defendant has obtained an order of investigation against plaintiff
by raising the main ground of dominant position of the plaintiff.
142\. Therefore, it appears that the defendant is infringing the suit patents.
Even otherwise, filing of complaint before CCI on the grounds of dominance
position of the plaintiff amounting to admission that the plaintiff's suit
patents are essential and valid, otherwise, there was no occasion to file the
complaint. In fact in order to avoid execution of FRAND agreement and at the
same time infringing the patents, the defendant had trapped himself in such a
position by taking the contrary stand in different fora.
143\. It is a well settled principle of law that an admission made by a party
in a pleading, even in a different proceeding, can be used as evidence against
such party in another proceeding. The aforesaid principle has been echoed in
various landmark judgments of the  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 241 of 257 Supreme
Court of India. Reliance is placed on Basant Singh vs. Janki Singh AIR 1967 SC
341 wherein it has observed:
> "5.The High Court also observed that an admission in a pleading can be used
> only for the purpose of the suit in which the pleading was filed. The
> observations of Beaumont, C.J. in Ramabai Shriniwas v. Bombay Government
> (AIR 1941 Bom 144) lend some countenance to this view. But those
> observations were commented upon and explained by the Bombay High Court in
> D.S. Mohite v. S.I. Mohite A.I.R. 1960 Bom. 153. An admission by a party in
> a plaint signed and verified by him in a prior suit is an admission within
> the meaning of s. 17 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and may be proved
> against him in other litigations. The High Court also relied on the English
> law of evidence. In Phipson on Evidence, 10th Edn., Art. 741, the English
> law is thus summarised:
> "Pleadings, although admissible in other actions, to show the institution of
> the suit and the nature of the case put forward, are regarded merely as the
> suggestion of counsel, and are not receivable against a party as admissions,
> unless sworn, signed, or otherwise adopted by the party himself."
> 6\. Thus, even under the English law, a statement in a pleading sworn,
> signed or otherwise adopted by a party is admissible against him in other
> actions. In Marianski v. Cairns 1 Macq. 212 ., the House of Lords decided
> that an admission in a pleading signed by a party was evidence against him
> in another suit not only with regard to a different subject-matter but also
> against a different opponent. Moreover, we are not concerned with the
> technicalities of the English law. Section 17 of the Indian Evidence Act,
> 1872  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 242 of 257 makes no distinction between an
> admission made by a party in a pleading and other admissions. Under the
> Indiasn law, an admission made by a party in a plaint signed and verified by
> him may be used as evidence against him in other suits. In other suits, this
> admission cannot be regarded as conclusive, and it is open to the party to
> show that it is not true." (emphasis added)
144\. It is equally well-settled that the party cannot be allowed to approbate
or reprobate at the same time so as to take one position, when the matter is
going to his advantage and another when it is operating to his detriment and
more so, when there is a same matter either at the same level or at the
appellate stage.
145\. In the case of Dwijendra Narain Roy vs. Joges Chandra De, AIR 1924 Cal
600, The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court has succinctly held :
> "It is an elementary rule that a party litigant cannot be permitted to
> assume inconsistent positions in Court, to play fast and loose, to blow hot
> and cold, to approbate and reprobate to the detriment of his opponent. This
> wholesome doctrine, the learned Judge held, applies not only to successive
> stages of the same suit, but also to another suit than the one in which the
> position was taken up, provided the second suit grows out of the judgment in
> the first."
> (Emphasis Supplied) Applying the said principles of law to the present case,
> it is apparent that if the defendant is allowed to re-agitate, it would also
> lead to allowing the party to approbate and reprobate at the same time which
> is clearly impermissible. The plea is thus barred by way of principle of
> approbate or reprobate which is a facet of estoppels as the  CS(OS)
> No.1045/2014 Page 243 of 257 defendant had accepted the findings of the
> Division Bench and Single Judge. There are no subsequent events which have
> changed warranting re-adjudication of the matter.
146\. In view of explanation given by plaintiff coupled with the conduct of
the defendant for the last five years, an inference can easily be drawn in
favour of the plaintiff that the suit patents are prima facie valid and there
is no credible defence raised by the defendant who is guilty of infringement
of patents. The suit patents are "Standard Essential Patents" even as per the
admissions of the defendant who had been corresponding with the plaintiff for
many years. From the previous conduct of the defendant at the relevant time,
the defendant was aware about the rights of the plaintiff.
147\. From the entire gamut of the matter, it appears to the Court that the
suit patents are valid, they are corresponding patents in other countries. The
defendant has infringed the same. Unless the suit patents are declared as
invalid in revocation petitions filed by the defendant, the same cannot be
allowed to be infringed by the defendant who is also unwilling to execute a
FRAND licence.
148\. For the aforesaid reasons, the Court is of the considered opinion that
the defendant has prima facie acted in bad faith during the negotiations with
plaintiff, it has even approached various fora and has made contrary
statements in order to get monetary benefit. Illustratively:
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 244 of 257
> a) In the Counter affidavit filed by defendant in the aforesaid Writ
> Petition, it has been stated that the reason it was not disclosed to CCI was
> that the disputes in personem are of no concern to CCI which has larger
> responsibility to decide anti-competitive practices in rem.
> b) In the Written Statement filed by defendant in the present suit, it has
> been stated that "the institution of the revocation proceedings before the
> IPAB was not brought to the attention of CCI since an express clarification
> was sought from the Defendant from by the CCI as alleged by the plaintiff
> with regard to the validity of the Plaintiff's patents.
> c) In the Counter Affidavit filed by defendant in the W.P(C) 1006/2014
> (filed by plaintiff against the CCI's order dated 16th January, 2014) it has
> been admitted by defendant that it requires a license in respect of
> plaintiff's eight standard essential patents.
149\. Let me examine the matter from different angle. Had there been FRAND
agreement executed between the parties after the negotiations, the question is
whether the defendant still would have challenged the suit patents on the same
grounds by filing of revocation petitions. The answer is obviously 'No'. The
defendant did not want to give answer to this question though the defendant is
aware that the answer is 'No'. But the defendant despite of failure of
negotiations still using the same very patents by infringing the same. The
defence  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 245 of 257 raised by the defendant has thus
become week defence and all pleas and judgements referred by the defendant do
not help its case.
150\. The Court obviously agree with the finding arrived in the case of F.
Hoffmann-La Roche (supra) wherein the Division Bench of this Court has
observed that the court has to see the tenability and the credible nature of
defence while deciding the grant or non-grant of injunction. If there are
serious questions as to validity to be tried in the suit, then the interim
injunction in the case may not be granted. But the facts in the present case
are different.
In the present case, however, it is necessary to refer Kerr on Law and
Practice of Injunction, 6th Edition on page 320, wherein some principles which
may act as guiding factors for the grant of injunction in patent cases have
been discussed. The said factors are stated as follows:-
> "If one clear instance of infringement or a wrong prima facie case of
> infringement is made out and the plaintiff has not been guilty of laches,
> the court will generally grant an interlocutory injunction in following
> cases: (1) when the validity of the patent has already been established in a
> previous action, (2) when the patent is of old standing and the enjoyment
> under it has been uninterrupted (3) when the validity of the patent is not
> in issue and notwithstanding that the defendant offers to keep an account."
151\. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Telemecanique & Controls
(I) Limited vs. Schneider Electric Industries SA, 2002 (24) PTC 632 (Del) (DB)
has held as under :
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 246 of 257
> "30. It has to be appreciated that undoubtedly patent creates a statutory
> monopoly protecting the patentee against any unlicensed user of the patented
> device. Thus once a violation is established in case of a registered patent,
> subject of course, to the patent being used, it will not be permissible to
> contend that the said patentee is not entitled to an injunction. A monopoly
> of the patent is the reward of the inventor. It is also to be appreciated
> that law of the patent is slightly different from the law of copyright and
> trademark as the patent is granted only for a period of 14 years."
152\. And in case, the case of infringement is made and there is no valid
defence, normally in an action for infringement of patent, an injunction is
not to be refused. In the case of Strix Limited vs. Maharaja Appliances Ltd.,
MIPR 2010 (1) 181, it was held in para 22 and 26 :
> "22. It was contended by learned counsel for the Defendant that at an
> interlocutory stage, the Defendant should be held to have discharged its
> burden of raising a „credible challenge‟ to the validity of the Plaintiff‟s
> patent by merely pointing out the existence of the European Patent. This
> court is unable to agree. In order to raise a credible challenge to the
> validity of a patent, even at an interlocutory stage, the Defendant will
> have to place on record some acceptable scientific material, supported or
> explained by the evidence of an expert, that the Plaintiff's patent is prima
> facie vulnerable to revocation. The burden on the Defendant here is greater
> on account of the fact that there was no opposition, pre-grant or post-
> grant, to the Plaintiff's patent. In Beecham Group Ltd. v. Bristol
> Laboratories Pty Ltd. (1967-68) 118 CLR 618 and Australian Broadcasting
> Corporation v. O'Neill (2006)  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 247 of 257 229 ALR
> 457 it was held that the defendant alleging invalidity bears the onus of
> establishing that there is "a serious question" to be tried. In Hexal
> Australia Pty Ltd. v. Roche Therapeutics Inc. 66 IPR 325 it was held that
> where the validity of a patent is raised in interlocutory proceedings, "the
> onus lies on the party asserting invalidity to show that want of validity is
> a triable question."
> 26\. As regards the applicability of Section 107A of the Act, the Defendant
> has merely averred that it has written to Chinese supplier to give
> information on the patent held by it and is awaiting a reply. The Plaintiff
> cannot be made to wait indefinitely for an injunction just because the
> Defendant is awaiting information from the Chinese supplier. As long as the
> Defendant is not able to produce any information about the patent held by
> the Chinese supplier, the court will proceed on the footing that there is no
> such valid patent held by the Chinese supplier. In any event, it cannot
> delay the protection that the Plaintiff is entitled to seek on the basis of
> the patent registered validly granted to it."
153\. In view of the exclusive and statutory rights granted under Section 48
of the Act. The effect of registered patent is defined in the statute and the
same is not capable of being misunderstood. The statutory and monopoly rights
cannot be reduced to a nullity till the term of validity of the suit patents.
The plaintiff is entitled for an injunction against any party without its
consent, permission from the act of making, using, offering for sale, selling
or importing for those purposes an infringing product.
154\. The plaintiff in order to establish infringement, has filed an affidavit
of an expert, Mr. Vijay Ghate. As a result, the plaintiff has  CS(OS)
No.1045/2014 Page 248 of 257 discharged its onus. As far as the defendant is
concerned, it has not produced any technical or plausible reasons as to why
its devices (handsets, tablets, dongles etc.) do not infringe plaintiff's
patents. It is not the case of defendant that any other technology apart from
plaintiff is being employed and used in its mobile handsets/devices. The
affidavit of Mr. Vijay Ghate has been challenged on the ground that it lacks
credibility without giving any reasons whatsoever. The allegation made by
defendant is without any valid substance and without any basis. In the absence
of even an iota of proof to the contrary, plaintiff's case of infringement is
made out. The defendant has failed to provide any technical analysis or expert
affidavit in support of its aforesaid contentions.
155\. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of defendant during the course of
hearing has agreed on behalf of his client that the defendant may be agreeable
to pay the royalty on the basis of chipset price, however, the plaintiff's
counsel refuted the suggestion of the defendant's counsel. Rather the learned
Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff has informed the Court
that the defendant is paying royalty on the rates on the different devices,
which are not of the plaintiff, to the third parties.
156\. The plaintiff has already placed on record the CSIRO vs. CISCO judgment
(United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas Tyler
Division) wherein the arguments were rejected that royalty should be based on
chipset price. On 11th March, 2015, counsel has also informed the Court that
recently, in China, the Chinese  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 249 of 257
Competition Authority (National Development and Reform Commission) has
directed that in respect of Qualcomm's Standard Essential Patents for 3G, 4G
technologies, the following rates shall be payable :
> 1\. 3G Patents - 5% of the net selling price of devices;
> 2\. 4G Patents - 3.5% of the net selling price of devices. In both cases,
> royalty base will be 65% of the net selling price of the devices, instead of
> 100% of the net selling price
157\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff says that effectively if calculated on
100% net selling price of device, the following rates shall be payable qua
qualcomm SEPs in China.
1\. 3G Patents - 3.25% of the net selling price of devices;
2\. 4G Patents - 2.275% of the net selling price of devices.
158\. In view of the above, the argument that defendant to pay the royalty on
the chipset value cannot be accepted in view of plaintiff's practice of
charging Royalty on the device price is Non-Discriminatory (FRAND).
159\. The balance of convenience lies in favour of the plaintiff and against
the defendant. As regard irreparable loss and injury is concerned, in case the
FRAND agreement is not signed by the defendant or royalty is not paid, it
would have impact of other 100 licensors who are well known companies in the
world who are paying the royalty. The plaintiff would suffer irreparable loss
and injury in case the arguments of the defendant are accepted.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 250 of 257
160\. It is also pertinent to mention that in similar subject matter of
patents having the same issues, coordinate bench of this Court on 12th
November, 2014 has passed the following order in CS(OS) No.442/2013. The
relevant extract of the said order is reproduced here under :
> "I.A. 3825/2013 (STAY) & I.A. 4694/2013 (O 39 R 4 = By D-2)
> 1\. Subsequent to the last order dated, 14.10.2014, the parties have
> appeared and made submissions. Ericsson, as per the directions of the court
> and upon being asked by the court has produced 26 license agreements.
> Micromax has asked for agreements/offers by Ericsson with other Indian
> parties. After hearing submissions and perusing the rates which were
> contained therein, the court directs as follows:
> 2\. The Defendants shall pending trial of the suit, pay the following rates
> of royalty directly to the Plaintiff for sales made in India from the date
> of filing of suit till 12.11.2015 :
> i. For phones/ devices capable of GSM - 0.8% of net selling price;
> ii. For phones/ devices capable of GPRS + GSM -
> 0.8% of net selling price;
> iii. For phones/devices capable of EDGE + GPRS + GSM - 1% of net selling
> price;
> iv. WCDMA/ HSPA phones/devices, calling tablets -
> 1% of the net selling price.
> 3\. The Defendants shall pending trial in the suit, pay the following rates
> of royalty directly to the Plaintiff for sales made in India from 13.11.2015
> to 12.11.2016 :
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 251 of 257
> i. For phones/ devices capable of GSM - 0.8% of net selling price;
> ii. For phones/ devices capable of GPRS + GSM -
> 0.8% of net selling price;
> iii. For phones/devices capable of EDGE + GPRS + GSM - 1.1% of net selling
> price;
> iv. WCDMA/ HSPA phones/devices, calling tablets -
> 1.1% of the net selling price.
> 4\. The Defendants shall pending final trial in the suit, pay the following
> rates of royalty directly to the Plaintiff for sales made in India for the
> period from 13.11.2016 to 12.11.2020 :
> i. For phones/ devices capable of GSM - 0.8% of net selling price;
> ii. For phones/ devices capable of GPRS + GSM - 1% of net selling price;
> iii. For phones/devices capable of EDGE + GPRS + GSM - 1.3% of net selling
> price;
> iv. WCDMA/ HSPA phones/devices, calling tablets -
> 1.3% of the net selling price.
> (The Net Selling Price means with respect to each company product sold by
> the company or any of its affiliates the Selling Price charged by the
> company or its affiliate for such company product unless such sale has not
> been made on arms length basis in which case the net selling price will be
> the selling price which the seller would realize from an unrelated buyer in
> an arms length sale of an equivalent product in an equivalent quantity and
> at the equivalent time and place as such sale.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 252 of 257
> Selling Price shall mean the selling price charged by the company for the
> company product in the form in which it is sold whether or not assembled and
> without excluding therefrom any components or sub-assemblies thereof (gross
> price) less 3% representing a deduction which shall cover usual trade
> discounts actually allowed to unrelated buyers on a regular basis, actual
> packing costs actual costs of insurance and transportation etc.,)
> 5\. Micromax has submitted that it has negligible operations outside India
> and agrees to negotiate the FRAND global rates if and when it expands
> internationally.
> 6\. Both the parties agree that for the period prior to the filing of the
> suit, the payments, if any, by the defendant shall be as per the judgment of
> the court post-trial of the suit.
> 7\. Insofar as the deposits already made by Micromax in the court, the rates
> specified above shall be applied from the date of filing of the suit till
> the present date, for all sales made by Micromax in India. Upon applying the
> said rates, the computation of the amounts shall be submitted jointly by the
> parties. Upon receipt thereof, payments shall be made to Ericsson directly
> by way of demand draft drawn by the Registrar, Delhi high Court, subject to
> Ericsson furnishing a surety bond for the exact amount in favour of
> Micromax, to the satisfaction of the Registrar. The banking details shall be
> submitted to the Registrar by counsel for Ericsson. The remaining amount
> shall be released to Micromax.
> 8\. The Defendants shall continue to make payments to Ericsson as per the
> rates specified above on a quarterly basis for sales made after the date of
> this order. The defendant shall continue to give intimation to the plaintiff
> of the arrival of the consignments at customs and seek NOC of the Plaintiff.
> Post inspection, the Plaintiff will forthwith CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 253
> of 257 inform the Customs that it has no objection to the release of the
> consignment so that the consignment could immediately be handed over to the
> Defendants. In respect of royalty payments made by Micromax after the
> passing of this order, Ericsson undertakes to furnish surety bonds in favor
> of Micromax for the amounts received on quarterly basis with advance copies
> to Micromax.
> 9\. It is made clear that the above order is purely an interim arrangement
> and is not a determination of the FRAND rates for the Ericsson portfolio.
> The defendant shall not rely upon the above rates before the competition
> authorities or any other forums as it is not final in nature.
> 10\. The trial of the suit is expedited. It is directed that the trial in
> any event will be completed not later than 31st December, 2015. Final
> arguments will commence immediately thereafter. The parties have no
> objection to the aforesaid arrangement and shall remain bound the same."
161\. The facts in the present case are similar so as the defence, rather the
case of the plaintiff is on better footing in view of admissions made by the
defendant before various authorities. Thus, I am also not inclined to take the
different view but to take the same view which is already taken in Suit
No.442/2013 and the stay order passed in the two applications i.e. I.A.
No.3825/2013 (for stay) and I.A. No.4694/2013 (for vacation of stay order).
The aforesaid same royalty amount is fixed in the present matter also, but the
same be paid in the following manner by disposing of the present interim
application :
> i) That 50% amount of royalty in the same manner as per details mentioned in
> Suit No.442/2013 from the date of  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 254 of 257
> filing of suit till 1st March, 2015 shall be paid to the plaintiff directly
> by way of bank draft within four weeks from today. For the remaining 50%
> amount, the defendant shall furnish the bank guarantee within the same
> period with the Registrar General of this Court who would invest the said
> amount in FDR initially for a period of twelve months.
> ii) For future period, every six months the same terms would apply till the
> disposal of the suit in the same manner. The proceedings of the suit are
> expedited.
> iii) As regard the previous period i.e. prior to suit is concerned, the
> defendant shall furnish true accounts from the date of user till the date of
> suit within four weeks by filing of an undertaking that in case of decretal
> of suit, the defendant shall pay the amount for the said period as fixed by
> the Court while issuing direction at the final stage of the suit when the
> objection of defendant on limitation also would be considered as per law.
> iv) Liberty is also granted to both the parties to seek further direction or
> modification order in case of change of circumstances and subsequent events.
162\. The defendant is granted two weeks' time to file an affidavit of
compliance of directions issued at i) to iii) stating that they are agreeable
to comply the said order within four weeks, otherwise, in  CS(OS) No.1045/2014
Page 255 of 257 failure to file the said affidavit about compliance, after the
expiry of said two weeks it would be presumed that they are not interested to
use the technology of suit patents and to pay the royalty amount fixed by the
Court. Under these circumstances, the interim orders shall operate against the
defendant in the following terms:-
i) the defendant, its officers, directors, agents, distributors and customers
to be restrained during the pendency of the suit from
manufacturing/assembling, importing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
including through their and third party websites, products (telephone
instruments, mobile handsets, tablets, hand-held devices, dongles etc.),
including the models mentioned in paragraph 12 of this application and any
future or other devices or models, that include the AMR, 3G and EDGE
technology/devices/apparatus as patented by the plaintiff in suit patents IN
203034, IN 203036, IN 234157, IN 203686, 213723 (THE AMR PATENTS), IN 229632,
IN 240471 (THE 3G PATENTS) and IN 241747 (THE EDGE PATENT).
ii) Issue the directions to the Central Board of Excise and Customs to issue
appropriate instructions directing the customs authorities at every port
including airports in India not to allow the import of mobiles, handsets,
devices, tablets, etc. including the models specified in paragraph 12 of this
application, by the defendant or its agents/affiliates that are infringing the
plaintiff's registered patents.
iii) A direction is also issued directing the Commissioner of Customs, New
Custom House, Near IGI Airport, New Delhi not to allow the import of mobiles,
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
165\. It is clarified that the finding arrived by this Court are tentative in
nature and shall have no bearing when the main suit would be decided finally
after the trial.
(MANMOHAN SINGH) JUDGE MARCH 13, 2015  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 257 of 257
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of rights in eight patents registered in India
alongwith damages/rendition of accounts and delivery up etc.
2\. Alongwith the plaint the plaintiff has filed the interim application being
I.A. No.6735/2014 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC. By
this order, I propose to decide the abovementioned application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 1 of 257
3\. The facts stated in the plaint The plaintiff, M/s Telefonaktiebolaget LM
Ericsson is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden who is the mother
company of the Ericsson group, which was founded in Sweden in 1876 and it is
claimed that the plaintiff is one of the largest telecommunications companies
in the world.
The Ericsson group is active in more than 180 countries having annual sales of
USD 35 Billion (approximately) for the year 2013. The Ericsson's main trade is
to provide telecom operators with best-in- class equipment and services for
telecommunications network. The Ericsson group has invested tons of billions
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of rights in eight patents registered in India
alongwith damages/rendition of accounts and delivery up etc.
2\. Alongwith the plaint the plaintiff has filed the interim application being
I.A. No.6735/2014 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC. By
this order, I propose to decide the abovementioned application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 1 of 257
3\. The facts stated in the plaint The plaintiff, M/s Telefonaktiebolaget LM
Ericsson is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden who is the mother
company of the Ericsson group, which was founded in Sweden in 1876 and it is
claimed that the plaintiff is one of the largest telecommunications companies
in the world.
The Ericsson group is active in more than 180 countries having annual sales of
USD 35 Billion (approximately) for the year 2013. The Ericsson's main trade is
to provide telecom operators with best-in- class equipment and services for
telecommunications network. The Ericsson group has invested tons of billions
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of rights in eight patents registered in India
alongwith damages/rendition of accounts and delivery up etc.
2\. Alongwith the plaint the plaintiff has filed the interim application being
I.A. No.6735/2014 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC. By
this order, I propose to decide the abovementioned application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 1 of 257
3\. The facts stated in the plaint The plaintiff, M/s Telefonaktiebolaget LM
Ericsson is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden who is the mother
company of the Ericsson group, which was founded in Sweden in 1876 and it is
claimed that the plaintiff is one of the largest telecommunications companies
in the world.
The Ericsson group is active in more than 180 countries having annual sales of
USD 35 Billion (approximately) for the year 2013. The Ericsson's main trade is
to provide telecom operators with best-in- class equipment and services for
telecommunications network. The Ericsson group has invested tons of billions
of US dollars in the past decade on telecommunications research and
development. In 2013 alone, the Ericsson group invested approximately USD 5
Billion on R&D.
The plaintiff's portfolio comprises of mobile and fixed network
infrastructure, telecom services, software, broadband and multimedia solutions
for operators, enterprises and the media industry. In the year 2012, the
plaintiff received awards for "Top Wireless Infrastructure Company" at the
prestigious CyberMedia ICT Business Awards, "Largest Telecom Equipment
Manufacturer" from CMAI, "Innovative Network Management Solutions" and
"Innovative Vendor Telecom Product" at the Aegis Graham Bell awards.
In the year 2013, the plaintiff won the "Challengers Award-large business" at
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
                                      Mr.Subhajit Banerji, Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of rights in eight patents registered in India
alongwith damages/rendition of accounts and delivery up etc.
2\. Alongwith the plaint the plaintiff has filed the interim application being
I.A. No.6735/2014 under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC. By
this order, I propose to decide the abovementioned application.
CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page 1 of 257
3\. The facts stated in the plaint The plaintiff, M/s Telefonaktiebolaget LM
Ericsson is a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden who is the mother
company of the Ericsson group, which was founded in Sweden in 1876 and it is
claimed that the plaintiff is one of the largest telecommunications companies
in the world.
The Ericsson group is active in more than 180 countries having annual sales of
USD 35 Billion (approximately) for the year 2013. The Ericsson's main trade is
to provide telecom operators with best-in- class equipment and services for
telecommunications network. The Ericsson group has invested tons of billions
of US dollars in the past decade on telecommunications research and
development. In 2013 alone, the Ericsson group invested approximately USD 5
Billion on R&D.
The plaintiff's portfolio comprises of mobile and fixed network
infrastructure, telecom services, software, broadband and multimedia solutions
for operators, enterprises and the media industry. In the year 2012, the
plaintiff received awards for "Top Wireless Infrastructure Company" at the
prestigious CyberMedia ICT Business Awards, "Largest Telecom Equipment
Manufacturer" from CMAI, "Innovative Network Management Solutions" and
"Innovative Vendor Telecom Product" at the Aegis Graham Bell awards.
In the year 2013, the plaintiff won the "Challengers Award-large business" at
handsets, devices, tablets etc. including the models  CS(OS) No.1045/2014 Page
256 of 257 specified in paragraph 12 of this application, by the defendant or
its agents/affiliates that are infringing in nature of the plaintiff's
registered patents.
iv) The defendant to file an affidavit of a director or other person, on
behalf of the defendant duly authorized by a specific resolution of its Board
of Directors, disclosing the following information :
> a) Quantum of devices (handsets, tablets etc.) sold by it in India till date
> that are AMR, EDGE and 3G compliant thereby rendering them infringing in
> nature;
> b) Revenue earned from the sale of mobile devices (handsets, tablets etc.)
> till date.
163\. The application is disposed of with these directions/orders.
CS(OS) No.1045/ 2014
164\. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 13th April, 2015 for
admission/denial of documents.
