Central Government Act
The Indian Stamp Act, 1899
THE INDIAN STAMP ACT, 1899  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—
(1) This Act may be called the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.
1 [(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir:
Provided that it shall not apply to 2 [the territories which, immediately
before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in Part B States] (excluding the
State of Jammu and Kashmir) except to the extent to which the provisions of
this Act relate to rates of stamp-duty in respect of the documents specified
in entry 91 of List I in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.]
(3) It shall come into force on the first day of July, 1899.
2 Definitions. —In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the
subject or context,—
(1) “Banker” includes a bank and any person acting as a banker;
(2) “Bill of exchange” means a bill of exchange as defined by the Negotiable
Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881), and includes also a hundi, and any other
document entitling or purporting to entitle any person, whether named therein
or not, to payment by any other person of, or to draw upon any other person
for, any sum of money;
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
for, any sum of money;
(3) “Bill of exchange payable on demand” includes—
(a) an order for the payment of any sum of money by a bill of exchange or
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory
note in satisfaction of any sum of money, or for the payment of any sum of
money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available, or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen;
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly, or at any
other stated period; and
(c) a letter of credit, that is to say, any instrument by which one person
authorizes another to give credit to the person in whose favour it is drawn;
(4) “Bill of lading” includes a “through bill lading”, but does not include a
mate's receipt;
(5) “Bond” includes—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another,
on condition that the obligation shall be void if a specified act is
performed, or is not performed, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer,
whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; and
(c) any instrument so attested, whereby a person obliges himself to deliver
grain or other agricultural produce to another;
(6) “Chargeable” means, as applied to an instrument executed or first executed
after the commencement of this Act, chargeable under this Act, and, as applied
to any other instrument, chargeable under the law in force in 3 [India] when
such instrument was executed or, where several persons executed the instrument
at different times, first executed;
(7) “Cheque” means a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker and not
expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand; 4 [***]
(9) “Collector”—
(a) means, within the limits of the towns of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, the
Collector of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, respectively, and, without those
limits, the Collector of a district, and
(b) includes a Deputy Commissioner and any officer whom 5 [the 6 [State
Government]] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this
behalf;
(10) “Conveyance” includes a conveyance on sale and every instrument by which
property, whether movable or immovable, is transferred inter vivos and which
is not otherwise specifically provided for by Schedule I;
(11) “Duly stamped”, as applied to an instrument, means that the instrument
bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount and
that such stamp has been affixed or used in accordance with law for time being
in force in 3 [India];
(12) “Executed” and “execution”, used with reference to instruments, mean
“signed” and “signature”; 7 [***]
(13) “Impressed stamp” includes—
(a) labels affixed and impressed by the proper officer, and
(b) stamps embossed or engraved on stamped paper;
8 [(13A) “ India ” means the territory of India excluding the State of Jammu
and Kashmir ;]
(14) “Instrument” includes every document by which any right or liability is,
or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or
record;
(15) “Instrument of partition” means any instrument whereby co-owners of any
property divide or agree to divide such property in severalty, and includes
also a final order for effecting a partition passed by any revenue-authority
or any Civil Court and an award by an arbitrator directing a partition;
(16) “Lease” means a lease of immovable property, and includes also—
(a) a patta;
(b) a Kabuliyat or other undertaking in writing, not being a counterpart of a
lease, to cultivate, occupy, or pay or deliver rent for, immovable property;
(c) any instrument by which tolls of any description are let;
(d) any writing on an application for a lease intended to signify that the
application is granted;
9 [(16A) “Marketable security” means a security of such a description as to be
capable of being sold in any stock market in 10 [ India ] or in the United
Kingdom ;]
(17) “Mortgage-deed” includes every instrument whereby, for the purpose of
securing money advanced, or to be advanced, by way of loan, or an existing or
future debt, or the performance of an engagement, one person transfers, or
creates, to, or in favour of, another, a right over or in respect of specified
property;
(18) “Paper” includes vellum, parchment or any other material on which an
instrument may be written;
(19) “Policy of insurance” includes—
(a) any instrument by which one person, in consideration of a premium, engages
to indemnify another against loss, damage or liability arising from an unknown
or contingent event;
(b) a life-policy, and any policy insuring any person against accident or
sickness, and any other personal insurance; 11 [***]
12 [***]
13 [(19A) “Policy of group insurance” means any instrument covering not less
than fifty or such smaller number as the Central Government may approve,
either generally or with reference to any particular case, by which an
insurer, in consideration of a premium paid by an employer or by an employer
and his employees jointly, engages to cover, with or without medical
examination and for the sole benefit of persons other than the employer, the
lives of all the employees or of any class of them, determined by conditions
pertaining to the employment, for amounts of insurance based upon a plan which
precludes individual selection;]
(20) “Policy of sea-insurance” or “sea-policy”—
(a) means any insurance made upon any ship or vessel (whether for marine or
inland navigation), or upon the machinery, tackle or furniture of any ship or
vessel, or upon any goods, merchandise or property of any description whatever
on board of any ship or vessel, or upon the freight of, or any other interest
which may be lawfully insured in, or relating to, any ship or vessel, and
(b) includes any insurance of goods, merchandise or property for any transit
which includes, not only a sea risk within the meaning of clause (a), but also
any other risk incidental to the transit insured from the commencement of the
transit to the ultimate destination covered by the insurance;
Where any person, in consideration of any sum of money paid or to be paid for
additional freight or otherwise, agrees to take upon himself any risk
attending goods, merchandise or property of any description whatever while on
board of any ship or vessel, or engages to indemnify the owner of any such
goods, merchandise or property form any risk, loss or damage, such agreement
or engagement shall be deemed to be a contract for sea-insurance;
(21) “Power-of-attorney” includes any instrument (not chargeable with a fee
under the law relating to court-fees for the time being in force) empowering a
specified person to act for and in the name of the person executing it;
(22) “Promissory note” means a promissory note as defined by the Negotiable
Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881); It also includes a note promising the
payment of any sum of money out of any particular fund which may or may not be
available, or upon any condition or contingency which may or may not be
performed or happen;
(23) “Receipt” includes any note, memorandum or writing—
(a) whereby any money, or any bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note is
acknowledged to have been received, or
(b) whereby any other movable property is acknowledged to have been received
in satisfaction of a debt, or
(c) whereby any debt or demand, or any part of a debt or demand, is
acknowledged to have been satisfied or discharged, or
(d) which signifies or imports any such acknowledgment,
and whether the same is or is not signed with the name of any person; 14 [***]
(24) “Settlement” means any non-testamentary disposition, in writing, of
movable or immovable property made—
(a) in consideration of marriage,
(b) for the purpose of distributing property of the settler among his family
or those for whom he desires to provide, or for the purpose of providing for
some person dependent on him, or
(c) for any religious or charitable purpose;
and includes an agreement in writing to make such a disposition 15 [and,
where, any such disposition has not been made in writing, any instrument
recording, whether by way of declaration of trust or otherwise, the terms of
any such disposition]; 16 [***]
17 [(25) “Soldier” includes any person below the rank of non-commissioned
officer who is enrolled under the Indian Army Act, 1911 (8 of 1911) 18 ;]
19 [(26) “Stamp” means any mark, seal or endorsement by any agency or person
duly authorised by the State Government, and includes an adhesive or impressed
stamp, for the purpose of duty chargeable under this Act.]
3. Instruments chargeable with duty.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore, respectively, that is to say—
(a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which, not having been
previously executed by any person, is executed in 20 [India] on or after the
first day of July, 1899;
(b) every bill of exchange 21 [payable otherwise than on demand] 22 [***] or
promissory note drawn or made out of 20 [India] on or after that day and
accepted or paid, or presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed,
transferred or otherwise negotiated, in 20 [India]; and
(c) every instrument (other than a bill exchange 22 [***] or promissory note)
mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any
person, is executed out of 20 [India] on or after that day relates to any
property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in 20 [India]
and is received in 20 [India]: Provided that no duty shall be chargeable in
respect of—
(1) any instrument executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the
Government in cases where, but for this exemption, the Government would be
liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such instrument;
(2) any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either
absolutely or by way of mortgage or otherwise, of any ship or vessel, or any
part, interest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel, registered
under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, or under Act 19 of 1938, or the Indian
Registration of Ships Act, 1841 (10 of 1841) as amended by subsequent Acts.
23 [(3) any instrument executed, by, or, on behalf of, or, in favour of, the
Developer, or Unit or in connection with the carrying out of purposes of the
Special Economic Zone. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the
expressions “Developer”, “Special Economic Zone” and “Unit” shall have
meanings respectively assigned to them in clause (g), (za) and (zc) of section
2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005.]
24 [3A. Instruments chargeable with additional duty.—[Rep. by the Refugee
Relief Taxes (Abolition) Act, 1973 (13 of 1973), sec. 2 (w.e.f. 1-4-1973).]]
4. Several instruments used in single transaction of sale, mortgage or settlement.—
(1) Where, in the case of any sale, mortgage or settlement, several
instruments are employed for completing the transaction, the principal
instrument only shall be chargeable with the duty prescribed in Schedule I,
for the conveyance, mortgage or settlement, and each of the other instruments
shall be chargeable with a duty of one rupee instead of the duty (if any)
prescribed for it in that Schedule.
(2) The parties may determine for themselves which of the instrument so
employed shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to be the
principal instrument: Provided that the duty chargeable on the instrument so
determined shall be the highest duty which would be chargeable in respect of
any of the said instruments employed.
5. Instruments relating to several distinct matters.—Any instrument comprising or relating to several distinct matters shall be chargeable with the aggregate amount of the duties with which separate instruments, each comprising or relating to one of such matters, would be chargeable under this Act.
6. Instruments coming within several descriptions in Schedule I.—Subject to the provisions of the last preceding section, an instrument so framed as to come within two or more of the descriptions in Schedule I, shall, where the duties chargeable thereunder are different, be chargeable only with the highest of such duties: Provided that nothing in this Act contained shall render chargeable with duty exceeding one rupee a counterpart or duplicate of any instrument chargeable with duty and in respect of which the proper duty has been paid.
7. Policies of sea-insurance.— 25 [***]
(4) Where any sea-insurance is made for or upon a voyage and also for time, or
to extend to or cover any time beyond thirty days after the ship shall have
arrived at her destination and been there moored at anchor, the policy shall
be charged with duty as a policy for or upon a voyage, and also with duty as a
policy for time.
8. Bonds, debentures or other securities issued on loans under Act 11 of 1879.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any local authority
raising a loan under the provisions of the Local Authorities Loan Act, 1879,
or of any other law for the time being in force, by the issue of bonds,
debentures or other securities, shall, in respect of such loan, be chargeable
with a duty of 26 [one per centum] on the total amount of the bonds,
debentures or other securities issued by it, and such bonds, debentures or
other securities need not be stamped and shall not be chargeable with any
further duty on renewal, consolidation, sub-division or otherwise.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) exempting certain bonds, debentures or
other securities from being stamped and from being chargeable with certain
further duty shall apply to the bonds, debentures or other securities of all
outstanding loans of the kind mentioned therein, and all such bonds,
debentures or other securities shall be valid, whether the same are stamped or
not: Provided that nothing herein contained shall exempt the local authority
which has issued such bonds, debentures or other securities from the duty
chargeable in respect thereof prior to the twenty-sixth day of March, 1897,
when such duty has not already been paid or remitted by order issued by the 27
[Central Government].
(3) In the case of wilful neglect to pay the duty required by this section,
the local authority shall be liable to forfeit to the Government a sum equal
to ten per centum upon the amount of duty payable, and a like penalty for
every month after the first month during which the neglect continues.
28 [ 8A Securities dealt in depository not liable to stamp duty.
—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time
being in force,—
(a) an issuer, by the issue of securities to one or more depositories shall,
in respect of such issue, be chargeable with duty on the total amount of
security issued by it and such securities need not be stamped;
(b) where an issuer issues certificate of security under sub-section (3) of
section 14 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), on such certificate
duty shall be payable as is payable on the issue of duplicate certificate
under this Act;
(c) the transfer of—
(i) registered ownership of securities from a person to a depository or from a
depository to a beneficial owner;
(ii) beneficial ownership of securities, dealt with by a depository;
(iii) beneficial ownership of units, such units being units of a Mutual Fund
including units of the Unit Trust of India established under sub-section (1)
of section 3 of the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963), dealt with by
a depository, shall not be liable to duty under this Act or any other law for
the time being in force.
Explanation 1.— For the purposes of this section, the expressions “beneficial
owner”, “depository” and “issuer”, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in clauses
(a) , (e) and (f) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act,
1996 (22 of 1996). Explanation 2 .—For the purposes of this section, the
expression "securities" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of
section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956).]
29 [8B. Corporatisation and demutualisation schemes and related instruments
not liable to duty.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any
other law for the time being in force,—
(a) a scheme for corporatisation or demutualisation, or both of a recognised
stock exchange; or
(b) any instrument, including an instrument of, or relating to, transfer of
any property, business, asset whether movable or immovable, contract, right,
liability and obligation, for the purpose of, or in connection with, the
corporatisation or demutualisation, or both of a recognised stock exchange
pursuant to a scheme, as approved by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India under sub-section (2) of section 4B of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956, shall not be liable to duty under this Act or any
other law for the time being in force. Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section,—
(a) the expressions "corporatisation", "demutualisation" and "scheme" shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (aa), (ab) and (ga)
of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;
(b) "Securities and Exchange Board of India" means the Securities and Exchange
Board of India established under section 3 of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992.]
[8C. Negotiable warehouse receipts not liable to stamp duty.—Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, negotiable warehouse receipts shall not be
liable to stamp duty].
9. Power to reduce, remit or compound duties.— 30 [
(1) ] 31 [The 32 [***] Government] may, by rule or order published in the
Official Gazette,—
(a) reduce or remit*, whether prospectively or retrospectively, in the whole
or any part of 33 [the territories under its administration], the duties with
which any instruments or any particular class of instruments, or any of the
instruments belonging to such class, or any instruments when executed by or in
favour of any particular class of persons or by or in favour of any members of
such class, are chargeable, and
(b) provide for the composition or consolidation of duties 34 [of policies of
insurance and] in the case of issues by any incorporated company or other body
corporate 35 [or of transfers (where there is a single transferee, whether
incorporated or not)] of debentures, bonds or other marketable securities.
36 [(2) In this section, the expression “the Government” means,—
(a) in relation to stamp-duty in respect of bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of insurance,
transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts, and in relation to any
other stamp-duty chargeable under this Act and falling within entry 96 of List
I in the 37 [Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, except the subject matters
referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)];
(b) save as aforesaid, the State Government.]
10. Duties how to be paid.—(l) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all duties with which any instruments are chargeable shall be paid, and such payment shall be indicated on such instruments by means of stamps—
(a) according to the provisions herein contained; or
(b) when no such provision is applicable thereto, as the 38 [State Government]
may by rule direct.
(2) The rules made under sub-section (1) may, among other matters, regulate,—
(a) in the case of each kind of instrument — the description of stamps which
may be used;
(b) in the case of instruments stamped with impressed stamps— the number of
stamps which may be used;
(c) in the case of bills of exchange or promissory notes 39 [***] the size of
the paper on which they are written.
11. Use of adhesive stamps.—The following instruments may be stamped with adhesive stamps, namely:—
(a) instruments chargeable 40 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise],
except parts of bills of exchange payable otherwise than on demand and drawn
in sets;
(b) bills of exchange 41 [***] and promissory notes drawn or made out of 42
[India];
(c) entry as an advocate, vakil or attorney on the roll of a High Court;
(d) notarial acts; and
(e) transfers by endorsement of shares in any incorporated company or other
body corporate.
12. Cancellation of adhesive stamps.—(l)
(a) Whoever affixes any adhesive stamp to any instrument chargeable with duty
which has been executed by any person shall, when affixing such stamp, cancel
the same so that it cannot be used again; and
(b) Whoever executes any instrument on any paper bearing an adhesive stamp
shall, at the time of execution, unless such stamp has been already cancelled
in manner aforesaid, cancel the same so that it cannot be used again.
(2) Any instrument bearing an adhesive stamp which has not been cancelled so
that it cannot be used again, shall so far as such stamp is concerned, be
deemed to be unstamped.
(3) The person required by sub-section (1) to cancel an adhesive stamp may
cancel it by writing on or across the stamp his name or initials or the name
or initials of his firm with the true date of his so writing, or in any other
effectual manner.
13. Instruments stamped with impressed stamps how to be written.—Every instrument written upon paper stamped with an impressed stamp shall be written in such manner that the stamp may appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used for or applied to any other instrument.
14. Only one instrument to be on same stamp.—No second instrument chargeable with duty shall be written upon a piece of stamped paper upon which an instrument chargeable with duty has already been written: Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent any endorsement which is duly stamped or is not chargeable with duty being made upon any instrument for the purpose of transferring any right created or evidenced thereby, or of acknowledging the receipt of any money or goods the payment or delivery of which is secured thereby.
15. Instrument written contrary to section 13 or 14 deemed unstamped.—Every instrument written in contravention of section 13 or section 14 shall be deemed to be unstamped.
16. Denoting duty.—Where the duty with which an instrument is chargeable, or its exemption from duty, depends in any manner upon the duty actually paid in respect of both the instruments, be denoted upon such first mentioned instrument by application is made in writing to the Collector for that purpose, and on production of both the instruments, be denoted upon such first mentioned instrument by endorsement under the hand of the Collector or in such other manner (if any) as the 43 [State Government] may by rule prescribe.
17. Instruments executed in India.—All instrument chargeable with duty and executed by any person in 44 [India] shall be stamped before or at the time of execution.
18. Instruments other than bills and notes executed out of India.—
(1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out of 45 [India] and
not being a bill of exchange 46 [***] or promissory note, may be stamped
within three months after it has been first received in 45 [India].
(2) Where any such instrument cannot, with reference to the description of
stamp prescribed therefor, be duly stamped by a private person, it may be
taken within the said period of three months to the Collector, who shall stamp
the same, in such manner as the 47 [State Government] may by rule prescribe,
with a stamp of such value as the person so taking such instrument may require
and pay for.
19. Bills and notes drawn out of India.—The first holder in 48 [India] of any bill of exchange 49 [payable otherwise than on demand], 50 [***] or promissory note drawn or made out of 48 [India] shall, before he presents the same for acceptance or payment, or endorses, transfers or otherwise negotiates the same in 48 [India], affix thereto the proper stamp and cancel the same: Provided that,—
(a) if, at the time any such bill of exchange 50 [***] or note comes into the
hands of any holder thereof in 48 [India], the proper adhesive stamp is
affixed thereto and cancelled in manner prescribed by section 12 and such
holder has no reason to believe that such stamp was affixed or cancelled
otherwise than by the person and at the time required by this Act, such stamp
shall, so far as relates to such holder, by deemed to have been duly affixed
and cancelled;
(b) nothing contained in this proviso shall relieve any person from any
penalty incurred by him for omitting to affix or cancel a stamp.
20. Conversion of amount expressed in foreign currencies.—
(1) Where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of any
money expressed in any currency other than that of 51 [India] such duty shall
be calculated on the value of such money in the currency of 51 [India]
according to the current rate of exchange on the day of the date of the
instrument.
(2) The 52 [Central Government] may, from time to time, by notification in the
Official Gazette, prescribe a rate of exchange for the conversion of British
or any foreign currency into the currency of 51 [India] for the purposes of
calculating stamp-duty, and such rate shall be deemed to be the current rate
for the purposes of sub-section (1).
21. Stock and marketable securities how to be valued.—Where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of any stock or of any marketable or other security, such duty shall be calculated on the value of such stock or security according to the average price or the value thereof on the day of the date of the instrument.
22. Effect of statement of rate of exchange or average price.—Where an instrument contains a statement of current rate of exchange, or average price, as the case may require, and is stamped in accordance with such statement, it shall, so far as regards they subject-matter of such statement, be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be duly stamped.
23. Instruments reserving interest.—Where interest is expressly made payable by the terms of an instrument, such instrument shall not be chargeable with duty higher than that with which it would have been chargeable had not mention of interest been made therein.
[23A. Certain instruments connected with mortgages of marketable securities to
be chargeable as agreements.—
(1) Where an instrument (not being a promissory note or bill of exchange)—
(a) is given upon the occasion of the deposit of any marketable security by
way of security for money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan, or for an
existing or future debt, or
(b) makes redeemable or qualifies a duly stamped transfer, intended as a
security, of any marketable security, it shall be chargeable with duty as if
it were an agreement or memorandum of an agreement chargeable with duty under
53 [Article No. 5(c)] of Schedule I.
(2) A release or discharge of any such instrument shall only be chargeable
with the like duty.]
24. How transfer in consideration of debt, or subject to future payment, etc., to be charged.—Where any property is transferred to any person in consideration, wholly or in part, of any debt due to him, or subject either certainly or contingently to the payment or transfer of any money or stock, whether being or constituting a charge or incumbrance upon the property or not, such debt, money or stock is to be deemed the whole or part, as the case may be, of the consideration in respect whereof the transfer is chargeable with ad valorem duty: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to any such certificate of sale as is mentioned in Article No. 18 of Schedule I. Explanation.—In the case of a sale of property subject to a mortgage or other incumbrance, any unpaid mortgage money or money charged, together with the interest (if any) due on the same, small be deemed to be part of the consideration for the sale: Provided that, where property, subject to a mortgage is transferred to the mortgagee, he shall be entitled to deduct from the duty payable on the transfer the amount of any duty already paid in respect of the mortgage. Illustrations
(1) A owes B Rs. 1,000. A sells a property to B, the consideration being Rs.
500 and the release of the previous debt of Rs. 1,000 Stamp-duty is payable on
Rs. 1,500.
(2) A sells property to B for Rs. 500 which is subject to a mortgage to C for
Rs. 1,000 and unpaid interest Rs. 200. Stamp-duty is payable on Rs. 1,700.
(3) A mortgages a house of the value of Rs. 10,000 to B for Rs. 5,000. B
afterwards buys the house from A. Stamp-duty is payable on Rs. 10,000 less the
amount of stamp-duty already paid for the mortgage.
25. Valuation in case of annuity, etc.—Where an instrument is executed to secure the payment of an annuity or other sum payable periodically, or where the consideration for a conveyance is an annuity or other sum payable periodically, the amount secured by such instrument or the consideration for such conveyance, as the case may be, shall, for the purposes of this Act be deemed to be—
(a) where the sum is payable for a definite period so that the total amount to
be paid can be previously ascertained—such total amount;
(b) where the sum is payable in perpetuity or for an indefinite time not
terminable with any life in being at the date of such instrument or
conveyance—the total amount which, according to the terms of such instrument
or conveyance, will or may be payable during the period to twenty years
calculated from the date on which the first payment becomes due; and
(c) where the sum is payable for an indefinite time terminable with any life
in being at the date of such instrument or conveyance—the maximum amount which
will or may be payable as aforesaid during the period of twelve years
calculated from the date on which the first payment becomes due.
26. Stamp where value of subject-matter is indeterminate.—Where the amount or value of the subject-matter of any instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty cannot be, or (in the case of an instrument executed before the commencement of this Act) could not have been, ascertained at the date of its execution or first execution, nothing shall be claimable under such instrument more than the highest amount of value for which if stated in an instrument of the same description, the stamp actually used would, at the date of such execution, have been sufficient: 54 [Provided that, in the case of the lease of a mine in which royalty or a share of the produce is received as the rent or part of the rent, it shall be sufficient to have estimated such royalty or the value of such share, for the purpose of stamp-duty,—
(a) when the lease has been granted by or only behalf of 55 [the Government],
at such amount or value as the Collector may, having regard to all the
circumstances of the case, have estimated as likely to be payable by way of
royalty or share to the Government under the lease, or
(b) when the lease has been granted by any other person, at twenty thousand
rupees a year, and the whole amount of such royalty or share, whatever it may
be, shall be claimable under such lease:] Provided also that where proceedings
have been taken in respect of an instrument under section 31 or 41, the amount
certified by the Collector shall be deemed to be the stamp actually used at
the date of execution.
27. Facts affecting duty to be set forth in instrument.—The consideration (if any) and all other facts and circumstances affecting the chargeability of any instrument with duty, or the amount of the duty with which it is chargeable, shall be fully and truly set forth therein.
28. Direction as to duty in case of certain conveyances.—
(1) when any property has been contracted to be sold for one consideration for
the whole, and is conveyed to the purchaser in separate parts by different
instruments, the consideration shall be apportioned in such manner as the
parties think fit, provided that a distinct consideration for each separate
part is set forth in the conveyance relating thereto, and such conveyance
shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of such distinct
consideration.
(2) Where property contracted to be purchased for one consideration for the
whole, by two or more persons jointly, or by any person for himself and
others, or wholly for others, is conveyed in parts by separate instruments to
the persons by or for whom the same was purchased, for distinct parts of the
consideration, the conveyance of each separate part shall be chargeable with
ad valorem duty in respect of the distinct part of the consideration therein
specified.
(3) Where a person, having contracted for the purchase of any property but not
having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts to sell the same to any other
person and the property is in consequence conveyed immediately to the sub-
purchaser, the conveyance shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect
of the consideration for the sale by the original purchaser to the sub-
purchaser.
(4) Where a person, having contracted for the purchase of any property but not
having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts to sell the whole, or any part
thereof, to any other person or persons and the property is in consequence
conveyed by the original seller to different persons in parts, the conveyance
of each part sold to a sub-purchaser shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty
in respect only of the consideration paid by such sub-purchaser, without
regard to the amount or value of the original consideration, and the
conveyance of the residue (if any) of such property to the original purchaser
shall be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect only of the excess of the
original consideration over the aggregate of the considerations paid by the
sub-purchasers: Provided that the duty on such last-mentioned conveyance shall
in no case be less than one rupee.
(5) Where a sub-purchaser takes an actual conveyance of the interest of the
person immediately selling to him, which is chargeable with ad valorem duty in
respect of the consideration paid by him and is duly stamped accordingly, any
conveyance to be afterward made to him of the same property by the original
seller shall be chargeable with a duty equal to that which would be chargeable
on a conveyance for the consideration obtained by such original seller, or,
where such duty would exceed five rupees, with a duty of five rupees.
29. Duties by whom payable.—In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, the expense of providing the proper stamp shall be borne—
(a) in the case of any instrument described in any of the following Articles
of Schedule I, namely:—
(No) 2\. (Administration Bonds),
56 [(No) 6\. (Agreement relating to deposit of Title deeds, Pawn or Pledge)],
(No) 13\. (Bill of Exchange),
(No) 15\. (Bonds),
(No) 16\. (Bottomry Bond),
(No) 26\. (Customs Bond),
(No) 27\. (Debenture),
(No) 32\. (Further Charge),
(No) 34\. (Indemnity-Bond),
(No) 40\. (Mortgage-deed),
(No) 49\. (Promissory-note),
(No) 55\. (Release),
(No) 56.(Respondentia Bond),
(No) 57\. (Security Bond or Mortgage-deed),
(No) 58\. (Settlement),
(No) 62(a). (Transfer of shares in an incorporated company or other body
corporate),
(No) 62(b). (Transfer of debentures, being marketable securities, whether the
debenture is liable to duty or not, except debentures provided for by section
8),
(No) 62(c). (Transfer of any interest secured by a bond, mortgage-deed or
policy of insurance); by the person drawing, making or executing such
instrument;
57 [(b) in the case of a policy of insurance other than fire-insurance—by the
person effecting the insurance;
(bb) in the case of a policy of fire-insurance—by the person issuing the
policy;]
(c) in the case of a conveyance (including a reconveyance of mortgaged
property) by the grantee; in the case of a lease or agreement to lease—by the
lessee or intended lessee;
(d) in the case of a counterpart of a lease—by the lessor;
(e) in the case of an instrument of exchange—by the parties in equal shares;
(f) in the case of a certificate of sale—by the purchaser of the property to
which such certificate relates; and
(g) in the case of an instrument of partition—by the parties thereto in
proportion to their respective shares in the whole property partitioned, or,
when the partition is made in execution of an order passed by a Revenue
authority or Civil Court or arbitrator, in such proportion as such authority,
Court or arbitrator directs.
30. Obligation to give receipt in certain cases.—Any person receiving any money; exceeding twenty rupees in amount, or any bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note for an amount exceeding twenty rupees, or receiving in satisfaction or part satisfaction of a debt any movable property exceeding twenty rupees in value, shall, on demand by the person paying or delivering such money, bill, cheque, note or property, give a duly stamped receipt for the same. 58 [Any person receiving or taking credit for any premium or consideration for any renewal of any contract of fire-insurance, shall, within one month after receiving or taking credit for such premium or consideration, give a duly stamped receipt for the same.]
31. Adjudication as to proper stamp.—
(1) When any instrument, whether executed or not and whether previously
stamped or not, is brought to the Collector, and the person bringing it
applies to have the opinion of that officer as to the duty (if any) with which
it is chargeable, and pays a fee of such amount (not exceeding five rupees and
not less than 59 [fifty naye paise]) as the Collector may in each case direct,
the Collector shall determine the duty (if any) with which, in his judgment
the instrument is chargeable.
(2) For this purpose the Collector may require to be furnished with an
abstract of the instrument, and also with such affidavit or other evidence as
he may deem necessary to prove that all the facts and circumstances affecting
the chargeability of the instrument with duty, or the amount of the duty with
which it is chargeable, are fully and truly set forth therein, and may refuse
to proceed upon any such application until such abstract and evidence have
been furnished accordingly: Provided that—
(a) no evidence furnished in pursuance of this section shall be used against
any person in any civil proceeding, except in an enquiry as to the duty with
which the instrument to which it relates is chargeable; and
(b) every person by whom any such evidence is furnished, shall, on payment of
the full duty with which the instrument to which it relates, is chargeable, be
relieved from any penalty which he may have incurred under this Act by reason
of the omission to state truly in such instrument any of the facts or
circumstances aforesaid.
32. Certificate by Collector.—
(1) When an instrument brought to the Collector under section 31 is, in his
opinion, one of a description chargeable with duty, and—
(a) the Collector determines that it is already fully stamped, or
(b) the duty determined by the Collector under section 31, or such a sum as,
with the duty already paid in respect of the instrument, is equal to the duty
so determined, has been paid, the Collector shall certify by endorsement on
such instrument that the full duty (stating the amount) with which it is
chargeable has been paid.
(2) When such instrument is, in his opinion, not chargeable with duty, the
Collector shall certify in manner aforesaid that such instrument is not so
chargeable.
(3) Any instrument upon which an endorsement has been made under this section,
shall be deemed to be duly stamped or not chargeable with duty, as the case
may be; and, if chargeable with duty, shall be receivable in evidence or
otherwise, and may be acted upon and registered as if it had been originally
duly stamped: Provided that nothing in this section shall authorise the
Collector to endorse—
(a) any instrument executed or first executed in 60 [India] and brought to him
after the expiration of one month from the date of its execution or first
execution, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument executed or first executed out of 60 [India] and brought to
him after the expiration of three months after it has been first received in
60 [India]; or
(c) any instrument chargeable 61 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise],
or any bill of exchange or promissory note, when brought to him, after the
drawing or execution thereof, on paper not duly stamped.
33. Examination and impounding of instruments.—
(1) Every person having by law or consent of parties, authority to receive
evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an officer of
police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is
produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to
him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same.
(2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so
chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in order to ascertain whether
it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in
force in 62 [India] when such instrument was executed or first executed:
Provided that—
(a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or
Judge of a Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he does not think fit so
to do, any instrument coming before him in the course of any proceeding other
than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898);
(b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty of examining and
impounding any instrument under this section may be delegated to such officer
as the Court appoints in this behalf.
(3) For the purposes of this section, in cases of doubt,—
(a) 62 [the 63 [State Government]] may determine what offices shall be deemed
to be public offices; and
(b) 62 [the 63 [State Government]] may determine who shall be deemed to be
persons in charge of public offices.
34. Special provision as to unstamped receipts.—Where any receipt chargeable 64 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise] is tendered to or produced before any officer unstamped in the course of the audit of any public account, such officer may in his discretion instead of impounding the instrument, require a duly stamped receipt to be substituted therefore.
35. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, etc.—No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered or authenticated by any such person or by any public officer, unless such instrument is duly stamped: Provided that—
(a) any such instrument 65 [shall], be admitted in evidence on payment of the
duty with which the same is chargeable, or, in the case of an instrument
insufficiently stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty, together
with a penalty of five rupees, or, when ten times the amount of the proper
duty or deficient portion thereof exceeds five rupees, of a sum equal to ten
times such duty or portion;
(b) where any person from whom a stamped receipt could have been demanded, has
given an unstamped receipt and such receipt, if stamped, would be admissible
in evidence against him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence
against him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence against him on
payment of a penalty of one rupee by the person tendering it;
(c) where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence
consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper
stamp, the contract or agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped;
(d) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in
evidence in any proceeding in a Criminal Court, other than a proceeding under
Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of
1898);
(e) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in
any Court when such instrument has been executed by or on behalf of 66 [the 67
[Government]] or where it bears the certificate of the Collector as provided
by section 32 or any other provision of this Act.
36. Admission of instrument where not to be questioned.—Where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admission shall not, except as provided in section 61, be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument has not duly stamped.
37. Admission of improperly stamped instruments.— 68 [The 69 [State Government]] may make rules providing that, where an instrument bears a stamp of sufficient amount but of improper description, it may, on payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable be certified to be duly stamped, and any instrument so certified shall then be deemed to have been duly stamped as from the date of its execution.
38. Instruments impounded, how dealt with.—
(1) Where the person impounding an instrument under section 33 has by law or
consent of parties authority to receive evidence and admits such instrument in
evidence upon payment of a penalty as provided by section 35 or of duty as
provided by section 37, he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy
of such instrument, together with a certificate in writing, stating the amount
of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send such amount to
the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint in this behalf.
(2) In every other case, the person so impounding an instrument shall send it
in original to the Collector.
39. Collector’s power to refund penalty paid under section 38, sub-section
(1) .—(1) When a copy of an instrument is sent to the Collector under section
38, sub-section (1), he may, if he thinks fit 70 [***] refund any portion of
the penalty in excess of five rupees which has been paid in respect of such
instrument.
(2) When such instrument has been impounded only because it has been written
in contravention of section 13 or section 14, the Collector may refund the
whole penalty so paid.
39. Collector’s power to refund penalty paid under section 38, sub-section
(1) .—(1) When a copy of an instrument is sent to the Collector under section
38, sub-section (1), he may, if he thinks fit 71 [***] refund any portion of
the penalty in excess of five rupees which has been paid in respect of such
instrument.
(2) When such instrument has been impounded only because it has been written
in contravention of section 13 or section 14, the Collector may refund the
whole penalty so paid.
40. Collector's power to stamp instruments impounded.—
(1) When the Collector impounds any instrument under section 33, or receives
any instrument sent to him under section 38, sub-section (2), not being an
instrument chargeable 72 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise] only or a
bill of exchange or promissory note, he shall adopt the following procedure:—
(a) if he is of opinion that such instrument is duly stamped, or is not
chargeable with duty, he shall certify by endorsement thereon that it is duly
stamped, or that it is not so chargeable, as the case may be;
(b) if he is of opinion that such instrument is chargeable with duty and is
not duly stamped, he shall require the payment of the proper duty or the
amount required to make up the same, together with a penalty of the five
rupees; or, if he thinks fit, 73 [an amount not exceeding] ten times the
amount of the proper duty or of the deficient portion thereof, whether such
amount exceeds or falls short of five rupees: Provided that, when such
instrument has been impounded only because it has been written in
contravention of section 13 or section 14, the Collector may, if he thinks
fit, remit the whole penalty prescribed by this section.
(2) Every certificate under clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be conclusive evidence of the matters stated therein.
(3) Where an instrument has been sent to the Collector under section 38, sub-
section (2), the Collector shall, when he has dealt with it as provided by the
section, return it to the impounding officer.
40. Collector's power to stamp instruments impounded.—
(1) When the Collector impounds any instrument under section 33, or receives
any instrument sent to him under section 38, sub-section (2), not being an
instrument chargeable 74 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise] only or a
bill of exchange or promissory note, he shall adopt the following procedure:—
(a) if he is of opinion that such instrument is duly stamped, or is not
chargeable with duty, he shall certify by endorsement thereon that it is duly
stamped, or that it is not so chargeable, as the case may be;
(b) if he is of opinion that such instrument is chargeable with duty and is
not duly stamped, he shall require the payment of the proper duty or the
amount required to make up the same, together with a penalty of the five
rupees; or, if he thinks fit, 75 [an amount not exceeding] ten times the
amount of the proper duty or of the deficient portion thereof, whether such
amount exceeds or falls short of five rupees: Provided that, when such
instrument has been impounded only because it has been written in
contravention of section 13 or section 14, the Collector may, if he thinks
fit, remit the whole penalty prescribed by this section.
(2) Every certificate under clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall, for the
purposes of this Act, be conclusive evidence of the matters stated therein.
(3) Where an instrument has been sent to the Collector under section 38, sub-
section (2), the Collector shall, when he has dealt with it as provided by the
section, return it to the impounding officer.
41. Instruments unduly stamped by accident.—If any instrument chargeable with duty and not duly stamped, not being an instrument chargeable 76 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise] only or a bill of exchange or promissory note, is produced by any person of his own motion before the Collector within one year from the date of its execution or first execution, and such person brings to the notice of the Collector the fact that such instrument is not duly stamped and offers to pay the Collector the amount of the proper duty, or the amount required to make up the same, and the Collector is satisfied that the omission to duly stamp such instrument has been occasioned by accident, mistake or urgent necessity, he may, instead of proceeding under sections 33 and 40, receive such amount and proceed as next hereinafter prescribed.
42. Endorsement of instruments in which duty has been paid under section 35, 40 or 41.—
(1) When the duty and penalty (if any) leviable in respect of any instrument
have been paid under section 35, section 40 or section 41, the person
admitting such instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may be,
shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty or, as the case may
be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the amount of each) have been levied
in respect thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them.
(2) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in evidence,
and may be registered and acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly
stamped, and shall be delivered on his application in this behalf to the
person from whose possession it came into the hands of the officer impounding
it, or as such person may direct: Provided that—
(a) no instrument which has been admitted in evidence upon payment of duty and
a penalty under section 35, shall be so delivered before the expiration of one
month from the date of such impounding, or if the Collector has certified that
its further detention is necessary and has not cancelled such certificate;
(b) nothing in this section shall affect the 3Code of Civil Procedure, 1882
(14 of 1882), section 144 clause 3.
43. Prosecution for offence against Stamp-law.—The taking of proceedings or the payment of a penalty under this Chapter in respect of any instrument shall not bar the prosecution of any person who appears to have committed an offence against the Stamp-law in respect of such instrument: Provided that no such prosecution shall be instituted in the case of any instrument in respect of which such a penalty has been paid, unless it appears to the Collector that the offence was committed with an intention of evading payment of the proper duty.
44. Persons paying duty or penalty may recover same in certain cases.—
(1) When any duty or penalty has been paid under section 35, section 37,
section 40 or section 41, by any person in respect of an instrument, and, by
agreement or under the provisions of section 29 or any other enactment in
force at the time such instrument was executed, some other person was bound to
bear the expense of providing the proper stamp for such instrument, the first-
mentioned person shall be entitled to recover from such other person the
amount of the duty or penalty so paid.
(2) For the purpose of such recovery any certificate granted in respect of
such instrument under this Act shall be conclusive evidence of the matters
therein certified.
(3) Such amount may, if the Court thinks fit, be included in any order as to
costs in any suit or proceeding to which such persons are parties and in which
such instrument has been tendered in evidence. If the Court does not include
the amount in such order, no further proceedings for the recovery of the
amount shall be maintainable.
45. Power to Revenue authority to refund penalty or excess duty in certain cases.—
(1) Where any penalty is paid under section 35 or section 40, the Chief
Controlling Revenue-Authority may, upon application in writing made within one
year from the date of the payment, refund such penalty wholly or in part.
(2) Where, in the opinion of the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority, stamp-
duty in excess of that which is legally chargeable has been charged and paid
under section 35 or section 40, such authority may, upon application in
writing made within three months of the order charging the same, refund the
excess.
46. Non-liability for loss of instruments sent under section 38.—
(1) If any instrument sent to the Collector under section 38, sub-section (2),
is lost, destroyed or damaged during transmission, the person sending the same
shall not be liable for such loss, destruction or damage.
(2) When any instrument is about to be so sent, the person from whose
possession it came into the hands of the person impounding the same, may
require a copy thereof to be made at the expense of such first-mentioned
person and authenticated by the person impounding such instrument.
47. Power of payer to stamp bills and promissory notes received by him unstamped.—When any bill of exchange 77 [or promissory note] chargeable 78 [with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise] is presented for payment unstamped, the person to whom it is so presented, may affix thereto the necessary adhesive stamp, and, upon cancelling the same in manner hereinbefore provided, may pay the sum payable upon such bill 79 [or note], and may charge the duty against the person who ought to have paid the same, or deduct it from the sum payable as aforesaid, and such bill 79 [or note] shall, so far as respects the duty, be deemed good and valid: Provided that nothing herein contained shall relieve any person from any penalty or proceeding to which he may be liable in relation to such bill 80 [or note].
48. Recovery of duties and penalties.—All duties, penalties and other sums required to be paid under this Chapter may be recovered by the Collector by distress and sale of the movable property of the person from whom the same are due, or by any other process for the time being in force for the recovery of arrears of land-revenue.
49. Allowance for spoiled stamps.—Subject to such rules as may be made by 81 [the 82 [State Government]] as to the evidence to be required or, the enquiry to be made, the Collector may, on application made with the period prescribed in section 50, and if he is satisfied as to the facts, make allowance for impressed stamps spoiled in the cases hereinafter mentioned, namely:—
(a) the stamp on any paper inadvertently and undesignedly spoiled, obliterated
or by error in writing or any other means rendered unfit for the purpose
intended before any instrument written thereon is executed by any person;
(b) the stamp on any document which is written out wholly or in part, but
which is not signed or executed by any party thereto;
(c) in the case of bills of exchange 83 [payable otherwise than on demand] 84
[***] or promissory notes—
(1) the stamp on 85 [any such bill of exchange] 86 [***] signed by or on
behalf of the drawer which has not been accepted or made use of in any manner
whatever or delivered out of his hands for any purpose other than by way of
tender for acceptance: Provided that the paper on which any such stamp is
impressed, does not bear any signature intended as or for the acceptance of
any bill of exchange 86 [***] to be afterwards written thereon;
(2) the stamp on any promissory note signed by or on behalf of the maker which
has not been made use of in any manner whatever or delivered out of his hands;
(3) the stamp used or intended to be used for 86 [any such bill of exchange]
87 [***] or promissory note signed by, or on behalf of, the drawer thereof,
but which from any omission or error has been spoiled or rendered useless,
although the same, being a bill of exchange 88 [***] may have been presented
for acceptance or accepted or endorsed, or, being a promissory note, may have
been delivered to the payee: Provided that another completed and duly stamped
bill of exchange 88 [***] or promissory note is produced identical in every
particular, except in the correction of such omission or error as aforesaid,
with the spoiled bill 88 [***] or note;
(d) the stamp used for an instrument executed by any party thereto which—
(1) has been afterwards found to be absolutely void in law from the beginning;
(2) has been afterwards found unfit, by reason of any error or mistake
therein, for the purpose originally intended;
(3) by reason of the death of any person by whom it is necessary that it
should be executed, without having executed the same, or of the refusal of any
such person to execute the same, cannot be completed so as to effect the
intended transaction in the form proposed;
(4) for want of the execution thereof by some material party, and his
inability or refusal to sign the same, is in fact incomplete and insufficient
for the purpose for which it was intended;
(5) by reason of the refusal of any person to act under the same, or to
advance any money intended to be thereby secured, or by the refusal or non-
acceptance of any office thereby granted, totally fails of the intended
purpose;
(6) become useless in consequence of the transaction intended to be thereby
effected being effected by some other instrument between the same parties and
bearing a stamp of not less value;
(7) is deficient in value and the transaction intended to the thereby effected
has been effected by some other instrument between the same parties and
bearing a stamp of not less value;
(8) is inadvertently and undesignedly spoiled, and in lieu whereof another
instrument made between the same parties and for the same purpose is executed
and duly stamped: Provided that, in the case of an executed instrument, no
legal proceeding has been commenced in which the instrument could or would
have been given or offered in evidence and that the instrument is given up to
be cancelled. Explanation.—The certificate of the Collector under section 32
that the full duty with which an instrument is chargeable, has been paid is an
impressed stamp within the meaning of this section.
50. Application for relief under section 49 when to be made.—The application for relief under section 49 shall be made within the following periods, that is to say—
(1) in the cases mentioned in clause (d) (5), within two months of the date of
the instrument;
(2) in the case of a stamped paper on which no instrument has been executed by
any of the parties thereto, within six months after the stamp has been
spoiled;
(3) in the case of a stamped paper in which an instrument has been executed by
any of the parties thereto, within six months after the date of the
instrument, or, if it is not dated, within six months after the execution
thereof by the person by whom it was first or alone executed: Provided that—
(a) when the spoiled instrument has been for sufficient reasons sent out of 89
[India], the application may be made within six months after it has been
received back in 89 [India];
(b) when, from unavoidable circumstances, any instrument for which another
instrument has been substituted, cannot be given up to be cancelled within the
aforesaid period, the application may be made within six-months after the date
of execution of the substituted instrument.
51. Allowance in case of printed forms no longer required by Corporations.—The Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority 90 [or the Collector if empowered by the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority in this behalf] may, without limit of time, make allowance for stamped papers used for printed forms of instruments, 91 [by any banker or] by any incorporated company or other body corporate, if for any sufficient reason such forms have ceased to be required by the said 91 [banker], company or body corporate: Provided that such authority is satisfied that the duty in respect of such stamped paper has been duly paid.
52. Allowance for misused stamps.—
(a) When any person has inadvertently used for an instrument chargeable with
duty, a stamp of a description other than that prescribed for such instrument
by the rules made under this Act, or a stamp of greater value than was
necessary, or has inadvertently used any stamp for an instrument not
chargeable with any duty; or
(b) When any stamp used for an instrument has been inadvertently rendered
useless under section 15, owing to such instrument having been written in
contravention of the provisions of section 13, the Collector may, on
application made within six months after the date of the instrument, or, if it
is not dated, within six months after the execution thereof by the person by
whom it was first or alone executed, and upon the instrument, if chargeable
with duty, being re-stamped with the proper duty, cancel and allow as spoiled
the stamp so misused or rendered useless.
53. Allowance for spoiled or misused stamps how to be made.—In any case in which allowance is made for spoiled or misused stamps, the Collector may give in lieu thereof—
(a) other stamps of the same description and value; or
(b) if required and he thinks fit, stamps of any other description to the same
amount in value; or
(c) at his discretion, the same value in money, deducting 92 [ten naye paise]
for each rupee or fraction of a rupee.
54. Allowance for stamps not required for use.—When any person is possessed of a stamp or stamp which have not been spoiled or rendered unfit or useless for the purpose intended, but for which he has no immediate use, the Collector shall repay to such person the value of such stamp or stamps in money, deducting 93 [ten naye paise] for each rupee or portion of a rupee, upon such person delivering up the same to be cancelled, and proving to the Collector’s satisfaction—
(a) that such stamp or stamps were purchased by such person with a bona fide
intention to use them; and
(b) that he has paid the full price thereof; and
(c) that they were so purchased within the period of six months next preceding
the date on which they were so delivered: Provided that, where the person is a
licensed vendor of stamps, the Collector may, if he thinks fit, make the
repayment of the sum actually paid by the vendor without any such deduction as
aforesaid.
94 [54A. Allowances for stamps in denominations of annas.—Notwithstanding
anything contained in section 54, when any person is possessed of a stamp or
stamps in any denominations other than in denominations of annas four or
multiples thereof and such stamp or stamps has or have not been spoiled, the
Collector shall repay to such person the value of such stamp or stamps in
money calculated in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 14 of the Indian Coinage Act, 1906 (3 of 1906), upon such person
delivering up, within six months from the commencement of the Indian Stamp
(Amendment) Act, 1958 (19 of 1958), such stamp or stamps to the Collector.]
95 [54B. Allowances for Refugee Relief stamps.—Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 54, when any person is possessed of stamps bearing the
inscription “Refugee Relief” (being stamps issued in pursuance of section 3A
before its omission) and such stamps have not been spoiled, the Collector
shall, upon such person delivering up, within six month, from the commencement
of the Refugee Relief Taxes (Abolition) Act, 1973 (13 of 1973), such stamps to
the Collector, refund of such person the value of such stamps in money or give
in lieu thereof other stamps of the same value: Provided that, the State
Government may, with a view to facilitating expeditious disposal of claims for
such refunds, specify, in such manner as it deems fit, any other procedure
which may also be followed for claiming such refund.]
55. Allowance on renewal of certain debentures.—When any duty stamped debenture is renewed by the issue of a new debenture in the same terms, the Collector shall, upon application made within one month, repay to the person issuing such debenture, the value of the stamp on the original or on the new debenture, whichever shall be less: Provided that the original debenture is produced before the Collector and cancelled by him in such manner as the State Government may direct. Explanation.—A debenture shall be deemed to be renewed in the same terms within the meaning of this section notwithstanding the following charges:—
(a) the issue of two or more debentures in place of one original debenture,
the total amount secured being the same;
(b) the issue of one debenture in place of two or more original debentures,
the total amount secured being the same;
(c) the substitution of the name of the holder at the time of renewal for the
name of the original holder; and
(d) the alteration of the rate of interest or the dates of payment thereof.
56. Control of, and statement of case to, Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority.—
(1) The power exercisable by a Collector under Chapter IV and Chapter V 96
[and under clause (a) of the first proviso to section 26] shall in all cases
be subject to the control of the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority.
(2) If any Collector, acting under section 31, section 40 or section 41, feels
doubts as to the amount of duty with which any instrument is chargeable, he
may draw up a statement of the case, and refer it, with his own opinion
thereon, for the decision of the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority.
(3) Such authority shall consider the case and send a copy of its decision to
the Collector who shall proceed to assess and charge the duty (if any) in
conformity with such decision.
57. Statement of case by Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority to High Court.—
(1) The Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority may state any case referred to it
under section 56, sub-section (2), or otherwise coming to its notice, and
refer such case, with its own opinion thereon,—
97 [(a) if it arises in a State to the High Court for that State;
98 [(b) if it arises in the Union territory of Delhi to the High Court of
Delhi;]
99 [(c) if it arises in the Union territory of Arunachal Pradesh or Mizoram,
to the Gauhati High Court (the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya,
Manipur and Tripura;)]
(d) if it arises in the Union territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, to
the High Court at Calcutta; 100 [***]
(e) if it arises in the Union territory of the 101 [Lakshadweep], to the High
Court of Kerala;]
102 [(ee) if it arises in the Union territory of Chandigarh, to the High Court
of Punjab and Haryana;]
103 [(f) if it arises in the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, to the
High Court of Bombay.]
(2) Every such case shall be decided by not less then three Judges of the High
Court 104 [***] to which it is referred, and in case of difference the opinion
of the majority shall prevail.
58. Power of High Court to call for further particulars as to case stated.—If the High Court [***] is not satisfied that the statements contained in the case are sufficient to enable it to determine the questions raised thereby, the Court may refer the case back to the Revenue-Authority by which it was stated, to make such additions thereto or alterations therein as the Court may direct in that behalf.
59. Procedure in disposing of case stated.—
(1) The High Court 106 [***] upon the hearing of any such case, shall decide
the questions raised thereby, and shall deliver its judgment thereon
containing the grounds on which such decision is founded.
(2) The Court shall send to the Revenue-Authority by which the case was
stated, a copy of such judgment under the seal of the Court and the signature
of the Registrar; and the Revenue-Authority shall, on receiving such copy,
dispose of the case conformably to such judgment.
60. Statement of case by other Courts to High Court.—
(1) If any Court, other than a Court mentioned in section 57, feels doubts as
to the amount of duty to be paid in respect of any instrument under proviso
(a) to section 35, the Judge may draw up a statement of the case and refer it,
with his own opinion thereon, for the decision of the High Court 107 [***] to
which, if he were the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority, he would, under
section 57, refer the same.
(2) Such Court shall deal with the case as if it had been referred under
section 57, and send a copy of its judgment under the seal of the Court and
the signature of the Registrar to the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority and
other like copy to the Judge making the reference, who shall, on receiving
such copy dispose of the case conformably to such judgment.
(3) References made under sub-section (1), when made by a Court subordinate to
a District Court, shall be made through the District Court, and, when made by
any subordinate Revenue Court, shall be made through the Court immediately
superior.
61. Revision of certain decisions of Courts regarding the sufficiency of stamps.—
(1) When any Court in the exercise of its civil or revenue jurisdiction of any
Criminal Court in any proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), makes any order admitting any
instrument in evidence as duly stamped or as not requiring a stamp, or upon
payment of duty and a penalty under section 35, the Court to which appeals lie
from, or references are made by, such first-mentioned Court may, of its own
motion or on the application of the Collector, take such order into
consideration.
(2) If such Court, after such consideration, is of opinion that such
instrument should not have been admitted in evidence without the payment of
duty and penalty under section 35, or without the payment of a higher duty and
penalty than those paid, it may record a declaration to that effect, and
determine the amount of duty with which such instrument is chargeable, and may
require any person in whose possession or power such instrument then is, to
produce the same, and may impound the same when produced.
(3) When any declaration has been recorded under sub-section (2), the Court
recording the same shall send a copy thereof to the Collector, and, where the
instrument to which it relates has been impounded or is otherwise in the
possession of such Court, shall also send him such instrument.
(4) The Collector may thereupon, notwithstanding anything contained in the
order admitting such instrument in evidence, or in any certificate granted
under section 42, or in section 43, prosecute any person for any offence
against the Stamp-law which the Collector considers him to have committed in
respect of such instrument: Provided that—
(a) no such prosecution shall be instituted where the amount (including duty
and penalty) which, according to the determination of such Court, was payable
in respect of the instrument under section 35, is paid to the Collector,
unless he thinks that the offence was committed with an intention of evading
payment of the proper duty;
(b) except for the purposes of such prosecution, no declaration made under
this section shall effect the validity of any order admitting any instrument
in evidence, or of any certificate granted under section 42.
62. Penalty for executing, etc., instrument not duty stamped.—
(1) Any person—
(a) drawing, making, issuing, endorsing or transferring, or signing otherwise
than as a witness, or presenting for acceptance or payment, or accepting,
paying or receiving payment of or in any manner negotiating, any bill of
exchange 108 [payable otherwise than on demand] 109 [***] or promissory note
without the same being duly stamped; or
(b) executing or signing otherwise than as a witness any other instrument
chargeable with duty without the same being duly stamped; or
(c) voting or attempting to vote under any proxy not duly stamped, shall for
every such offence be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees: Provided that, when any penalty has been paid in respect of any
instrument under section 35, section 40 or section 61, the amount of such
penalty shall be allowed in reduction of the fine (if any) subsequently
imposed under this section in respect of the same instrument upon the person
who paid such penalty.
(2) If a share warrant is issued without being duly stamped, the company
issuing the same, and also every person who, at the time when it is issued, is
the managing director or secretary or other principal officer of the company,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
63. Penalty for failure to cancel adhesive stamp.—Any person required by section 12 to cancel an adhesive stamp, and failing to cancel such stamp in manner prescribed by that section, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees.
64. Penalty for omission to comply with provisions of section 27.—Any person who, with intent to defraud the Government,—
(a) executes any instrument in which all the facts and circumstances required
by section 27 to be set forth in such instrument are not fully and truly set
forth; or
(b) being employed or concerned in or about the preparation of any
instruments, neglects or omits fully and truly to set forth therein all such
facts and circumstances; or
(c) does any other act calculated to deprive the Government of any duty or
penalty under this Act, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees.
65. Penalty for refusal to give receipt, and for devices to evade duty on receipts.—Any person who,—
(a) being required under section 30 to give a receipt, refuses or neglects to
give the same; or
(b) with intent to defraud the Government of any duty, upon a payment of money
or delivery of property exceeding twenty rupees in amount or value, gives a
receipt for an amount or value not exceeding twenty rupees, or separates or
divides the money or property paid or delivered, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to one hundred rupees.
66. Penalty for not making out policy or making one not duly stamped.—Any person who,—
(a) receives, or takes credit for, any premium or consideration for any
contract of insurance and does not, within one month after receiving, or
taking credit for, such premium or consideration, make out and execute a duly
stamped policy of such insurance; or
(b) makes, executes or delivers out any policy which is not duly stamped, or
pays or allows in account, or agrees to pay or allow in account, any money
upon, or in respect of, any such policy, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to two hundred rupees.
67. Penalty for not drawing full number of bills or marine policies purporting to be in sets.—Any person drawing or executing a bill or exchange 110 [payable otherwise than on demand] or a policy of marine insurance purporting to be drawn or executed in a set of two or more, and not at the same time drawing or executing on paper duly stamped the whole number of bills or policies of which such bill or policy purports the set to consist, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
68. Penalty for post-dating bills, and for other devices to defraud the revenue.—Any person who,—
(a) with intent to defraud the Government of duty, draws, makes or issues any
bill of exchange or promissory note bearing a date subsequent to that on which
such bill or note is actually drawn or made; or
(b) knowing that such bill or note has been so post-dated, endorses,
transfers, presents for acceptance or payment, or accepts, pays or receives
payment of, such bill or note, or in any manner negotiates the same; or
(c) with the like intent, practices or is concerned in any act, contrivance or
device not specially provided for by this Act or any other law for the time
being in force, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.
69. Penalty for breach of rule relating to sale of stamps and for unauthorized sale.—
(a) Any person appointed to sell stamps who disobeys any rule made under
section 74, and
(b) any person not so appointed who sells or offers for sale any stamp (other
than a 111 [ten naye paise or five naye paise] adhesive stamp), shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
70. Institution and conduct of prosecutions.—
(1) No prosecution in respect of any offence punishable under this Act or any
Act hereby repealed, shall be instituted without the sanction of the Collector
or such other officer as 112 [the 113 [State Government]] generally, or the
Collector specially, authorizes in that behalf.
(2) The Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority, or any officer generally or
specially authorized by it in this behalf, may stay any such prosecution or
compound any such offence.
(3) The amount of any such composition shall be recoverable in the manner
provided by section 48.
71. Jurisdiction of Magistrates.—No Magistrate other than a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate whose powers are not less than those of a Magistrate of the second class, shall try any offence under this Act.
72. Place of trial.—Every such offence committed in respect of any instrument may be tried in any district or presidency-town in which such instrument is found, as well as in any district or presidency-town in which such offence might be tried under the Code of Criminal Procedure for the time being in force.
73. Books, etc., to be open to inspection.—Every public officer having in his custody any registers, books, records, papers, documents or proceedings, the inspection whereof may tend to secure any duty, or to prove or lead to the discovery of any fraud or omission in relation to any duty, shall at all reasonable times permit any person authorized in writing by the Collector to inspect for such purpose the registers, books, papers, documents and proceedings and to take such notes and extracts as he may deem necessary, without fee or charge.
74. Powers to make rules relating to sale of stamps.—The 114 [State Government] 115 [***] may make rules for regulating—
(a) the supply and sale of stamps and stamped papers,
(b) the persons by whom alone such sale is to be conducted, and
(c) the duties and remuneration of such persons: Provided that such rules
shall not restrict the sale of 116 [ten naye paise or five naye paise]
adhesive stamps.
75. Power to make rules generally to carry out Act.—The 117 [State Government] may make rules to carry out generally the purposes of this Act, and may by such rules prescribe the fines, which shall in no case exceed five hundred rupees, to be incurred on breach thereof.
76. Publication of rules.— 118 [
(1) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Official Gazette.]
(2) All rules published as required by this section shall, upon such
publication, have effect as if enacted by this Act.
119 [(3) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before the State Legislature.]
120 [76A. Delegation of certain powers.— 121 [ 122 [***] The State Government,
may, by notification in the Official Gazette], delegate—
(a) all or any of the powers conferred on it by sections 2(9), 33(3) (b),
70(1), 74 and 78 to the Chief Controlling Revenue-Authority, and
(b) all or any of the powers conferred as the Chief Controlling Revenue-
Authority by sections 45(1) (2), 56(1) and 70(2) to such subordinate Revenue-
Authority as may be specified in the notification.]
77. Saving as to court-fees.—Nothing in this Act contained shall be deemed to affect the duties chargeable under any enactment for the time being in force relating to court-fees.
123 [77A. Saving as to certain stamps.—All stamps in denominations of annas
four or multiples thereof shall be deemed to be stamps of the value of twenty-
five naye paise or, as the case may be, multiples thereof and shall,
accordingly, be valid for all the purpose of this Act.]
78. Act to be translated, and sold cheaply.—Every 124 [State Government] shall make provision for the sale of translations of this Act in the principal vernacular languages of the territories administered by it at a price not exceeding 125 [twenty-five naye paise] per copy.
79. Repeal.—[Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914), sec. 3 and Sch. II.]
THE INDIAN STAMP ACT, 1899 SCHEDULE II.—Enactments repealed.—[Rep. by the
Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914), sec. 3 and Sch. II.].
1\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 3, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
2\. Subs. by the A.O. (No. 2) 1956, for “Part B States”.
3\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956 ).
4\. Clause (8) omitted by the A.O. 1937.
5\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
6\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
7\. Clause (12A) ins. by the A.O. 1937 and omitted by the A.O. 1950.
8\. Ins. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 1-4-1956 ).
9\. Ins. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 2.
10\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956 ).
11\. The word “and” omitted by Act 5 of 1906, sec. 2.
12\. Sub-clause (c) omitted by Act 5 of 1906, sec. 2.
13\. Ins. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 4 (w.e.f 1-4-1956 ).
14\. The word “and” omitted by Act 18 of 1928, sec. 2 and Sch. I.
15\. Ins. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 2.
16\. The word “and” ins. by Act 18 of 1928, sec. 2 and Sch. I and omitted by
the A.O. 1950.
17\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1928, sec. 2 and Sch. I.
18\. Now see the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950).
19\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 117 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004 ). Earlier clause (26)
was added by the A.O. 1950 and was omitted by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 4 (w.e.f.
1-4-1956 ).
20\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
21\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
22\. The word “cheque” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
23\. Ins. by Act 28 of 2005, sec. 57 and Third Sch., Pt. III.
24\. Ins. by Act 44 of 1971, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 15-11-1971).
25\. Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) rep. by Act 11 of 1963, sec. 92 (w.e.f.
1-8-1963).
26\. Subs. by Act 6 of 1910, sec. 2, for “eight annas per centum”.
27\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for "Governor-General in Council".
28\. Section 8A subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 118 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000 ). Earlier
section 8A was inserted by Act 22 of 1996, sec. 30 and Sch. (w.r.e.f.
20-9-1995 ).
29\. Ins. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 114 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
30\. Section 9 re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section by the A.O.
1950.
31\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Governor-General in Council.”
32\. The word “collecting” omitted by the A.O. 1950.
33\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “British India”.
34\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 117 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
35\. Ins. by Act 32 of 1994, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994).
36\. Ins. by the A.O. 1950.
37\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 69, for “Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution” (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
38\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
39\. The words “written in any Oriental language” omitted by Act 43 of 1955,
sec. 5 (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
40\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 2, for “with the duty of one anna or half
an anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
41\. The word “cheques” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
42\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
43\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
44\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
45\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
46\. The word “cheque” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
47\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
48\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
49\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
50\. The word “cheque” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
51\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
52\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for "Governor-General in Council".
53\. Subs. by Act 1 of 1912, sec. 3, for “Articles No. 5(b).”
54\. Subs. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 4, for the proviso.
55\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Secretary of State in Council”.
56\. Subs. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 5, for “No. 6. (Agreement to mortgage)”.
57\. Subs. by Act 5 of 1906, sec. 4, for clause (b).
58\. Added by Act 5 of 1906, sec. 5.
59\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 3, for “eight annas” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
60\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
61\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 4, for “with the duty of one anna or half
an anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
62\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Governor-General in Council”.
63\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
64\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 5, for "with a duty of one anna" (w.e.f.
1-10-1958).
65\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 69, for “not being an instrument chargeable
with a duty not exceeding ten naye paise only or a bill of exchange or
promissory note shall subject to all first exceptions” (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
66\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Government”.
67\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Crown”.
68\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Governor-General in Council”.
69\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
70\. Certain words omitted by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2, and Sch., Pt. I.
71\. Certain words omitted by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2, and Sch., Pt. I.
72\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 6, for “with a duty of anna or half an
anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
73\. Ins. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 6.
74\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 6, for “with a duty of anna or half an
anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
75\. Ins. by Act 15 of 1904, sec. 6.
76\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 6, for “with a duty of one anna or half an
anna” (w.e.f. 1-10- 1958).
77\. Subs. by Act. 5 of 1927, sec. 5, for “promissory note or cheque”.
78\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 7, for “with the duty of one anna” (w.e.f.
1-10-1958).
79\. Subs. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5, for “note or cheque”.
80\. Subs. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5, for “note or cheque”.
81\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
82\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
83\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
84\. The word “cheques” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
85\. Subs. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5, for “any bill of exchange”.
86\. The words "or cheque" omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
87\. The word "cheque" omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
88\. The words “or cheque” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
89\. Subs. by Act 43 of 1955, sec. 2, for “the States” (w.e.f. 1-4-1956).
90\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
91\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1906, sec. 6.
92\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958 sec. 8, for “one anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
93\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958 sec. 8, for “one anna” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
94\. Ins. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
95\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1973, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 1-4-1973).
96\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1904, sec. 7.
97\. Subs. by the A.O. (No.2), 1956, for clauses (a) to (g).
98\. Subs. by G.S.R. 1944, published in the Gazette of India., Extra., Pt. II,
Sec. 3 (ii), p. 578, dated 30th October, 1968.
99\. Subs. by G.S.R. 7 (E), published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II,
Sec. 3(ii), dated 2nd January, 1974.
100\. Omitted by Regulation 6 of 1963, sec. 2 and Sch.
101\. Subs. by G.S.R. 432, published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II,
Sec. 3 (ii), dated 21st October, 1974.
102\. Ins. by G.S.R. 1944, published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II,
Sec. 3(ii), p. 548, dated 30th October, 1968.
103\. Ins. by Regulation 6 of 1963, sec. 2 and Sch.
104\. The words “Chief Court or Judicial Commissioner’s Court” omitted by the
A.O. 1950.
105\. The words “Chief Court or Judicial Commissioner’s Court” omitted by the
A.O. 1950.
106\. The words “Chief Court or Judicial Commissioner’s Court” omitted by the
A.O. 1950.
107\. The words “Chief Court or Judicial Commissioner’s Court” omitted by the
A.O. 1950.
108\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
109\. The word “cheque” omitted by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
110\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1927, sec. 5.
111\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna” (w.e.f
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
omitted by the A.O. 1950.
123\. Ins. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 11 (w.e.f 1-10-1958).
124\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
125\. Subs. by Act 19 of 1958, sec. 12, for “four annas” (w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
for, any sum of money;
(3) “Bill of exchange payable on demand” includes—
(a) an order for the payment of any sum of money by a bill of exchange or
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory
note in satisfaction of any sum of money, or for the payment of any sum of
money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available, or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen;
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly, or at any
other stated period; and
(c) a letter of credit, that is to say, any instrument by which one person
authorizes another to give credit to the person in whose favour it is drawn;
(4) “Bill of lading” includes a “through bill lading”, but does not include a
mate's receipt;
(5) “Bond” includes—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another,
on condition that the obligation shall be void if a specified act is
performed, or is not performed, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer,
whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; and
(c) any instrument so attested, whereby a person obliges himself to deliver
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
for, any sum of money;
(3) “Bill of exchange payable on demand” includes—
(a) an order for the payment of any sum of money by a bill of exchange or
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory
note in satisfaction of any sum of money, or for the payment of any sum of
money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available, or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen;
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly, or at any
other stated period; and
(c) a letter of credit, that is to say, any instrument by which one person
authorizes another to give credit to the person in whose favour it is drawn;
(4) “Bill of lading” includes a “through bill lading”, but does not include a
mate's receipt;
(5) “Bond” includes—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another,
on condition that the obligation shall be void if a specified act is
performed, or is not performed, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer,
whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; and
(c) any instrument so attested, whereby a person obliges himself to deliver
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
for, any sum of money;
(3) “Bill of exchange payable on demand” includes—
(a) an order for the payment of any sum of money by a bill of exchange or
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory
note in satisfaction of any sum of money, or for the payment of any sum of
money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available, or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen;
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly, or at any
other stated period; and
(c) a letter of credit, that is to say, any instrument by which one person
authorizes another to give credit to the person in whose favour it is drawn;
(4) “Bill of lading” includes a “through bill lading”, but does not include a
mate's receipt;
(5) “Bond” includes—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another,
on condition that the obligation shall be void if a specified act is
performed, or is not performed, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer,
whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; and
(c) any instrument so attested, whereby a person obliges himself to deliver
grain or other agricultural produce to another;
(6) “Chargeable” means, as applied to an instrument executed or first executed
after the commencement of this Act, chargeable under this Act, and, as applied
to any other instrument, chargeable under the law in force in 3 [India] when
such instrument was executed or, where several persons executed the instrument
at different times, first executed;
(7) “Cheque” means a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker and not
expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand; 4 [***]
(9) “Collector”—
(a) means, within the limits of the towns of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, the
Collector of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, respectively, and, without those
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
for, any sum of money;
(3) “Bill of exchange payable on demand” includes—
(a) an order for the payment of any sum of money by a bill of exchange or
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory
note in satisfaction of any sum of money, or for the payment of any sum of
money out of any particular fund which may or may not be available, or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed or happen;
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly, or at any
other stated period; and
(c) a letter of credit, that is to say, any instrument by which one person
authorizes another to give credit to the person in whose favour it is drawn;
(4) “Bill of lading” includes a “through bill lading”, but does not include a
mate's receipt;
(5) “Bond” includes—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another,
on condition that the obligation shall be void if a specified act is
performed, or is not performed, as the case may be;
(b) any instrument attested by a witness and not payable to order or bearer,
whereby a person obliges himself to pay money to another; and
(c) any instrument so attested, whereby a person obliges himself to deliver
grain or other agricultural produce to another;
(6) “Chargeable” means, as applied to an instrument executed or first executed
after the commencement of this Act, chargeable under this Act, and, as applied
to any other instrument, chargeable under the law in force in 3 [India] when
such instrument was executed or, where several persons executed the instrument
at different times, first executed;
(7) “Cheque” means a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker and not
expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand; 4 [***]
(9) “Collector”—
(a) means, within the limits of the towns of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, the
Collector of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, respectively, and, without those
1-10-1958).
112\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Local Government”.
113\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
114\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
115\. The words “subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
116\. Subs. by the Act 19 of 1958, sec. 10, for “one anna or half an anna”
(w.e.f. 1-10-1958).
117\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “collecting Government”.
118\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (1).
119\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2005, sec. 2 and Sch.
120\. Ins. by Act 4 of 1914, sec. 2 and Sch., Pt. I.
121\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “The Local Government may by notification in
the local Official Gazette”.
122\. The words, brackets and figures “The Central Government, subject to the
provisions of section 124(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and”
