Customs, Excise and Gold Tribunal - Mumbai
Hi Lingos Co. Ltd. vs Collector Of Customs on 20 September, 1993
Equivalent citations: 1994 (72) ELT 392 Tri Mumbai
ORDER R. Jayaraman, Member (T)
1\. This is an appeal against the Order-in-Original No. CIU/ INF
/20/92/S/10-8/93 dated 5-1-1993 passed by the Collector of Customs, Bombay. In
this order, the Collector has ordered confiscation of six containers
consisting of total 5100 bags declared to be Sodium Tripoly Phosphate
(hereinafter referred to as S.T.P.P.) but actually found to be Poly Vinyl
Alcohol, under Section 111(d), (f) & (g) of the Customs Act, but allowing
redemption for re-export to the appellants (who have shipped the consignment
from Keelung, Taiwan) on payment of a fine of Rs. one crore. The Collector has
also imposed a penalty of Rs. 50 lakhs on the appellants.
2\. The facts of the case can be stated as below:
2(1) The appellants are reported to be a trading concern in Taiwan. They have
shipped six containers each declared to contain 102 M.T. of S.T.P.P. from
Keelung, under Bill of lading dated 21-9-1992 issued by N.Y.K. Lines. The
notified party in India as per the B/L is declared to be M/s. U.K. Paint
Industries, Delhi. As per the export manifest filed by the shippers for export
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
also the markings and other particulars as given in the Bill of lading. The
goods are declared to be of Taiwanese origin. The destination port as per B/L
is Bombay. The individual bags containing the material also bore the labels
S.T.P.P. (Lot No. 05) - (Specimen of label given at page 46 of paper book
filed by the S.D.R.). The vessel M.V. Paithoon carrying this cargo arrived in
Bombay on or about 12-10-1992. The agents of the vessel prepared the Import
General Manifest and delivered to Customs through the main agents M/s. Samrat
Shipping Ltd. In the said manifest, the cargo in question was figuring at item
No. 79 but found deleted, though the total of the items remained the same for
discharge at Bombay and this item was also not figuring in the list of items
as same bottom cargo.
2(2) It, therefore, appeared to the Department that though the cargo as per
the B/L and the manifest prepared was meant for discharge at Bombay and
remained on board the vessel arrived at Bombay, the deletion of this item was
made to make it appear that the cargo was not meant for discharge at Bombay.
Information was earlier received by the C.I.U. of Bombay Customs that M/s.
U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi and some other firms closely connected with
them were indulging in unauthorised import of chemicals and petrochemical
items by misdeclaration of description and value and hence they were keeping
watch over receipt of such consignments. As these consignments manifested for
discharge at Bombay with consignees M/s U.K. Paint Industries but the item was
found deleted in the manifest filed with Customs, the Customs Department
requested the master of the vessel to unload the above six containers at
Bombay (vide letter dated 12-10-1992 of A.C., Customs, Bombay). The master of
the vessel in his letter dated 14-10-1992 confirmed the presence of these six
containers said to contain S.T.P.P. and indicated that he would be discharging
them at Bombay, since he had no communication with any party with regard to
change of destination of the said cargo.
2(3) On 19-11-1992, the appellants sent a letter to the Collector of Customs,
Bombay seeking permission to allow reshipment of this consignment of six
containers. However, no reasons seeking for reshipment were given in the
letter. On 1-12-1992, the appellants again wrote a letter to the Collector of
Customs stating that they have authorised one Shri N.H. Shah, Advocate to
represent their case in respect of reshipment of the six containers.
Thereafter, the Assistant Collector, C.I.U. sought for certain information
with regard to goods imported and about the shipment from the appellants. This
letter was transmitted through the steamer agents. The steamer agents informed
the Customs that the shippers (appellants) were unwilling to forward any
information/documents required by the Customs (vide steamer agent's letter
dated 2-12-1992). M/s. U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi (Notified party as per
B/L) were also asked to furnish details about this import consigned in the
same. One more consignment of 15 containers which had arrived by another
vessel consigned to M/s. U.K. Paint Inds., New Delhi was also detained and
hence the Customs asked M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. to file the B/E for clearance of
the goods in accordance with proper procedure, failing which the Customs would
examine the said goods and proceed with matter as per law. M/s U.K. Paint
Inds., New Delhi in their letter dated 30-10-1992 stated that cargo in this
case did not belong to them and they did not have any right, title or
ownership of the cargo and hence requested the Customs to deal with the cargo
as deemed fit. On 4-12-1992, the advocate authorised by the appellants wrote a
letter claiming that the appellants are general merchants and traders in
Taiwan and on account of bona fide mistake and lapse on their part, they have
shipped Poly Vinyl Alcohol (P.V.A.) instead of declared description, S.T.P.P.
As both the items are in the form of white powder, this mistake has occurred.
S.T.P.P. was intended for M/s. U.K. Paint Inds., New Delhi and after shipment
of the goods, the appellants realised that mistake and accordingly instructed
their shippers not to unload the said goods at Bombay. The goods are not
claimed by anyone in India and they, being exporter of the goods, and also the
owner, should be restored the goods by allowing reshipment. Thereafter, the
advocate, on behalf of the appellants appeared on 18-12-1992 and indicated
that the appellants would furnish replies to the queries raised earlier by the
Department with regard to the goods.
2(4) On 29-12-1992, the appellants sent a fax in reply to the question posed,
in which they admitted that there are no written purchase orders placed by
M/s. U.K. Paint Industries and as per the practice they did not insist on the
same. There are no correspondences exchanged with M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. in
regard to the consignment in question and they have no particulars about
import licence or the details of the Bank through which payment for the goods
were to be made on receipt of documents by the importers. The goods were
purchased in the open market and not from any manufacturer and hence, they do
not know the name of the manufacturer. Since the goods were purchased in the
open market, they do not have any purchase order for the purchase of the
goods. Since the consignee refused to accept P.V.A., after being informed and
they made some attempt to search the other buyers for P.V.A. in India and,
therefore, explored the possibility of diverting the goods from Bombay to
Kandla or to reship the goods back. Since the goods have been shipped wrongly,
they would seek for reshipment. They also submitted copies of various telex
messages and letters with steamer agents.
2(5) The documents submitted by the appellants alongwith their reply are the
following:
(i) Telex No. 18473 FA 360 dated 6-10-1992 sent by the appellants to F.F.C.,
Bombay. In this telex, it is indicated that due to some licence problem, the
buyers in India requested the shippers to divert all the six containers to
Kandla port.
(ii) Telexes from Singapore to F.F.C., Bombay dated 9-10-1992 stating that
they had collected original B/L from the appellants for the consignment.
(iii) Letter dated 13-10-1992 from M/s. N.Y.K., Singapore requesting for
faxing the instructions given by C.I.U. of Bombay Customs and also original
manifest and the revised manifest.
(iv) Telex dated 16-10-1992 from F.F.C., received by the appellants intimating
the details of letters received from Bombay Customs and also reporting about
the detention of the containers.
(v) Letter dated 13-10-1992 from M/s. Hi Lingos Co. Ltd. to N.Y.K., Singapore
asking them not to unload the six containers in Bombay and if unloaded, the
steamer agents would be responsible for all consequences.
(vi) Letter dated 14-10-1992 from F.F.C. to the appellants that it is their
statutory duty to comply with Customs directions and if the goods are not
offloaded, the Customs has full powers to execute the action for arresting the
ship.
The admitted position even till date is that no documents for their claim of
purchase of S.T.P.P. in Taiwan for supply to M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. in
pursuance of their order is available.
2(6) The Customs Department also recorded the statement of one Shri Bhaskar
Shivaram Ghaisis (Executive) of M/s. F.F.C., Bombay. In this statement, he
admits having handed over the B/L for the consignment to Customs , officers on
7-10-1992. He also stated that on 8-10-1992, his office received a fax message
from M/s. N.Y.K., Singapore for awaiting further instructions regarding
discharge of the six containers in Bombay. Taipe officer of M/s. N.Y.K. sent ;
a telex stating that due to the import licence problem, the consignee of the
goods requested the shippers to divert the cargo from Bombay to Kandla and if
not possible, to retain the cargo on board the vessel and bring back to
Singapore and then ship to Kandla. Samrat shipping agents were informed by the
Singapore principal not to unload the cargo at Bombay and this information was
conveyed to them on 9-10-1992. The goods were indicated under item No. 79 in
the manifest prepared by their office as per B/L. However, on the basis of
telex dated 8-10-1992 from M/s. Lien Co. Ltd., that the shippers have given
guarantee details, the item was deleted by them.
2(7) The goods offloaded were examined and found to be as per the details in
B/L with regard to marks and numbers and the individual bags were found to be
bearing labels indicating them as S.T.P.P. made in Taiwan. Samples drawn from
the consignment were also sent to Customs chemical laboratory.
2(8) Personal hearing was extended to the authorised advocate, where he
pleaded for waiver of written Show-Cause Notice. After hearing the advocate
and considering the above evidences, the Collector rejected the contention of
the appellants that it is a case of a bona fide erroneous shipment, but a part
of their design to facilitate import of high valued and high duty chemicals in
the guise of S.T.P.P. for evading duty and the appellants were privy to this
scheme and passed the impugned order.
3\. Heard the elaborate arguments of Shri VS. Nankani, the ld. advocate. He
does not dispute the factual position recorded above. After narrating the
sequence of events and taking us through the correspondence with the shipping
lines and agents in Bombay by the appellants, he made the following
propositions for our consideration :
3(1) There is actually no import of the goods into India. Hence confiscation
of goods and imposition of penalty on the appellants are without jurisdiction.
Though the Bombay High Court have dismissed the writ petition on the question
of lack of jurisdiction, the Apex Court have left the issue open for decision
by the Tribunal independently. Elaborating on the proposition, he points out
that on 6-10-1992 itself, the steamer agents were informed not to unload the
goods at Bombay and to explore the possibility of offloading at Kandla or to
bring back to Singapore and then take to Kandla. On 9-10-1992, the steamer
agents confirmed the arrangement for retention of cargo on board and bringing
back to Singapore. Vessel arrived at Bombay on or about 12-10-1992 and the
Import Manifest was filed on 15-10-1992. Since even before the arrival of the
vessel an I.G.M. was filed with the Customs, export of that consignment to
India was countermanded by the appellants and hence there is no import into
India. In short, the character of the goods is that in transit. Section 2(23)
of the Customs Act, defines 'import' as that unless the context otherwise
required, bringing of goods into India from a place outside India. Merely
because the vessel with the cargo loaded entered into Bombay or the
territorial waters of India, such a cargo cannot be said to have been imported
into India, because of the fact that in this case, even before the vessel
touched Bombay Port, and I.G.M. filed, export has been countermanded by the
appellants and they have called back the goods. Non-mention of these goods as
in transit or as in same bottom for discharge at Singapore cannot be a vital
factor for confiscating the goods, especially when the evidences in the form
of their correspondences with shipping line agents and the acceptance for
retention of cargo clearly indicate the character of cargo as intransit. Even
if it is construed an omission, it is not on account of the fault of the
appellants but possibly due to mistake on the part of the local agents at
Bombay, who prepared the manifest for submission to Customs Department or due
to communication gap with the master of the vessel. When the character of the
goods as in transit is known, there was no need to get them offloaded at
Bombay, when the goods were not for discharge at Bombay. The goods came to be
discharged at Bombay not on their own but due to compulsion and under
direction by Bombay Customs. Provisions for amending the manifest as laid down
under Section 30 of the Customs Act would apply only after the I.G.M. has been
filed. Since the I.G.M. was filed only on 15-10-1992, and even before that
date, the appellants' contract with shipping lines for carriage of goods to
Bombay has been altered as evident from the various telexes before that date,
there was no requirement to seek for permission to amend the I.G.M. Hence, he
would plead that the goods are to be considered in transit and since the goods
are under O.G.L. and can be imported by all, there is no prohibition under
Section 11, which could be applied for transit of goods as per provisions of
Section 53 of the Customs Act.
3(2) The appellants are not a party to any conspiracy. He referred to the
observation of the Collector in para 25 page 62 of the order, wherein the
Collector has alleged a conspiracy to import high valued chemicals to be
cleared duty free under the D.E.E.C. licence. The Collector in his findings
has recognised the long standing business relationship of the appellants with
M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. as is evidenced from previous imports by M/s. U.K. Paint
Inds. from the appellants. Hence the absence of written purchase order etc.
cannot be a factor for sustaining such an allegation. Their contract was oral
based on long standing business relationship. It is also on record that the
appellants had supplied the same S.T.P.P. to M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. and the lot
number of S.T.P.P., previously cleared is the same as the present ones.
Possibly because of the same lot numbers of the previous consignment of
S.T.P.P. the present confusion in shipment might have occurred. Hence there is
no mala fide in the appellants' declaration in export documents and for
obtaining Bill of lading. This is a case of bona fide wrong shipment of goods
due to the fact that both S.T.P.P. and P.V.A. are in white powder form and
both the previous consignment of S.T.P.P, and the present consignment of
P.V.A. had same lot numbers, the bona fide mistake in wrong shipment has
occurred. This cannot be construed as a conspiracy. The previous consignment
of S.T.P.P. has been cleared without any allegation of misdeclaration. Hence,
in the absence of any evidence, it cannot be alleged that the appellants were
supplying high valued P.V.A. misdeclaring it as S.T.P.P. in their documents.
The appellants' initial attempt to divert the consignment to Kandla was with a
view to finding any other Indian buyer for P.V.A. and Kandla, being cheaper
with regard to port charges for detention. In any case, their countermanding
of exports or for diverting to Kandla was not after investigation by Customs.
The Customs commenced their enquiry only on 7-10-1992 with the shipping agents
and this was not also within the knowledge of the appellants. The appellants
came to know of this for the first time only on 13-10-1992. Hence their
instructions to the shipping lines for retention of cargo or for diversion to
Kandla, having been initiated as early as on 6-10-1992, are not to be
construed as an effort to retrieve the cargo after commencement of the Customs
investigation. Hence the ratio of the Apex Court decision in M/s. Sampatraj
Dugar's case - 1992 (58) E.L.T. 163 (S.C.) would be applicable and the goods
should be allowed to be reshipped to the appellants without fine. Similar
approach has also been adopted by the Tribunal - vide 1991 (53) E.L.T. 29,1989
(38) E.L.T. 388,1992 (58) E.L.T. 268.
3(3) His third proposition is that confiscation under Section 111(d), (f) and
(g) is not legally sustainable.
(i) Section 111(d) is not attracted, because the goods can be imported under
O.G.L. by any person. Hence, there is no prohibition or restriction in import
of the goods attracting Section 111(d).
(ii) Section 111(f) is applicable to dutiable or prohibited goods required to
be manifested but not manifested. Here, the goods are not dutiable because
they are in transit and hence as per provisions of Section 53 of the Customs
Act, no duty is attracted on such goods. Hence even if they are not figuring
in the manifest, they do not attract Section 111 (f).
(iii) Section 111(g) is applicable to dutiable or prohibited goods unloaded
from the vessel in contravention of the provisions of Section 32. Here the
goods were not meant to be unloaded but were offloaded only at the compulsion
of Customs Department. Hence Section 111(g) is not attracted.
3(4) The fourth proposition is that when reshipment is allowed, even if it is
held that the goods are liable for confiscation, fine cannot be nearly double
the C.I.F. value, which is only Rs. 52 lakhs. The fine cannot be linked up
with any margin of profit or duty involved because the goods are not going
into consumption in India. The fine can only be nominal and cannot be punitive
to the extent of Rs. 1 crore, especially when the order is for reshipment and
not for home consumption in India.
3(5) Even if it is held that the Collector has jurisdiction to order
confiscation of goods, penalty (proceedings in personam) against the appellant
are beyond his jurisdiction. Appellant is a foreign supplier of goods and the
provisions of the Customs Act extends to India only. Hence penalty can not be
imposed on a foreigner, who has neither come to India nor committed any
offence under the customs law abroad, resulting in confiscation of goods. In
this context, he seeks to rely on the decision of the South Regional Bench in
the case of Shri Kunhahammed v. Collector of Customs, Cochin -1992 (62) E.L.T.
146 (Tribunal).
4(1) Shri Mondal, the ld. S.D.R. ably refuted each of these contentions. He
took us through the various documents filed in the paper book filed by him and
also cited by the other side to appreciate the chronological events. He also
pointed out the inconsistent stand reflected in their earlier telexes with
shipping line where they claimed that they wanted to bring back the goods to
Singapore on account of Import licence problem without making a whisper about
wrong shipment of the goods and their belated attempt to claim it as a wrong
shipment, their initial refusal to answer any queries by Customs, though they
wanted the Customs to allow reshipment. He also points out that their final
replies to Customs queries clearly indicate that there were no documents at
all with the appellants in the form of purchase order, the particulars of
packing, from where the materials were procured in Taiwan, how wrong despatch
has occurred. They were not even aware of the bank through which the documents
are to be sent. Even the sale invoice has not been produced by them. Their
claim that goods valued over Rs. 50 lakhs were purchased in the open market
without any documents and were shipped wrongly with labels bearing description
S.T.P.P. instead of P.V.A. without offering any details as to where they were
packed and how wrong shipment has been effected, does not carry any
credibility. This admitted position itself speaks volumes about their mala
fides.
4(2) Shri Mondal points out that the explanation called for by the Customs was
refused by the appellants initially, though they sought for reshipment of the
goods without stating the reasons for claiming reshipment. Their subsequent
explanation indicating that the goods valued over Rs. 50 lakhs have been
shipped by them without any documents and without any arrangement for
recovering the value of export through any bank and without even preparing any
invoice for the consignment clearly indicate that this is not a genuine
transaction in the course of normal international trade, but a serious
challenge to the Government of India by attempting to send goods with a false
description to hoodwink the Customs for clearing them at lower duty or nil
duty against D.E.E.C. licence. The ld. Counsel claims that licence problem and
wrong despatch of the goods are two sides of the same coin; because the goods
were shipped against D.E.E.C. licence and because of wrong shipment, the said
licence being not valid for P.V.A., M/s. U.K. Paint Industries have refused to
take delivery of the goods. Going by the plea, it is conceded by the ld.
Counsel that the goods were shipped against duty-free D.E.E.C. licence and
P.V.A. is not covered by the licence; hence it is a prohibited item sought to
be supplied against D.E.E.C. licence with a false description S.T.P.P, while
the item supplied was only P.V.A. Hence even if it is held that it is in
transit, Section 53 cannot be available for transit, since these are
prohibited goods attracting provisions of Section 11 of the Customs Act. He
also refers to the itinerary of the vessels carrying the cargo in question.
First the goods were loaded at Keelung per vessel ACX Lily, which arrived at
Keelung on 20-9-1992 and departed on 21-9-1992. It arrived at Singapore on
26-9-1992. Goods were transhipped at Singapore from ACX Lily to Vessel
Paithoon. The said vessel Paithoon left Singapore on 28-9-1992 and arrived at
Bombay on 12-10-1992. He posed the question if the appellants really had sent
the wrong shipment and faced consequent licence problem, the appellants would
have stopped the consignment at Singapore itself on 26-9-1992, since the
transhipment took place between 26-9-1992 to 28-9-1992. Viewed in this
background, his waiting till 6-10-1992 for initiating telexes with shipping
lines itself indicates that the appellants had got the news of the watch being
kept over the consignment imported by M/s. U.K. Paint Industries and just
prior to the vessel discharging the cargo at Bombay, they made frantic efforts
to retrieve the cargo sought to be smuggled in with a false description.
Hence, such an attempt is nothing but mala fide. Their attempts at keeping the
cargo on board the vessel and preventing its discharge at Bombay and frantic
effort to divert it to Kandla are to be viewed in this perspective. Hence mere
deletion of the item from the manifest even without any information to Bombay
Customs or to the master of the vessel and without even showing it as same
bottom cargo is nothing but a ploy to retrieve the cargo sought to be smuggled
in with a false description, which otherwise would have been cleared by M/s.
U.K. Paint Inds. against D.E.E.C. licence, had the Customs not kept a watch
over such consignments imported by M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. for detailed
scrutiny.
4(3) The character of the goods remain as for import into India. Going by the
itinerary of the vessel, only goods for Karachi - next port of call after
Bombay can be construed to be goods in transit. Even if the appellant had
sought for retention of cargo on board for carrying back to Singapore, it only
amounts to reshipment of the goods back to Singapore, from where the goods
have come by vessel Paithoon, on transhipment at Singapore. Hence such a
reshipment is permissible only on making a request before the Bombay Customs
and the same being allowed on a proper satisfaction about the bonafide nature
of the claim. Here a fraudulent attempt is made to hoodwink the customs by not
allowing the goods to be discharged at the port of destination, because of
fear of detention by the Customs. Because of these fraudulent attempts, the
character of the goods cannot be changed from 'import' to transit, by mere
deletion of the item in the import manifest before filing the same. Hence the
Department is well justified in directing the master of the vessel to offload
the goods, to which the master also has no hesitation in acceding because he
was kept totally in dark about the change of destination mooted by the
appellants. Had it been a bonafide case of wrong supply, the appellants would
have, in the first instance, approached Taiwan Customs for correcting their
export declaration and through Tai . an Customs, approached Bombay Customs for
allowing reshipment. Here they entered into correspondences with shipping line
to coerce them to retain the cargo on board and to delete the item in the
I.G.M. behind the back of both the Customs authorities at Taiwan as well as in
India. Hence, their plea that the goods are in transit to Singapore is bereft
of any merit.
4(4) He also countered the arguments of the ld. counsel by stating that export
cannot be countermanded once the goods have left the territorial waters of
Taiwan. He cited the decision of the Apex Court in 1988 (35) E.L.T. 241 (SC)
in the case of Collector of Customs v. Sun Industries. He also cited the
decision of the Apex Court in the case of Gramophone Co. of India v. Shri
Birendra Bahadur Pandey \- AIR 1984 SC 667 to urge that the term 'import' is
not limited only to import for commerce and it includes importation for
transit across the country. He also refers to the decision of the Apex Court
in the case of Shri Radhakrishan Bhatia -1984 ECR 497 (SC) to urge that
commission of the offence must be at a stage prior the completion of the
illegal import into the country and the offence of illegal importation is
complete, once the goods have crossed the Customs frontier.
4(5) Here not a shred of paper excepting B/L about the export of goods valued
over Rs. 50 lakhs is produced, though the appellant takes pains to produce
their correspondence with the shipping lines. No invoice is available. No bank
is indicated for retirement of documents. No Letter of Credit has been opened
by the importer. Even though contract may be oral, such oral contracts are
normally noticed in the case of purchase of items from the shop for daily
needs by the consumer and even in those transactions, cash bills are issued.
These are not items of vegetables or grocery supplied on oral contract based
on longstanding relationship. These are high valued chemicals valued over Rs.
50 lakhs, for which the admitted position is that no documents even for
purchase at Taiwan exist. No one can be sure of their claim that as per the
oral contract, they are to supply S.T.P.P. against which, by mistake, they
supplied P.V.A. Only, their word is to be believed, especially when M/s. U.K.
Paint Inds. have stated that they have nothing to do with this consignment.
Contract is between two parties. It can be proved, if the written contract is
produced. If it is claimed to be oral, unless the other party admits the
existence of such an oral contract, the burden is on the appellants to
establish this. Here not a shred of evidence is produced for the existence of
such an oral contract. The longstanding association claimed by the appellants
with M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. can only be construed to be for the purpose of
sending goods with false description and if they are successfully landed,
prepare documents to facilitate clearance. If they are caught or likely to be
caught, a show is to be made of wrong shipment and to resort to retrieve the
goods by way of reshipment, so that it can be again sent for smuggling in.
Such an attempt can never be construed bona fide and the appellants, by any
standards, cannot be said to have shipped the goods under a bona fide contract
for supply of S.T.P.P. entered into in the course of international trade.
Hence the plea of innocence is to be rejected outright.
4(6) Shri Mondal also contends that since the goods were not manifested and
the item is deleted from the manifest even without showing it as same bottom
cargo, they are liable for confiscation under Section 111(f). Such a
predicament has been created only because of the desperate efforts of the
appellants to retrieve the cargo even without informing Customs, when they
came to know of the watch being kept over the cargo by Bombay Customs. It is
not on account of act of omission committed either by the master or by the
steam agents on their own. Hence their plea that the omission cannot be held
against the appellants is not sustainable. The goods, as per their claim, have
been shipped against D.E.E.C. licence held by M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. and not
under O.G.L. This licence allowed the goods free of duty. Hence when the goods
imported are not covered by this licence, they are liable for confiscation
under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act.
4(7) On the question of redemption fine, he personally feels that this is a
case where absolute confiscation is justified. Since the Collector has allowed
redemption and no appeal has been filed by the Department, he cannot plead
against redemption order. But the Collector, having realised the evil designs
of the appellants, is well justified in imposing fine of a deterrent nature so
that they do not resort to such dubious exports to India with false
description and to facilitate in getting them cleared by their counterparts in
India. He, therefore, pleads that fine imposed should not be modified.
4(8) On the question of jurisdiction of the Collector of Customs for imposing
penalty on foreign national, he refers to the article written by Shri
Raghavachari, erstwhile Member (Judicial) of the Tribunal in Excise Law Times
dt. 15th April, 1993, wherein the view taken by South Regional Bench in the
case of Shri Kunhahammed cited by the ld. advocate,, has been seriously
contested. He would like to adopt those arguments in that article. Since in
this case the entire import has been engineered by the appellants by
misdeclaring the description and once having got the scent of the Customs
investigation, their attempt is to retrieve the goods by hook or crook. Hence
their action clearly comes within the mischief of Section 112 of the Customs
Act. Moreover in this case, in the absence of M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. claiming
the goods and the appellants' attempt to divert the goods to Kandla in the
hope of finding out another person to lend name to clear the goods, indicate
in all probability that they are also the importers, even though they are in
foreign country.
5\. Shri Nadkarni, in reply, stated that certain consignments landed per
vessel Elizabeth were detained by Customs for investigation are relied upon
for sustaining conspiracy theory against the appellants. Out of this, one
consignment of P.V.C. imported by M/s. Gujarat State Export Corporation
detained, has been ultimately released by Customs Department. In this context,
he referred to the B/E and order of release filed as additional evidences. On
query by the Bench, he admits that the second consignment of 15 containers to
M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. supplied by another party have been confiscated and the
appeal is now pending before the Tribunal. However, he is not aware of the
fate of other consignments imported by M/s. U.K. Paint Inds. referred to in
page 14 of the order. However, in this case, even on 7-10-1992, the parties to
the contract of shipment by the vessel have agreed to change the Bill of
Lading for discharge of cargo at Singapore and the B/L was taken over by
Bombay Customs from Mr. Ghasis, Executive of the shipping line at Bombay only
on 7-10-1992, by which time contract with shipping line has been changed.
Hence he reiterates his claim for treating it as in transit cargo, not meant
for discharge at Bombay. The letter of the master of the vessel is belied by
Mr. Ghasis's statement to the effect that when I.G.M. was given, the item was
deleted. If Samrat Shipping Co. have failed to give instruction to the master,
because of communication gap, it does not change the character of goods as in
transit to Singapore. Master of the vessel is only an agent of the shipping
company. When the Principals have accepted the change of destination of cargo,
agents' version cannot be taken. The initial claim of the appellants of
licence problem with the importers and the subsequent claim of wrong shipment
are only two sides of the same coin and are not inconsistent with each other.
Even if the goods are held liable to confiscation, the case laws cited by the
ld. S.D.R. do not confer jurisdiction for imposing penalty. Section 1(3) of
F.E.R.A. specifically confers extra territorial jurisdiction. Likewise Indian
Penal Code also confers jurisdiction extending beyond India. The Customs Act
only extends to the territory of India and not beyond. Hence any act of
omission or commission done outside India by a foreigner though rendering the
goods liable for confiscation in India, no penalty can be adjudicated for want
of jurisdiction under the Act, which confirms itself in application only to
India. Jurisdiction cannot be conferred or acquired, merely because the
appellants have submitted to adjudication. Even that submission is only with
regard to their claim for reshipment of the goods and not for agreeing to be
imposed with a penalty. If, per se, under the Act, jurisdiction beyond India
is not given, the order imposing penalty on a foreigner for acts done abroad,
suffers from lack of jurisdiction.
6.1 Before considering the five propositions put forth by the ld. Counsel Shri
Nankani, we would first consider the bonafides of their claim for reshipment
on the ground of wrong shipment. Since these propositions revolve around this
claim, it has become necessary to get the position clear in the first
instance. Moreover, any application of case law or appreciation of legal
position cannot be done in abstract; but in the context of the factual
position emerging. Apart from the Apex Court's decision in Sampatraj Dugar
case, there are many judgments of the Tribunal as well as some of the High
Courts allowing reshipment of goods to the foreign suppliers without invoking
penal provisions under the Customs Act. But in all these cases, the underlying
principle discernible is that the goods have been shipped by the foreign
suppliers in accordance with law and the normal course of international trade,
but the importer in India backs out from clearance on his own and there are no
malafides on the part of suppliers. Even in the case of Sampath Raj Dugar, the
facts before the Apex Court were that the goods supplied were against a valid
import licence at the time of shipment, but licence was cancelled later and
the importer did not pay for the goods. There was no fault on the part of the
foreign supplier in shipping the goods in accordance with the law. The Apex
Court interpreted the provisions of law in that context and specifically
observed that it is a case of import, which is not contrary to law and their
decision is also confined only to such a situation. Hence any application of
these citations without proper consideration of the bonafides and lawful
shipment, would lead to distorted results. Hence we choose to deal with this
aspect first, before considering the five propositions set out by the ld.
counsel.
6.2 In the case before us, the following facts are not disputed. The foreign
supplier has previously supplied certain goods and STPP to M/s U.K. Paints,
Delhi and claims to have business relationship with them and hence goods in
the present case were supplied by them on the basis of oral contract, without
any purchase order in writing and without any written confirmation of contract
and without insisting on L.C. The oral contract was to supply STPP in six
containers to M/s. U.K. Paints and by mistake, they have shipped P.V.A. Hence
even before the vessel reached Bombay they have sought to get the goods back
by surrendering the Bill of Lading and by mutual agreement with shipping line,
the cargo was retained on board the vessel for onward carriage to Singapore,
if not possible to send to Kandla. Hence they plead bonafides. On the face of
it, this defence looks attractive but for the following adverse factors
staring at the defence :
(i) Goods valued about Rs. 52 lakhs have been sent without cover of any
document, even invoice, test certificate, packing slips. The method of
retiring the documents through the Bank, (even if L.C. condition is waived
because of standing business relationship) has been given a go-by. There is no
document showing acquisition of STPP at Taiwan by the appellants before
shipment.
(ii) The appellants even do not know the particulars of licence and their
importability into India by U.K. Paints. Their claim is that STPP was supplied
by them to U.K. Paints and they have gone by oral contract. This could
possibly find acceptance, if as per the verbal contract, the goods supplied
were found to be STPP. The admitted position is that it is only P.V.A. In the
circumstance, their plea of oral contract and the theory of wrong supply are
to be approached with due caution. That is what we propose to do.
(iii) Though contracts can be orally agreed upon between the contracting
parties, the burden of establishing that there was a valid contract existing
for performance of legally permissible act, is on the party affirming the
existence of such a contract, especially when the other party clearly
indicates that he is not having any concern with the goods supplied in
pursuance of such a contract. In this case before us, such a burden squarely
falls on the appellants. They have not produced a piece of evidence, excepting
pointing out certain findings of the Collector that he also recognises
previous imports by U.K. Paints from the appellants and thereby establish
longstanding business relationship with U.K. Paints. Even for the sake of
argument, we are led to believe that because of previous suplies to U.K.
Paints, they have exported the present consignment on a verbal contract, still
we are not satisfied that such a contract is for performance of an act
sanctioned under the law namely for supplying STPP to U.K. Paints. A contract,
which can be enforced in any court, should be one for performance of acts
legally sanctioned and not for illegal acts. Here, in the context of the
admitted position, we find that as against the verbal contract claimed to be
for shipment of STPP, the goods shipped were P.V.A. They have not produced any
evidence to show that they acquired this much of quantity of STPP from various
sources in Taiwan and instead of shipping it, they shipped P.V.A. wrongly.
Here their claim' of having purchased STPP from market in Taiwan itself is not
supported by evidences and this is the admitted position. Hence we are led to
believe that the appellants have not acquired STPP claimed to be covered by
this shipment from any sources in Taiwan. Their claim, that since it was open
market purchase, there is no purchase order, is also found to be difficult to
digest. Because, the enormity of the quantity and its value involved rule out
such an acquisition without any document. Hence we are led to believe that the
appellants have not acquired STPP for shipment and hence the question of
shipping STPP in pursuance of verbal contract does not arise. They have
shipped only P.V.A. knowingly under the false description STPP and this could
only be the purpose and content of the verbal contract claimed to be in
existence. Hence such a contract executed verbally for an illegal act, being
not legally enforceable against the other side, they now apparently choose to
retrieve the goods by putting forth the theory of wrong shipment. Such a
theory being not supported by any piece of evidence regarding acquisition of
STPP for shipment and their packing, mistake in shipment, cannot find
acceptance by us, however much we are persuaded by the tempting and persuasive
arguments of Shri Nankani. In the result, the factual position discussed above
indicates that even if we assume the existence of a verbal contract, that
contract apparently is for sending P.V.A. by declaring the goods as STPP for
illegal import into India against duty-free import licences. This conclusion
is inescapable, because of the admitted position that the appellants do not
have any evidence of acquisition of STPP, their packing simultaneously with
P.V.A. causing wrong shipment. On the contrary, the Department's allegation
that previous consignment of STPP bearing same batch number also could have
been P.V.A., because of the same batch number indicated in that, cannot be
ruled out. However, we do not propose to give a finding on this possibility,
because no other tangible evidences have been led by the department with
regard to the previous consignment cleared. All the same, this gives support
to the Department's claim for keeping a watch over imports by U.K. Paint
Industries receiving goods under misdeclared description based on information,
which has led to this case. It is also not disputed that prior to the
detention of this consignment, some other consignments of U.K. Paints have
also been detained, one of which has also been adjudicated, as revealed by the
ld. counsel. The two parties to the verbal contract (as claimed by the
appellants) should be presumed to have free access verbally. It cannot
therefore be ruled out that M/s. U.K. Paints verbally alerting the suppliers
about the watch being kept by Bombay Customs over their imported consignments,
telling them to divert the goods to Kandla for clearance there or in any case
for not allowing the goods to land at Bombay. In pursuance of such a verbal
talk, the appellants apparently have been alerted and they started the
correspondence with the shipping line on 6-10-1992. The could have stopped the
goods at Singapore itself between 26-9-1992 to 28-9-1992 when the goods were
in transhipment from one vessel to another vessel for onward carriage to
Bombay, if their claim of wrong shipment or licence problem was genuine. Hence
we are led to believe that all is not well with the alleged bonafide of the
appellants and the entire transaction looks to be bereft of bonafides. Though
the Collector's findings leading to the same conclusion are somewhat on
different lines, we are led to the above line of thinking on carefully
appreciating the same set of evidences placed before the Collector as well as
before us.
(iv) There is also considerable force in the contention of Shri Mondal that
their earlier stand in the correspondences with the shipping line was that due
to licence problem, they are calling back the consignment. The Customs
Department sought for replies to their queries, when the appellants sought for
reshipment without stating any reason. At that time, they refused to give any
explanation. Only at a belated stage and apparently on legal advice they put
forward the theory of wrong shipment. Had it been a case of wrong shipment,
they would have, in the first instance pleaded this not only before the
shipping line but also sent an intimation to Bombay Customs explaining the
position, seeking for allowing reshipment. Their refusal even to explain the
reasons while claiming reshipment before Customs also hits at their claim of
bonafides. Only subsequently, when they found that the goods have been
detained for examination, they apparently have come forward with this theory,
on legal advice. The ld. Counsel's plea that both explanations are two sides
of the same coin does not convince us, especially when we find the coin itself
is a counterfeit one, not being acceptable by looking into either side.
6.3 With this detailed analysis on their alleged claim of bonafide wrong
shipment against verbal contract, we now proceed to look into the five
propositions put forth by the ld. counsel.
7.1 Proposition (1) : Character of goods being in transit and not for import
into India, there is lack of jurisdiction for confiscating the goods.
Main thrust of the argument of Shri Nankani on the proposition is that since
the appellants have revised their contract with the shipping line by
surrendering the Bill of Lading and by giving a guarantee letter to retain the
goods on board the vessel and to bring back to Singapore, even before the
vessel arrived at Bombay on 12-10-1992 and I.G.M. filed on 15-10-1992, the
goods are to be treated as in transit notwithstanding the fact that the
shipping lines have deleted the entry in the manifest without placing it in
the list of same bottom cargo. Amendment of I.G.M. with the permission of
Customs would arise only after delivery of the manifest and hence no
permission is called for to delete the entry and to place it as same bottom
cargo for carriage to Singapore. This argument on the face of it is no doubt
attractive, but for the following glaring adverse factors. Here the admitted
position is that bill of lading for the consignment has been taken over by
Bombay Customs from Mr. Ghasis on 7-10 1992 for investigation and the shipping
lines and their agents are aware of this. Hence if they have chosen to delete
this item from the manifest, when the subject consignment meant for discharge
at Bombay is under customs investigation they cannot unilaterally alter the
manifest to be filed by deleting the item based only on the appellants request
for revision of their contract for carriage of goods. Irrespective of the
permission required to be obtained under Section 30(3) of the Customs Act,
there is a necessity in such a situation to get Customs clearance by the
shipping line. Be that as it may, even otherwise the itinerary of vessel in
that particular voyage ends up with Karachi. Hence the cargo with destination
Bombay is to be treated as sought to be retained for reshipment, which can be
done only with the permission of Bombay Customs whether it is offloaded or
retained. We therefore answer the first proposition against the appellants.
7.2 The second proposition is that the appellants are not a party to
conspiracy and the Collector's observation in Para 25 at page 62 of the order
based on certain detention is also not found to be in order in view of the
subsequent release of one of the consignments detained. This is a case of bona
fide wrong shipment. Hence the Apex Court's decision in Sampat Raj Dugar case
is applicable. Since we have already discussed elaborately on this
proposition, while considering their alleged claim of bona fide wrong
shipment, we do not deem it necessary to repeat them here. In the context of
our detailed analysis including the distinction made with regard to Sampat Raj
Dugar case, we are to answer this proposition also against the appellants.
7.3 The third proposition is that confiscation under Section 111(d), (f) and
(g) is not legally sustainable. As for 111(d) the ld. counsel mainly points
out that the goods are not prohibited and are allowed import under OGL and can
be imported by all. If that be so, there was no reason for them to plead
licence problem. This itself goes to show that they had sought to send the
goods against D.E.E.C. licence of U.K Paints. This is also their claim. Going
by this claim when the PVA misdeclared as STTP have landed and the importer
backs out because his licence does not cover this item, it attracts the
provisions of Section 111(d). It is not their claim that they shipped the
goods for stock and sale in India, because the goods are under OGL. Hence when
the goods have been loaded for discharge at Bombay and the subject goods are
subject to investigation by Indian Customs at Bombay, the shipping line could
not have unilaterally agreed for revising the contract for onward carriage to
Kandla or Karachi or back to Singapore, without a clearance from Customs. The
admitted position is that B/L for the consignment was taken over by Customs
from the shipping line Agents at Bombay on 7-10-1992. We cannot persuade
ourselves to agree to the proposition to treat these goods as in transit
either to Kandla or Karachi or back to Singapore; viewed from any angle. The
goods have come to Bombay correctly as per the bill of lading issued at
Keelung. If they are sought to be taken back, it will only be a case of
reshipment of goods, which the Customs might not allow, if the bonafides of
the claim are not satisfied.
We are able to reach the conclusion based on the admitted facts without even
taking the assistance of the citations made by either side for and against
proposition. There cannot be any dispute that contract for carriage of goods
is also required to be in respect of goods legally permissible to be transited
through or transported to a foreign country. When the legality of import of
the goods manifested for Bombay but later deleted on the appellants plea for
revision of shipping contract is under investigation and on such an
investigation, it is found that the goods carried were totally different from
the ones declared to be carried, such a revision cannot be binding on the
Customs Department. Their claim to find a buyer for PVA in Kandla is also not
convincing because no one would go on shifting the goods from one port to
another and make a bid to find a suitable buyer. In the international trade,
goods are shipped normally based on firm contract and not sent on a fishing
expedition to find a buyer after their shipment and that too prepaying the
freight. Hence viewed in this context, the goods wrongly declared as STPP, but
on investigation found to be P.V.A., and disowned by the notified party in
India to whom they were claimed to be shipped under a duty free licence, are
goods attempted to be imported contrary to the prohibition. They therefore,
attract the provisions of Section 111(d). As for their liability to
confiscation under Section 111(f), in view of our findings with regard to
revising the contract with shippers being for non-bonafide reasons, the
deletion of the entry in the manifest at the instance of the appellants, was
to thwart the ongoing investigation into this import, after the goods have
reached Bombay. Hence in this context, the goods not figuring in the manifest,
cannot be dismissed as one of omission on the part of shipping line Agents.
Confiscation under Section 111(f) can well be justified in such a case. As
regards Section 111(g) we agree that the act of off-loading in this case was
on the direction of Customs. It is not the case of the Department that it was
unloaded by the master. Hence we would prefer to ignore this Section 111(g)
for confiscation of the goods.
7.4 Their fourth proposition is that fine for redemption for reshipment in any
case is excessive. Such a fine can only be nominal and cannot be adjudged on
the basis of profit margin in India, because the goods are to be reshipped to
a foreign country and not to be cleared for home consumption in India. We
agree that there is some force in this contention. But we find that there is
total lack of bonafides in this shipment of the goods with a false description
to facilitate their clearance against duty-free licence leading to huge
evasion of duty, apart from violating the prohibition. In view of this overt
act in deliberate misdeclaration, as held by us in our detailed analysis, even
if we do not adopt the margin of profit for fixing the quantum of fine, it
should be deterrent for preventing repetition of such an attempt. While
accepting the proposition partly that levy of redemption fine for reshipment
cannot be adjudged in terms of margin of profit likely to be earned; because
the goods are not passed for home consumption in India, in a case like this,
we are of the view that the fine has to be commensurate and deterrent for
preventing such a deliberate act of misdeclaration of goods supplied by the
foreign supplier. He cannot be restored the goods on a nominal fine or without
fine. The quantum of fine should have regard to the gravity of the offence but
at the same time, it should be a real offer for redemption and not an illusory
offer, which remains on paper. If the confiscation had been absolute ( which
could well be justified in a case like this) such a consideration would be
redundant. But when the Collector has offered redemption, it has to be real
having regard to the value of the goods shipped. Hence such a fine for re-
export should not exceed the c.i.f value of the goods, which is reported to be
Rs. 52 lakhs. Allowing a margin for the likely expenses towards detention
charges etc. we would deem it proper to reduce the fine to Rs. 47 lakhs only.
Strictly speaking, even the allowance for detention charges (which are their
own making) is not called for; but is given only to make the offer realistic.
7.5 On the last and fifth proposition, challenging the jurisdiction of
Collector under the Customs Act for imposing penalty on a foreigner for acts
done abroad, when the Customs Act extends only within India, I, speaking for
myself, have the following views to express:
(i) Customs Act, 1962, as per the statement of objects and reasons for
enactment, is an act to consolidate and amend the law relating to customs. The
essential function of Customs in any country is to clear the goods for import
or export of goods having regard to the prohibition and restrictions
applicable in that country and to levy and collect duties of customs on such
goods as may be imposed from time to time. Viewed in this context, Customs Law
can be construed to be one dealing with customs clearance of goods and not of
persons. It mainly deals with goods; but when persons seeking to clear the
goods in contravention of the provisions of the law, they attract penal
provisions. Only in this context, Section 112 or 114 are to be viewed. Hence,
against this background, the provisions of Section 1(2) stating that it
extends to the whole of India, is required to be interpreted. This provision
can be held to be applicable to goods imported into or exported from India.
When such goods imported into India offend the provisions of the Customs Act
by an act of commission or omission deliberately done abroad by a foreigner,
he cannot escape the mischief of the penal provisions. The question to be
looked into is whether the goods have come into India including territorial
waters of India and whether any act of omission or commission rendering the
goods liable to confiscation and in that act of omission or commission,
whether any foreign hand or Indian hand aids or abets such an act be it from
abroad or in India, a person, irrespective of nationality or place of
commission of such an abetment, he would render himself liable to penalty, so
long as such an act results in confiscation of the goods on the soil of India.
(ii) Though a case law cited by the ld. counsel decided by the South Regional
Bench by a Single Member takes a contrary view, the issue appears to have not
been considered in the above perspective and no such arguments appear to have
been advanced before that Bench. Even the law of England recognises that where
offence initiated abroad terminates in England, the person initiating the
offence though abroad can be tried in England.
(iii) The special provision made for extra territorial jurisdiction in certain
Acts like I.P.C. or F.E.R.A. are for specific purposes. In the case of trial
by courts, the persons to be tried are to be physically produced in the court
of law before commencement of trial. If they are abroad or they are
foreigners, they are to be secured by extradition proceedings. The statute
must enable the Government to initiate such proceedings by conferring
jurisdiction to the courts beyond the territory of India. In the case of
adjudication under the Customs Act, the person, even if he resides abroad, can
be issued the Show Cause Notice under Section 124 for the acts committed
resulting in confiscation of goods under Customs Act. After following the laid
down procedure under Section 124, he can be imposed a penalty. The question is
only that of recovery of penalty. It is likely that in many cases, where no
tangible property is held in India, penalty imposed could not be recovered.
But on that ground, I cannot subscribe to the view that Customs Act per se is
not applicable to foreigner or will be applicable only, if he is physically
present in India, while committing the offence or he cannot be penalised for
acts of omission or commission done abroad rendering the goods liable to
confiscation in India.
(iv) In F.E.R.A. specific provisions are made for conferring extra territorial
jurisdiction because it is mainly intended for repatriation of earnings abroad
by resident Indians. Hence stashing away such earnings abroad by resident
Indian has to be tackled in the proceedings extending to such money held
abroad. Hence special provisions were called for conferring extra-territorial
jurisdiction in that Act.
(v) In this case, in view of our findings that the appellants have despatched
the goods knowingly under wrong description, penalty could well be justified.
But I find that the department have not carried the investigation to logical
conclusions to pin down M/s. U.K. Paints or the person behind import against
whom they had information and hence consignments were kept under their watch.
They have been let off only on the basis of their letter that they have no
concern with the goods. No investigation either in regard to their past import
or with regard to their present import seems to have been done. Hence, I would
not like to project a view abroad that we are only harsh with foreigners and
let off the Indian collaborators, who are the main beneficiary. This is not
the image to be projected. In this view of the matter, though I would not like
to accept the theory that the Collector has no jurisdiction for imposing
penalty, I would deem it proper to remit the penalty on the appellants.
8\. While on the question of penalty, I would also like to add a suggestion.
Deliberate mis-declaration of the export goods before Taiwan Customs (or for
that matter before any Customs) would be an offence punishable under Taiwan
Customs Law. The appellants are held by us as having knowingly misdeclared the
description of the goods exported to India. They, on their own, without any
knowledge of Taiwan Customs, appear to retrieve the goods and keep them in
Singapore. Hence, I would deem it proper that Indian Customs should inform the
Taiwan Customs of the results of investigation against the appellants, for
such action as deemed necessary by the Customs authorities in Taiwan rather
than taking upon ourselves the act of reforming their citizens.
9\. We have considered the citations made by us and discussed some of them in
our findings. To set at rest any possible doubts on this score, we would also
give below the gist of our consideration of these citations, not specifically
covered by our earlier discussion.
(i) 1990 (48) E.L.T. 481 (SC) -.British India Steam Navigation Ltd v. Shanmuga
Vilas Cashew Industries. This decision relates to interpretation of the B/L in
the context of the Indian Carriage of Goods by Sea Act and the jurisdiction of
the courts in dispute between the shipper and the carrier. In this decision,
B/L is held to be the primary evidence regarding receipt of goods by carrier
and when it is not repudiated, by either of the two contracting parties, it
was held by the Apex Court that the High Court ought not to have accepted the
submission of the first respondent that some clause in the B/L offends the
provision of Carriage of Goods by Sea Act. In the case before us it is pleaded
that original B/L was surrendered to the shipping line and the contract was
sought to be amended for withholding discharge at Bombay by mutual agreement
between the two parties and hence the goods are to be regarded as in transit.
Our analysis indicates that even if it is assumed that both the parties have
agreed as above, when the goods as per the W/L have reached the destination
and the said B/L has been taken over for investigation by Customs, unilateral
amendment of B/L without clearance by Customs is not binding on Customs
Department, more so when no such revised Bill of Lading has been issued for
reshipment of goods from Bombay to Singapore (via) Karachi before the vessel
entered the territorial waters of India.
(ii) A.I.R. 1971 SC 1898 - Giant Mahtani v. State of Maharashtra 1984 (18)
E.L.T. 21 (Tribunal) M/s. Vikas Watch Mfg. Industries. This decision is about
appreciation of evidence and known principle that prosecution must prove the
offence beyond doubt. We have, held on proper appreciation of the evidences
particularly from their own admission and in the light of the explanations
furnished to Customs in the form of fax message that the appellants have no
evidence for purchase of STPP at Taiwan, which they contracted to supply and
hence what has been acquired by them and supplied was only P. V. A. knowingly
under wrong description. This is not a case built on suspicion but on careful
consideration of their own explanation. The other citation is also on
appreciation of evidence holding that negative evidence in examination reports
cannot be conclusive. However in this case, when the goods are claimed to have
been shipped wrongly and the verbal contract was to supply STPP; we have held
that existence of such a verbal contract and their plea of wrong shipment are
to be established by them, since this is their claim and explanation and such
a claim was found to be hollow based on their own explanation.
(iii) Other citations relating to allowing re-export without fine have been
considered already in our findings at the appropriate place. In all these
decisions, the underlying principle, which runs through, is the absence of
malafides on the part of shippers, which is absent in the case of the
appellants before us.
(iv) (Citation made by Shri Mondal) - A.I.R. 1984 SC 667 Gramophone Co. of
India v. Birendra Bahadur Pande. Though this decision is in the context of
Copyright Act, it is with regard to import of goods violating copyrights for
transist to Nepal. The Apex Court held that the word 'import' would convey not
only import for commerce in India but also for transit to Nepal. Though this
has some relevance to the issue before us, since it is in the context of
import of goods for transit to a land locked state under Indo-Nepal treaty, we
could not draw much assistance.
(v) AIR 1971 (SC) 293 : Shri Md. Omer v. Collector of Customs, Calcutta : In
this decision, the Suprme Court have held that prohibition would also include
restriction, subject to which the goods are cleared. In this case before us,
since the goods are claimed to have been shipped against D.E.E.C. licence as
per verbal contract and the goods supplied are P.V.A. not sought to be cleared
by the licence holder, its import is prohibited, especially when the
appellants's claim is not one of supply of goods to India for stock and sale.
Hence we accept the case law to be relevant for considering the applicability
of prohibition.
(vi) The other two citations : Radhakrishna Bhatia v. Union of India -1984
E.C.R. 497 (SC), State of Maharashtra v. Mayor Hans George \- AIR 1965 (SC)
722 made by Shri Mondal relate to the jurisdiction for imposing penalty. These
are not directly on the issue before us. Only the Single Member decision of
South Regional Bench in the case of Kunhamed cited by Shri Nankani was found
to be direct on the issue, on which my views have been set out already.
10A. In the result, while upholding the order of confiscation and allowing
redemption on payment of fine for re-export, we reduce the fine to Rs. 47
lakhs (rupees forty seven lakhs only). Option is to be exercised within two
months from the date of receipt of this order, failing which the Department is
at liberty to dispose of the goods in accordance with law. Penalty imposed by
the Collector on the appellants is remitted.
P.K. Desai, Member (J)
11\. I have the privilege of going through the order as proposed by my Learned
Brother R. Jayaraman. Though I am in agreement with the final conclusion that
the goods are liable to confiscation, but re-export be permitted and also
agree to fixing of the fine amount to Rs. 47.00 lakhs and that no personal
penalty be imposed, and as such, what follows need not be taken as dissenting
order, I have not been able to persuade myself to endorse to all what has been
observed by my learned brother, and hence, what follows is my approach to the
appeal.
12\. The case history and the arguments advanced on both the sides have been
dealt with at length in the order as proposed by my learned Brother and does
not call for any repetition.
13\. What is strikingly surprising, is that the departmental authorities have
accepted the say of M/s. U.K. Paints that they are not concerned with the
subject consignment, as gospel truth and have not made them the party to the
adjudication proceedings, though some of the facts are glaringly staring
against them. Undisputedly the subject consignment is in their name, and the
plea of the appellants is that the consignment was despatched in view of the
oral order/contract. Thus existence of contract (even if oral) is pleaded, and
no effort seems to have been made to probe in depth in that regards. Further,
even in the first Telex dated 6-10-1992 from the appellants, it is mentioned
that "due to import licence problem", the consignment was required to be
diverted. The licence problem is always at the consignee's end and it could
only be they, who, aware of the contents of the consignment coupled with
investigation already going on in relation to their other import, must have
communicated to the suppliers, the probability of the checking of this
consignment, landing them in some difficulty. From the record, it is seen that
M/s. U.K. Paints were working under DEEC Passbook scheme, and could not have
imported P.V.A. thereunder, even though during the said Policy Period, P.V.A.
was importable under OGL, and it could only be they who, having contrived to
import PVA under misdeclaration as STPP, could land themselves into trouble.
If the despatch was without their connivance, there could be no need to be
panicky about it and to prevail upon the suppliers to make such desperate
attempts to divert the consignment. The supplier would have known of the
apprehended danger only if they were informed of such licensing problem by the
consignee. This clearly indicates that the consignees not only were the privy
to the contract, but were fully aware of what was being sent to them under
misdeclaration. Some correspondence must have been exchanged before 6-10-1992.
However, no indepth investigation seems to have been done in that regards. It
is also established that the goods were sent under misdeclaration, and there
would have been an evasion of duty to a substantial extent, and the
beneficiary would only be the consignee. Thus M/s. U.K. Paints, as Indian firm
located in India, ought to have been the prime suspect, but regretably, the
investigating agency have not taken steps to further probe into the matter,
exposing them to a legitimate criticism of overlooking what was obvious, and
permitting the main culprit to go unscathed, have bounced upon a foreign
supplier, who in all probability, only followed the instructions from the
Indian firm, whose unconvincing stand could also have put the right thinking
person to an alert and make detailed probe at consignee's end. We as the
Appellate Tribunal, have, however, merely to assess the situation as is
projected in the adjudication proceedings and can do no more than feel sorry
over the position.
13A. The appellant has come forward with the defence that the consignment was
erroneously despatched and that there was a mistake on their part. One however
fails to appreciate as to how such a type of mistake in despatching such a
huge quantity could take place. There is no evidence whatsoever brought on
record how such mistake came to occur and if such mistake occurred, how and
when it come to be detected. The consignment had already been shipped from the
port of despatch on 21-9-1992 and was even transhipped at Singapore between
26-9-1992 to 28-9-1992 and it is obvious that if at all there was any bonafide
mistake and such a huge quantity of different item had gone, it would not have
been taken them much time to detect the same. The very fact that they have not
detected such alleged mistakes even within a week after the despatch leads to
presume that there was no mistake. Had then they all of a sudden realised the
mistake, when the consignment was on the high seas and there was no scope for
verification, remains a mysterious one, and only probable explanation is that
both the consignor and consignee having known the contents, and the consignee
having realised the probable detection, continued to raise a false plea of
wrong despatch, and that too at a much later stage, as the telex dated
6-10-1992 does not even whisper about wrong despatch, though ordinarily, if
what is now pleaded was true, the same would have been clearly projected. The
theory of mistake in despatch therefore sounds highly inconvincing. Even the
subsequent defences raised by the appellants also do not corroborate their
plea of wrong despatch.
14\. Some legal issues have been raised, of the nature that, because the
consignment was deleted from IGM, and was, by the time the ship carrying the
same entered into Indian Territorial waters, taken as a transit cargo, and
hence there was no import as contemplated under the Customs Act, 1962, and as
such not liable to confiscaton under the provisions of the said Act.
15\. Vide Section 2(23) of the Customs Act, import means bringing any goods
into India from outside India, and as such any goods which are brought into
Indian' territorial waters are deemd to be imported into India and whatever is
imported into India, becomes subjected to applicability of the provisions of
the Customs Act, 1962, and all other allied enactments. Visualising the
difficulty that could arise for those carriages of goods which touch various
countries and carry goods for each one of them, for such of the goods which
enter Indian territory but are not meant to be off-loaded, specific provisions
have been made in Chapter VIII of the Customs Act, 1962, and vide Section 53
of the Act, such goods have to be specifically declared in the import manifest
as for transit in the same vessel or aircraft. This type of declaration is
made mandatory under the rules, and non-compliance thereof, could lead to hold
that the goods were not the bonafide in transit goods. Here, though the
subject goods, though initially consigned for landing at Bombay, and included
in the Import General Manifest for Bombay, but subsequently deleted therefrom,
were not entered into the same bottom cargo declaration and unless and until
that is done, the cargo could not get the benefit of Section 53 of the Act. It
is also significant to note that the ship carrying the subject consignment was
on its voyage which was to terminate at Karachi via Bombay, It did not and
could not have any cargo for Singapore from where the voyage had originated.
Even assuming that some extraordinary circumstances had developed and the
entire consignment was to be taken back to Singapore, then the Customs
officials at Bombay ought to have been pre-informed of the exigencies that
developed during the voyage. Here that it is not done, nor the said
consignment is entered into declaration for same bottom cargo, and mere
deletion thereof from Import General Manifest for Bombay, cannot be construed
to mean that the subject cargo was meant to be "in transit" cargo. As per the
provisions of the Customs Act, the subject cargo would become an import cargo,
and could justifiably be ordered confiscation, as soon as it enters the Indian
territorial waters.
16\. The issue as to the jurisdiction of the Collector to adjudicate upon and
to order confiscation as also to impose personal penalty has to be examined
from two different angles, one in relation to the goods, and second in
relation to the party,
17\. So far as the goods are concerned, the confiscation is ordered vide
Section 111 of the Act, and the powers invested thereunder have been exercised
in relation to the goods found within the Indian territorial waters and also
within his own territorial jurisdiction. The goods are held to be not same
bottom cargo, and hence have to be taken as brought in contravention of the
provisions of the Customs Act, and allied laws, as also the relevant policy
provisions, and with goods being physically lying within the jurisdiction of
the concerned Collector and are held as liable to confiscation vide Section
111 of the Customs Act, the jurisdiction of the Collector for passing any
order in relation to such goods cannot be challenged and the objection raised
therefore cannot be sustained.
18\. It however requires to be considered as to whether personal penalty vide
Section 112 of the Customs Act, could be imposed on the appellants, situated
in Taiwan, for any act done by them in that country. Undisputedly that firm
has no branch in India. It is also not on record that the same is owned by an
Indian citizen. The issue, therefore, would be whether the Collector has the
jurisdiction, while exercising powers under the Customs Act, 1962.
19\. When Brother R. Jayaraman has also proposed that the penalty imposed on
the appellant vide Section 112 of the Act be set aside, the issue remains to
be only academic for this matter. However, because he has observed that in his
considered opinion the Collector has powers to impose such penalty to which I
am unable to endorse, I am placing my own views on the issue.
20\. The appellants are the foreign firm, having no branch in India and none
of acts have been committed by them within the Indian territory.
21\. The Supreme Court have in British India Steam Navigation Co. v.
Shanmughavilas Cashew Industries, 1990 (48) E.L.T. 481 (SC) while dealing with
Private International Law, however made general observations as to the extent
of applicability of the statutes enacted by the Indian Parliament and have
observed:
"In general, a statute extends territorially, unless a contrary is stated,
throughout the country and will extend to the territorial waters and such
places as intention to such places is shown."
They have further observed :-
"Without anything more, Indian statutes are ineffective against foreign
property and foreigners outside jurisdiction."
22\. As because of afflux of time, the old journals are not available, but as
is discussed in the commentary under Section 4 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860,
in the books, "The Indian Penal Code 26th Edition 1987, by Ratanlal and
Dhirajlal [and revised by (now late) Hon. Mr. Justice M. Hidayatulla, the
former Chief Justice of India] in Musst Kishan Kaur (1878 ) PR No. 20 of 1878
and Jameson (1896) 2 QB 425, it is held that the acts of a foreigner committed
by him in territory beyond the limits of India do not constitute an offence
against Penal Code and consequently, a foreigner cannot be held criminally
responsible under the code by any Tribunal in India for acts committed by him
beyond its territorial limits and in Pirtai (1873) 10 BHC (Cr. C) 356 and Raj
Bahadur (1918) PR No. 23 of 1918, it is further held that a foreign subject
resident in a foreign territory instigating the commission of an offence
which, in consequence, is committed in Indian territory, is not amenable to
jurisdiction of an Indian court if the instigation has not taken place in
India.
23\. The Ld. SDR has however referred to an article, written by Hon. Mr. V.T.
Raghavachari, the Ex-Member of this Tribunal, as published in 1993 (64) E.L.T.
- A128, where the ld. author has expressed the view, by referring to
Halsbury's Law of England, and certain judicial pronouncements of the courts
in England, that penalty could be imposed. It may be observed that the said
article has been published as a reaction to the order of the South Regional
Bench of the Tribunal in C.K. Kunammed v. Collector of Central Excise &
Customs, 1992 (62) E.L.T. 146 (Tri.) where the Single Member Bench has held
that the Collector of Customs is not competent to try any person in respect of
something committed in a foreign country. It may however be noted that the
decisions given by the courts in England are based on the common law, whereas
in India, the laws are codified and framed by Parliament and there could be no
laxity availabe to go beyond what has been codified.
24\. No distinction can also be drawn between the penal law of the land and
other laws and that they all stand on the same footing so far as their
applicability is concerned. The requirement of presence of the accused person
at the time of trial, is merely a procedural requirement and is not interwoven
in the statutes so as to differentiate the Penal Code from any other
enactments of the Parliament.
25\. The Customs Act, 1962, in Section 1(1) thereof specifically mentions that
it shall extend to whole of India. No provision exists anywhere in the Act, to
enlarge its applicability to the area beyond the territory of India.
Significantly while enacting on allied Act namely Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act, 1973, a special provision is made in Section 1(3) of the Act that it
would apply to all citizens of India outside India and to branches and
agencies outside India of companies or body corporate registered or
incorporated in India. Thus, by special provisions, the said Act is made
applicable to the persons residing outside India. Similar provisions however
are not found in the Customs Act, 1962. Section 4 of the Indian Penal Code,
also provides for extra-territorial jurisdiction to a limited extent and
provides a clear indication that for making the provisions of Indian statute
applicable to the persons outside the Indian territory specific provisions
must exist in the Act itself and if such provisions are not incorporated in
the Act, no action could be taken against a person/party outside the Indian
territory.
26\. Decisions of the Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra v. Mayer Hans
George AIR 1965 Supreme Court 722, will not be relevant here, as in the said
case, the foreign national was within the Indian territory, and has
contravened the provisions of law while in India.
27\. The terminatory theory also may not strictly be applicable in such cases.
What the appellants have done, may, at the best be taken as an act of abetment
in relation to contravention intended by the consignee and their abetment was
complete as soon as the goods were despatched. Their subsequent attempts to
retrieve the goods may render them liable to any other financial liability in
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
setting aside the order imposing personal penalty to which I endorse, there is
no reason to refer the matter to the third Member on this ground.
31\. In the result, I agree with the operative portion of the order as
proposed by my Learned Brother.
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
also the markings and other particulars as given in the Bill of lading. The
goods are declared to be of Taiwanese origin. The destination port as per B/L
is Bombay. The individual bags containing the material also bore the labels
S.T.P.P. (Lot No. 05) - (Specimen of label given at page 46 of paper book
filed by the S.D.R.). The vessel M.V. Paithoon carrying this cargo arrived in
Bombay on or about 12-10-1992. The agents of the vessel prepared the Import
General Manifest and delivered to Customs through the main agents M/s. Samrat
Shipping Ltd. In the said manifest, the cargo in question was figuring at item
No. 79 but found deleted, though the total of the items remained the same for
discharge at Bombay and this item was also not figuring in the list of items
as same bottom cargo.
2(2) It, therefore, appeared to the Department that though the cargo as per
the B/L and the manifest prepared was meant for discharge at Bombay and
remained on board the vessel arrived at Bombay, the deletion of this item was
made to make it appear that the cargo was not meant for discharge at Bombay.
Information was earlier received by the C.I.U. of Bombay Customs that M/s.
U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi and some other firms closely connected with
them were indulging in unauthorised import of chemicals and petrochemical
items by misdeclaration of description and value and hence they were keeping
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
also the markings and other particulars as given in the Bill of lading. The
goods are declared to be of Taiwanese origin. The destination port as per B/L
is Bombay. The individual bags containing the material also bore the labels
S.T.P.P. (Lot No. 05) - (Specimen of label given at page 46 of paper book
filed by the S.D.R.). The vessel M.V. Paithoon carrying this cargo arrived in
Bombay on or about 12-10-1992. The agents of the vessel prepared the Import
General Manifest and delivered to Customs through the main agents M/s. Samrat
Shipping Ltd. In the said manifest, the cargo in question was figuring at item
No. 79 but found deleted, though the total of the items remained the same for
discharge at Bombay and this item was also not figuring in the list of items
as same bottom cargo.
2(2) It, therefore, appeared to the Department that though the cargo as per
the B/L and the manifest prepared was meant for discharge at Bombay and
remained on board the vessel arrived at Bombay, the deletion of this item was
made to make it appear that the cargo was not meant for discharge at Bombay.
Information was earlier received by the C.I.U. of Bombay Customs that M/s.
U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi and some other firms closely connected with
them were indulging in unauthorised import of chemicals and petrochemical
items by misdeclaration of description and value and hence they were keeping
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
also the markings and other particulars as given in the Bill of lading. The
goods are declared to be of Taiwanese origin. The destination port as per B/L
is Bombay. The individual bags containing the material also bore the labels
S.T.P.P. (Lot No. 05) - (Specimen of label given at page 46 of paper book
filed by the S.D.R.). The vessel M.V. Paithoon carrying this cargo arrived in
Bombay on or about 12-10-1992. The agents of the vessel prepared the Import
General Manifest and delivered to Customs through the main agents M/s. Samrat
Shipping Ltd. In the said manifest, the cargo in question was figuring at item
No. 79 but found deleted, though the total of the items remained the same for
discharge at Bombay and this item was also not figuring in the list of items
as same bottom cargo.
2(2) It, therefore, appeared to the Department that though the cargo as per
the B/L and the manifest prepared was meant for discharge at Bombay and
remained on board the vessel arrived at Bombay, the deletion of this item was
made to make it appear that the cargo was not meant for discharge at Bombay.
Information was earlier received by the C.I.U. of Bombay Customs that M/s.
U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi and some other firms closely connected with
them were indulging in unauthorised import of chemicals and petrochemical
items by misdeclaration of description and value and hence they were keeping
watch over receipt of such consignments. As these consignments manifested for
discharge at Bombay with consignees M/s U.K. Paint Industries but the item was
found deleted in the manifest filed with Customs, the Customs Department
requested the master of the vessel to unload the above six containers at
Bombay (vide letter dated 12-10-1992 of A.C., Customs, Bombay). The master of
the vessel in his letter dated 14-10-1992 confirmed the presence of these six
containers said to contain S.T.P.P. and indicated that he would be discharging
them at Bombay, since he had no communication with any party with regard to
change of destination of the said cargo.
2(3) On 19-11-1992, the appellants sent a letter to the Collector of Customs,
Bombay seeking permission to allow reshipment of this consignment of six
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
of this consignment through Keelung Customs, the same description is given as
also the markings and other particulars as given in the Bill of lading. The
goods are declared to be of Taiwanese origin. The destination port as per B/L
is Bombay. The individual bags containing the material also bore the labels
S.T.P.P. (Lot No. 05) - (Specimen of label given at page 46 of paper book
filed by the S.D.R.). The vessel M.V. Paithoon carrying this cargo arrived in
Bombay on or about 12-10-1992. The agents of the vessel prepared the Import
General Manifest and delivered to Customs through the main agents M/s. Samrat
Shipping Ltd. In the said manifest, the cargo in question was figuring at item
No. 79 but found deleted, though the total of the items remained the same for
discharge at Bombay and this item was also not figuring in the list of items
as same bottom cargo.
2(2) It, therefore, appeared to the Department that though the cargo as per
the B/L and the manifest prepared was meant for discharge at Bombay and
remained on board the vessel arrived at Bombay, the deletion of this item was
made to make it appear that the cargo was not meant for discharge at Bombay.
Information was earlier received by the C.I.U. of Bombay Customs that M/s.
U.K. Paint Industries, New Delhi and some other firms closely connected with
them were indulging in unauthorised import of chemicals and petrochemical
items by misdeclaration of description and value and hence they were keeping
watch over receipt of such consignments. As these consignments manifested for
discharge at Bombay with consignees M/s U.K. Paint Industries but the item was
found deleted in the manifest filed with Customs, the Customs Department
requested the master of the vessel to unload the above six containers at
Bombay (vide letter dated 12-10-1992 of A.C., Customs, Bombay). The master of
the vessel in his letter dated 14-10-1992 confirmed the presence of these six
containers said to contain S.T.P.P. and indicated that he would be discharging
them at Bombay, since he had no communication with any party with regard to
change of destination of the said cargo.
2(3) On 19-11-1992, the appellants sent a letter to the Collector of Customs,
Bombay seeking permission to allow reshipment of this consignment of six
relation to those goods but could not be construed as acts done in furtherance
to the abetment done in relation to the contravention of the Customs laws in
India, so as to extend their penal liability in that regards. The act on their
part, which could render them liable to penal action, if committed in India,
is deemed to have ended as soon as they despatched the goods.
28\. Thus, with Customs Act, 1962 having force only within the whole of India,
and with no provisions incorporated therein to invest any extra territorial
jurisdiction, and with codified law of the Indian Parliament having
applicability only within India, the powers of the Collector exercising his
jurisdiction under the provisions of the Customs Act, would not stand extended
to impose any personal penalty on the party/firm/company who are beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of India, for any acts done by them beyond the Indian
territory.
29\. As such, even on this ground, the personal penalty imposed on the
appellants would have been set aside.
30\. As indicated earlier, however, my Learned Brother has also proposed
