Madras High Court
Wockhardt Limited vs Aristo Pharmaceuticals Limited on 30 January, 1999
Equivalent citations: (1999) 2 MLJ 467
Author: C Shivappa
JUDGMENT C. Shivappa, J.
1\. These two appeals are directed against the order dated 2.6.1998, passed on
O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 on the Original Civil Jurisdiction of this Court,
vacating the ex parte interim injunction granted on 16.4.1998.
2\. Original Application No. 182 of 1998 was filed for grant of an ad-interim
injunction restraining the respondent and others from use or otherwise dealing
with the pharmaceutical preparations and substances under the trade mark
"SPASMO-FLEXON". O.A.No. 183 of 1998 was for grant of ad-interim injunction
restraining the respondent and others from passing-off the goods under the
trade-mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", on the ground that the same is identical or
deceptively/ phonetically similar to the appellant's trade-mark "SPASMO-
PROXYVON"
3\. In the suit, the trial Judge by an order dated 16.4.1998 granted ad-
interim injunction ex parte. Against the said order, the respondent herein
filed Applications No. 1650 to 1654 of 1998 to vacate the ex parte order
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
complete preparation of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug and to dispose of the
manufactured drugs and also the unsold drugs of the respondent pending
disposal of the applications. The learned single Judge allowed those
applications and vacated the ex parte order of interim injunction holding that
both the plaintiff and the defendant should maintain their respective
structure and colour of the drugs. Aggrieved by the said common order, the
appellant is now before us.
4\. The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that it adopted the trade mark
SPASMO-PROXYVON" in respect of its pharmaceutical products and the said trade
mark was also registered on 4.8.1977 under the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'The Act' for short)
and the registered number is 327582. The said trade mark was advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No. 706 at page No. 612, and the registration of the same
was notified in Trade Mark Journal No. 750 at page No. 450. Thereafter, it was
renewed upto 4.8.1998 and that fact was also notified in Trade Mark Journal
No. 1014 at page No. 763. Subsequently, the appellant/plaintiff had also
applied for renewal of the said trade mark for a further period of 7 years.
5\. The appellant came to know that the respondent herein has introduced a
pharmaceutical product under the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", a drug for
relieving pain, with almost same preparation and bearing a deceptive
similarity to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and, hence
there is every possibility for the public being mislead in buying it. In other
words, the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON" is deceptively and phonetically similar
to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and also having
colourable imitation that led to filing of suit and interlocutory applications
pertaining to use of trade marks and passing-off goods.
6\. The respondent-company has filed a counter-affidavit stating that it was
founded in or around the year 1972 and for the past 25 years, it has built up
a reputed business in the pharmaceutical industry and is presently among the
top 15 pharmaceutical companies in India. The respondent-Company has around 22
branches and more than 1000 stockists spread out all over India. The annual
sales turn over of the respondent-Company is presently around Rs. 160 crores.
In the year 1986, the respondent-Company adopted the invented word "FLEXON" as
a trade mark called a pain relieving drug meant for muscles in the human body.
The "FLEXON" drug of the respondent-Company gained huge success and sales have
been growing steadily over the past 12 years and presently having a turn over
of more than Rs. 10 crores. The trade mark "FLEXON" is associated exclusively
with the respondent-Company. It is submitted that in the field of medicine and
pharmaceuticals, it is a common and established practice that a part of the
brand name of a drug contains: (i) the name of the ailment; (ii) the name of
the organ which it treats or (iii) the principal ingredient. The above enables
the Doctor to associate a particular trade mark with an ailment, organ or
ingredient. Such descriptive portion of the trade mark is by its very nature,
generic, publici juris and common to the trade and no trader can claim
exclusive rights to such descriptive portion of an ailment, organ or
ingredient. It is further submitted that in October, 1997, the respondent-
Company decided to launch a new drug as a by-product of the main "FLEXON"
drug. While the "FLEXON" drug treats all muscular pains, the new drug would be
used to treat 'SPASMS' of the soft muscles of the stomach and intestines which
are one particular type of muscular ailment/pain. As per the common
established practice in the pharmaceutical industry, the brand name "SPASMO-
FLEXON" was therefore coined, by combining the generic/descriptive name of the
ailment, i.e., 'SPASM', along with the respondent-Company's famous brand name
"FLEXON". The new drug "SPASMO-FLEXON" was launched in October, 1997 and has
been sold continuously all over India thereafter. The drug "SPASMO-FLEXON" has
been well received in the market and by the doctors and chemists and patients
and sales have been steadily increasing and the drug has tremendous potential
for further growth and popularity in use.
7\. It is further submitted that more than 32 applications/registrations can
be seen in the Trade Marks Registry Records for trade marks starting with the
word "SPASMO". The above makes it clear that the brand name "SPASMO-FLEXON"
was coined and used in the normal course of established pharmaceutical
industry practice and not to cash in on the reputation of the 'SPASMO-
PROXYVON" drug of the petitioner. The use of the word "SPASMO" as a prefix
just indicates the type of ailment being treated which is common in the
pharmaceutical industry as a descriptive generic term and is "publici juris'
and open to use by all.
8\. The drug was launched in Bombay and all over India in October, 1997 and
there were good sales with steady increase month by month, which is reflected
at para 9 of the counter. From October. 1997 upto March, 1998, there is a
steady increase from Rs. 8,375 to Rs. 5,68,174 in November. 1997 and later
with variations in between Rs.2 and 3 lakhs till March, 1998. In April, 1998,
sales were temporarily stopped due to an exparte order of interim injunction
until the beginning of June, 1998 when it was vacated. Sales of "SPASMO-
FLEXON" drugs were thereafter resumed on an all India basis and for the past 2
1/2 months, have been enjoying good sales and demand all over India. The sales
in June and July, 1998 are given below:
June, 1998 - 74756 strips - Rs. 3,16,000 July, 1998 - 64443 strips - Rs.
2,73,000
9\. The grievance of the respondent is that the appellant obtained an ex parte
order of interim injunction by suppressing the material facts from the court.
The explanation is that the appellant and the respondent-Companies are both
based in Bombay and the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug was launched in October, 1997
more than six months before the filing of the suit. As a rival company, the
appellant was well aware of the launching of the drug, but still filed a suit
in Chennai six months after the launch of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" product in
Mumbai and had been attempting to make on a case that the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug
was seen at Chennai in March and April, 1998, whereas, to the knowledge of the
appellant, the drug was being widely sold in Bombay from October, 1997. It was
also contended that the appellant-Company deliberately suppressed the fact
that the brand name "FLEXON" had been used by the respondent for more than 10
years in relation to a pain relieving drug for muscles and that it was the
normal industry practice to add the word "SPASMO" as a prefix to indicate that
"SPASMO-FLEXON" is one of the species of the main drug "FLEXON". The main drug
"FLEXON" treats all muscular pains, whereas "SPASMO-FLEXON" towards only soft
muscular spasms of the stomach and digestive tracks. The appellant suppressed
the fact that it itself has a drug "PROXYVON" and another drug called "SPASMO-
PROXYVON", just like the respondent has a drug called "FLEXON" and "SPASMO-
FLEXON". Both the drugs involved are schedule H drugs, which cannot be sold in
retail except on a prescription of a medical practitioner and that such
medicine is supplied through the hands of skilled persons such as doctors and
chemists, who by their training, experience and by their knowledge render it
practically impossible for any deception or confusion to take place.
10\. The learned senior counsel Mr. C.A. Sundaram for the appellant contended
that, (1) the appellant has an exclusive statutory right by virtue of the
appellant being registered proprietor of the trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" to
the exclusion of all others; (2) the respondent's sale of its drug under the
name "FLEXON" prefixing the word "SPASMO" amounts to infringing the registered
trade mark of the appellant; (3) the reasoning that "SPASMO-FLEXON" is
phonetically and structurally not deceptive is solely on the basis of the
colour and physical appearance, because the composition of the drug or colour
or get-up would not arise where both marks are identical or deceptively
similar; (4) the word "SPASMO" is not a generic word or descriptive word and
in fact it is part of the registered trade mark; (5) the doctor's prescription
since lost its importance, both schedule and non-schedule drugs are now sold
without any such prescription and no weight age can be given to the contention
that since the goods are sold under doctor's prescription, no confusion would
arise; (6) the prescription written by doctors are often not decipherable and
when they are rendered in running hand, the rival marks would bear sufficient
similarity as to be likely to cause confusion or deception; (7) there is a
tendency among the medical practitioners to write the termination or suffix of
the drug prescribed by them with a flourish so that the first portion or
prefix of the drug prescribed is legible while the latter part is not so; and
(8) the basic dictum is that the mark as a whole has to be looked at and not
its parts.
11\. The learned senior counsel Mr. P. Chidambaram appearing for the
respondent contended that, (1) the offending mark is not deceptively similar
to the appellant's mark; (2) the word "SPASMO" is a generic word and it has no
inherent distinctiveness, it being a common English word found in the
dictionary over which none can claim monopoly and the word has become pub lid
juris; (3) There is no evidence for actual confusion and there is no visual
resemblance between the two marks; (4) The said medicines since sold on
doctor's prescription, there can be little likelihood of confusion; (5) The
two drugs visually and phonetically being different in colour and container,
it will not cause confusion in the mind of the public; (6) There are ever so
many products having common name, though close phonetically, have been
carrying on business and the appellant has selected only the respondent's
though there is no affinity of sound and resemblance with the trade name of
the defendant, and (7) the scope of the appellate court being limited to
interfere with discretionary orders of interlocutory nature, even if two views
are possible on the material placed before the trial court, a different view
may not justify interference with the trial court's exercise of discretion
12\. The point for consideration in these appeals is whether the offending
mark is identical or deceptively similar to the appellant's trade mark?
13\. To decide the above question, we have to incidentally deal with certain
aspects such as, (1) the exclusive statutory right of a registered proprietor
of the trade mark; (2) whether the word "SPASMO" is descriptive word or a
generic word? (3) Whether phonetically and structurally, on the basis of
colour and physical appearance, there is any deception, and (4) The importance
or otherwise of the doctor's prescription. These aspects have already been
considered by the Apex Court and various High Courts, including this Court and
a criteria has been laid down as to how these aspects have to be looked into.
In addition to these aspects, the scope of the appellate Court while dealing
with the discretionary orders of interlocutory nature.
14\. Under Section 2(j), "mark" includes a device, brand, heading, label,
ticket, name, signature, word, letter or numeral or any combination thereof.
Under Section 2(r), "registered trade mark" means a trade mark which is
actually on the register. The Register referred to in Section 6 shall be
divided into two parts called respectively Part A and Part B. The appellant's
mark is registered under 'A' Category. A trade mark shall not be registered in
Part A of the Register unless it contains or consists of atleast one of the
essential particulars mentioned in Sub-Clause (a) to (e) of Section 9(1).
Section 11(a) prohibits registration of certain marks, the use of which would
be likely to deceive or cause confusion. Section 12 prohibits registration of
identical or deceptively similar trade marks which is already registered in
the name of different proprietor in respect of the same goods or description
of goods. A mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark if
it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause
confusion as defined under Section 2(d). Section 28(2) gives to the registered
proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark
the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in
respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect
of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the Act. Section
31(1) inter alia provides that the registration of the trade mark shall be
prima facie evidence of the validity thereof. Section 29 of the Act prohibits
infringement of trade mark right in course of trade. A registered trade mark
is infringed by a person who, not being the registered proprietor of the trade
mark or a registered user thereof using by way of permitted use, uses in the
course of trade a mark, which is identical with, or deceptively similar to the
trade mark, in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade mark is
registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
taken as being used as a trade mark. Under Sub-section (2) of Section 29, in
an action for infringement of a trade mark, an injunction or other relief
shall not be granted, if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the
court that the use of the mark of which the plaintiff complains is not likely
to deceive or cause confusion.
15\. In American Home Products Corporation v. Mac. Laboratories Pvt. Limited
at para 36, it has been held that "the registration of a trade mark is prima
facie evidence of its validity. After the expiry of seven years from the date
of the registration, a trade mark is to be valid in all respects except in the
three cases set out in Section 32. The proprietor of an unregistered trade
mark whose mark is unauthorisedly used by another cannot, however, sue for the
infringement of such trade mark. His only remedy lies in bringing a passing-
off action, an inconvenient remedy as compared to an infringement action. In a
passing-off action, the plaintiff will have to prove that his mark has by user
acquired such reputation as to become distinctive of the plaintiff's goods so
that if it is used in relation to any goods of the kind dealt with by the
plaintiff, it will be understood by the trade and public as meaning that the
goods are the plaintiff's goods. In an infringement action, the plaintiff is
not required to prove the reputation of his mark.
16\. Since the basis of the infringement action is on the ground of likelihood
of deception, it is appropriate to refer the test as to what constitutes
deception. In Ruston & Honby Limited v. Z. Engineering Company , it was held
that, "the action for infringement is a statutory right. It is dependent upon
the validity of the registration and subject to other restrictions laid down
in Sections 30, 34, and 35 of the Act. On the other hand, the gist of a
passing-off action is that A is not entitled to represent his goods as the
goods of B, but it is not necessary for B to prove that A did this knowingly
or with any intent to deceive. It is enough that the get-up of B's goods has
become distinctive of them and that there is a probability of confusion
between them and the goods of A. No case of actual deception nor any actual
damage need be proved. In equity, however, Lord Cotteonham, L.C. in Millington
v. Fox (1838)3 My. & Cr. 338, held that it was immaterial whether the
defendant had been fradulent or not, in using the plaintiff's trade mark and
granted an injunction accordingly.... At para 7, it was held thus:
The two actions, however, are closely similar in some respects. As was
observed by the Master of the Rolls in Saville Perfumery Limited v. June
Perfect Limited (1941) 58 R.P.C. 147 at page 161:
The statute Law relating to infringement of trade marks is based on the same
fundamental idea as the law relating to passing-off. But it differs from that
law in two particulars, namely, (1) it is concerned only with one method of
passing-off, namely, the use of a trade-mark, and (2) the statutory protection
is absolute in the sense that once a mark is shown to offend, the user of it
cannot escape by showing that by something outside the actual mark itself he
has distinguished his goods from those of the registered proprietor.
Accordingly, in considering the question of infringment the courts have held,
and, it is now expressly provided by the Trade Marks Act, 1938, Section 4,
that "infringemnet takes place not merely by exact imitation but by the use of
a mark so nearly resembling the registered mark as to be likely to deceive. In
an action for infringement where the defendant's trade mark is identical with
the plaintiff's mark, the court will not inquire whether the infringement is
such as is likely to deceive or cause confusion. But where the alleged
infringement consists of using not the exact mark on the Register, but
something similar to it, the test of infringement is the same as in an action
for passing-off. In other words, the test as to likelihood of confusion or
deception arising from similarity of marks is the same both in infringement
and passing-off actions.
17\. The learned Counsel for the respondent contended that the word "SPASMO"
is an ordinary dictionary word in which no one has any right. The word "SPASM"
as per the Grolier International Dictionary-Vol. II, means "A sudden,
involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles". The word "FLEX" as
per the Concise Oxford Dictionary of Current English, Eighth Edition,, means
"bend (a joint, limb etc.) or be bent, move (a muscle) or (of a muscle) be
moved to bend a joint". In substance, both relates to muscular pain or a joint
pain. It is proper to name a product on an organ or ailment or two or three
ingredients combined together or otherwise the words is nonsensical. If the
argument of the respondent is accepted, it boils to that no word of general
import can be used as a trade mark. After seven years, a presumption arises
regarding the validity. As per Stedman's Medical Dictionary, 24th Edition,
SPASM (spasm) (G. Spasmos SPA) Spasmus. 1. An involuntary muscular
contraction; if painful, usually referred to as a cramp; if violent, a
convulsion. 2. Muscle s.; increased muscular tension and shortness which
cannot be released voluntarily and which prevent lengthening of the muslces
involved; s. is due to pain stimuli to the lower motor neuron. In the Concise
Oxford Dictionary of Current English, 8th Edition, Spasm means 1. a sudden
involuntary muscular contraction. 2. a sudden convulsive movement or emotion
etc. (a spasm of coughing). 3. (usu. foll, by of) colloq. a brief spell of an
activity. (ME f. OF spasm or L. Spasmus f. GK. Spasmos, spasma). Spasm has
different shades of meaning in the Chambers 20th Century Dictionary: Spasmo,
spasma, spasmos, k spasmodes are adjectives, meaning convulsion. In the
Webster's Third New International Dictionary, spasmo is an involuntary
abnormal contraction of muscle or muscle fibers or of a hollow organ.
Spasmodism, Spasmodist, Spasmogenic, Spasmolsis, Spasmoltic, Spasmophilia,
Spasmophilic, relate to spasmodic emotion, inducing spasm, relaxation of
muscle spasm, contraction of filament etc. "Flex" is also, according to
Webster's Third New International Dictionary, to move muscle so as to cause
flexion of a joint, to bend so as to form a fold or clasp, an act or instance
of flexing. In Chambers 20th Century Dictionary, the meaning of "flex is to
bend. The action of a flexor muscle. Flexion - a bend; a foldl the action of a
flexor muscle. The Concise oxford Dictionary of Current English, 8th Edition:
"Flex" means a joint; limb etc. move (a muscle) or (of a muscle) be moved to
bend a joint. Flexion - the act of bending or the condition of being bent esp.
of a limb or joint. According to The Grolier International Dictionary, Vol.1,
"Flexion" means, the act of bending, the condition of being bent (variant of
flection). "SPASMO PROXYVON" contains Dicyclomine hcl. and dextropropoxyphene.
"FLEXON" contains Ibuprofen and Paracetamol. Though basically, FLEXONH is a
medicine to treat a muscle contraction, that acts to flex a joint, aiding
spasmo. According to Dr. S.M. Bandukwala, "SPASMO FLEXON" contains Dicyclomine
Hydrocholoride and Paracetamol, whereas, "SPASMO PROXYVON" contains
Dicyclomine Hyderochloride, Paracetamol and Dextropropoxyphene. As evident,
"SPASMO PROXYVON" contains an additional ingredient named Dextropropoxyphene.
Dextropropoxyphene is a very powerful centrally acting pain killer. It is
reserved for managing severe painful conditions only. It is also important to
note that "SPASMO PROXYVON" is advocated for shorter periods only to avoid
risk of dependence and other unpleasant side effects." The products are
basically the same and are used for the same basic ailment. The only
difference is the efficacy of the appellant's product requiring more judicious
use as compared to the respondent's product where an overdose may not have
same consequences.
18\. It is not in dispute that the goods with the mark "SPASMO PROXYVON" are
sold throughout the length and breadth of the country and the mark had
acquired reputation. The appellant being one of the leading manufacturers of
the pharmaceutical preparations, invented and adopted the trade mark "SPASMO-
PROXYVON" in respect of treatment of certain ailments pertaining to spasms,
whereas, the respondent used the mark only from the year 1997. Turning to the
two marks, it is obvious that the beginning and ending of the two marks is
similar and indeed except for the letters ' PROXY' and 'FLEX', the two marks
are identical. On the first impression, it is obvious that there is every
likelihood of deception or confusion by the user of the mark of the
respondent. It is now well settled that the court while considering likelihood
of deception or confusion, must make allowance for imperfect recollection and
the effect of careless pronounciation and speech on the part not only of the
person seeking to buy under the trade description, but also of the shop
assistant ministering to that person's wants. It is not permissible to make a
meticulous comparison of the words, letter by letter and syllable by syllable
and the two marks must be taken as a whole to ascertain whether there is a
likelihood of deception or confusion. The principle that the marks must be
compared as a whole, is well settled and it is incumbent upon the court to
consider whether the totality of the proposed trade mark is such that it is
likely to cause deception or confusion or mistake in the mind of the person
accustomed to the existing trade mark.
19\. As laid down by the Supreme Court in P. Hoffman-La Roche & Co. Limited v.
Geoffrey Manners & Co. A.I.R. 1970 S.C. 2064, the marks must be compared as a
whole and it would not be right to take portion of the word and say that
because the portion of the word differs from the corresponding portion of the
word in the other case, there is no sufficient similarity to cause confusion.
The true test is whether a totality in a proposed trade mark is such that it
is likely to cause deception or confusion or mistake in the minds of persons
accustomed to the existing trade marks. The deception or confusion in such
cases would be of the public and not of an expert Doctor or a specialised
Chemist dealing in the medicinal preparations. One cannot ignore the fact that
when a mark likely to deceive or cause confusion is to be used by a person, he
will strive to find those who joined him in his design and an obliging Doctor
and a conniving Chemist will be the integral part of the design to practice
deception and cause confusion. The unwary purchaser, that is material for the
purpose of deciding whether the mark should be registered or not in view of
the provisions of Section 11 (a) of the Act.
20\. In Parle Products (P) Ltd. v. J.P. & Co. Mysore , the Apex Court took the
view that in order to come to the conclusion whether one mark is deceptively
similar to another, the broad and essential features of the two are to be
considered. They should not be placed side by side to find out if there are
any differences in the design and if so, whether they are of such character as
to prevent one design from being mistaken for the other. It would be enough if
the impugned mark bears such an overall similarity to the registered mark as
would be likely to mislead a person usually dealing with one to accept the
other if offered to him.
21\. This Court in P.L. Anwar Basha v. M. Natarajan , held thus:
I may at once point out that this kind of comparison is what is precisely
prohibited in Park Products (P) Limited v. J.P. and Co. (1973)2 S.C.J. 17,
where their Lordships of the Supreme Court have observed: "It is therefore
clear that in order to come to the conclusion whether one mark is deceptively
similar to another, the broad and essential features of the two are to be
considered. They should not be placed side by side to find out if there are
any differences in the design and if so whether they are of such a character
as to prevent one design from being mistaken for the other. It would be enough
if the impugned mark bears such an overall similarity to the registered mark
as would be likely to mislead a person usually dealing with one to accept the
other if offered to him.
22\. In Gopal Hosiery v. Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks , it was held that
the question whether a trade mark resembles another or not or it is likely to
deceive or cause confusion to the public is a question of fact to be decided
at a later stage. But before coming to such a conclusion, the court has to
take into consideration the surrounding circumstances, both phonetic and
visual resemblances, nature of the goods and all other relevant matters based
on certain particulars. It is true that the primary duty of the court is
towards the public and to maintain the purity of the Register. The object of
maintaining the trade mark register is that public should know whose goods
they are buying and with whom particular goods are associated. It is essential
therefore, that the Register should not contain trade marks which are
identical and which so closely resemble each other that an unwary purchaser
may be likely to be deceived by thinking that he is buying the goods of a
particular person or a particular firm or a particular industry, whereas he is
buying the goods of another person or firm or industry. The court has to
decide that itself, quite apart from the evidence of cases of actual confusion
or the opinions of experts as to the likelihood of confusion, as to the
inherent probability of the confusion. In making a decision on this question,
the Court has to take into consideration all the surrounding circumstances,
the extent of one resemblance, visual or phonetic, the nature of the market of
the goods, the character education, the general mental equipment of the
persons who are likely to purchase these goods and all other matters which are
relevant.
23\. In Mother Care U.K. Ltd., v. Penguin Books Limited 1998 R.P.C. 113, the
words "Mother Care"/"Other Care" came up for consideration. The words "Mother
Care" in the title of the book were not used as a trade mark or in a trade
mark sense; they were being used descriptively with the words "Other Care"
what the book was about. There was no serious issue to be tried on
infringement. The name "Mothercare" is made up of two common words in the
English Language, "mother" and "care". The name is not used in a strictly
descriptive sense as describing the business of the company, but it has a
descriptive flavour in that it creates at once in the mind of the reader or
hearer an impression of the sort of things that the business of Mothercare is
about. Descriptive or not, however, there is no doubt, that as a result of the
success of Mothercase, its name is now a household name and it has established
ample goodwill in the name to support a passing-off action, if for instance,
some third party were to seek to trade on the name of Mothercare within the
field of Mothercare's established activities. Mothercare has also registered
the word "Mothercare" as a trademark in very many classes which cover the
goods in which it deals, including books. The present action is founded on
alleged passing-off and alleged infringement of trade mark by the use of the
words "Mother Care Other Care". It stands to reason that a Trade Marks Act
would only be concerned to restrict the use of a mark as a trade mark or in a
trade mark sense, and should be construed accordingly. If descriptive words
are legitimately registered in Part A of the Register, there is still no
reason why other people should not be free to use the words in a descriptive
sense and not in any trade mark sense. Therefore, if a descriptive word is
used, in the sense, for spasmodic treatment, etc. it may not be in a trade
mark sense and he can use that word in a descriptive sense, but not as a
product name in a trade mark sense. In other words, cause, effect, ingredients
may be used to denote purpose, but the very word registered should not be used
without in a descriptive sense.
24\. In the matter of an Application by J. & P. Coats Limited for Registration
of a Trade Mark 1936 R.P.C. 355, it was held that any bona fide description of
the character or quality of his goods does not amount to infringement nor
interference with the registration of a trade mark. The descriptive name may
be distinctive and vice versa. But the question whether a word is or is not
capable of becoming distinctive of the goods of a particular maker is a
question of fact, and is not determined by its being or not being descriptive.
No registration under this Act shall interfere with... 'the use by any person
of any bona fide description of the character or quality of his goods';
clearly indicating that a registered trade mark may have as its essential part
words capable of being used descriptively. Having thus established that the
words having a direct reference to the character and quality of the goods, the
registry is not entitled to record any particular word as unsuitable for
registration by reason of the fact that it is outside any of the classes
enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (4) of Section 9. When once the words is
registered by user as a mark, the word has in fact become identified with the
goods by continuous user in connection therewith and has obtained an acquired
distinctiveness. It was held that, "further, I am of opinion that, if the word
"Sheen" is registered as a trade mark, such registration will not prevent any
rival trader from using the word in reference to the particular attribute of
glossiness possessed by his own machine twist, so long as he refrains from any
attempt to use it as distinctive of his goods; for example, such a trader
would be protected under Section 44, if he stated that his machine twist
possessed a fine "Sheen", for in that case the word would not be used in any
sense as a trade description."
25\. In Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo , the Apex Court has taken the view
that the overall similarity of the two composite words to be taken to decide
whether there is likelihood of deception or confusion. It has to be approached
from the point of view of an unwary purchaser of average intelligence and
imperfect recollection. The learned Judge supposed, split the name into its
component parts and consider the etymological meaning thereof or even consider
the meaning of the composite words as 'current of nectar' or 'current of
Lakshman'. He would go more by the overall structural and phonetic similarity
and the nature of the medicine he has previously purchased, or has been told
about, or about which has otherwise learnt and which he wants to purchase.
Where the trade relates to goods largely sold to illiterate or badly educated
persons, it is no answer to say that a person educated in the Hindi language
would go by the etymological or ideological meaning and see the difference
between 'current of nectar' and 'current of Lakshman'. 'Current of Lakshman'
in a literal sense has no meaning; to give it meaning, one must further make
the inference that the 'current of stream' is as pure and strong as Lakshman
of the Ramayana. An ordinary Indian Villager or townsman will perhaps know
Lakshman the story of Ramayana being familiar to him; but we doubt if he would
etymologise to the extent of seeing the So-called ideological difference
between 'Amritdhara' and 'Lakshmandhara'. He would go more by the similarity
of the two names in the context of the widely known medical preparation which
he wants for his ailments'. It was further held in paras 9, 10 and 11 thus:
We agree that the use of the word 'dhara' which literally means 'current or
stream' is not by itself decisive of the matter. What we have to consider here
is the overall similarly of the composite words, having regard to the
circumstances that the goods bearing the two names are medicinal preparations
of the same description. We are aware that the admission of a mark is not to
be refused, because unusually stupid people, "fools or idiots" may be
deceived. A critical comparison of the two names may disclose some points of
difference but an unwary purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect
recollection would be deceived by the overall similarity of the two names
having regard to the nature of the medicine he is looking for with a| somewhat
vague recollection that he had purchased a similar medicine on a previous
occasion with a similar name. The trade mark is the whole thing -the whole
word has to be considered. In the case of the application to register
'Erectics' (opposed by the proprietors of the trade mark 'Erector'), Farwell,
J. said in William Bailey (Birmingham) Ltd. 's Application (1935)52 R.P.C.
136.
I do not think it is right to take a part of the word and compare it with a
part of the other word; one word must be considered as a whole and compared
with the other word as a whole... I think it is a dangerous method to adopt to
divide the word up and seek to distinguish a portion of it from a portion of
the other word.
26\. In Ciba-Geigy Limited v. Grasslands Research Laboratories Limited, 1995
P.T.C. 251 following the earlier decisions, this Court held that Court need
not scan word as it would in a question comparation literaturm.
27\. In Durga Dutt Sharma v. N.P. Laboratories , the Apex Court held that
trade mark to be compared with that used by the appellant is the entire
registered mark, in the sense, "SPASMO-PROXYVON", but not the one omitting
"SPASMO".
28\. In Jagan Nath v. B.D. Karyalaya A.I.R 1975 Del. 149. at para 7, it was
held thus:
This being the law, it cannot be disputed that in an action for infringement
the plaintiff can succeed not only when he proves that the whole of his
registered trade mark has been copied but can also succeed if he shows that
the defendant's mark is similar to the plaintiff's mark as it would be
remembered by persons possessed of an average memory with its usual
imperfections or that its essential particulars or the distinguishing or
essential feature has been copied.
29\. In G.T.C. Industries Limited, Bombay v. I.T.C. Limited, Madras ,
referring to Parle Products v. J.P.& Co. Mysore ,A. Shanmugha Mudaliar v. A.
Abdul Kareem and Hiralal Parbhudas v. Ganesh Trading Co. , held that, "in
order to come to the conclusion whether one mark is deceptively similar to
another, the broad and essential features of the two are to be considered and
that it would be enough if the impugned mark bears such an overall similarity
to the registered mark as would be likely to mislead a person usually dealing
with one to accept the other if offered to him and that it is of no use to
note on how many points there is similarity and in how many others there is
absence of it.
30\. In Ciba-Geigy Limited v. Torrent Laboratories Pvt. Limited and Anr.
(1993)1 A.L.R. 18 the Gujarat High Court took to view that "It cannot be said
that in order to cause confusion or deception, the impugned mark should
contain the registered mark as a prefix or suffix. It is sufficient if it
forms an emphatic part of the impugned mark."
31\. Until the removal of the trade mark from the register, there is
presumption about the validity of the trade mark under Section 31(1) of the
Act. Deception can be caused even without the word as prefix or suffix.
Whereas it is used as a prefix, it is evident that the said common element,
namely, the word "SPASMO" would be more firmly fixed in the mind of the
customer, and more emphatic and highly distinctive because the preceding
letters 'P' and 'F' at times sounds phonetically nearer, and with the last two
letters' ON' being prominently common bears the marks of similarity and there
is every likelihood of causing confusion or deception. When a number of marks
all have a common element, may it be prefix, suffix or root, i.e., essential
part of the core of the mark, they come to be associated in the public mind as
indication of the same source, as "SPASMO". It is that which mislead or causes
deception or confusion. Though first syllable may be important in deciding
phonetic similarity, it is not always the rule that when first syllable
differs, there should be presumption that there is no similarity. The common
element has to be identified in the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark and if such common element is highly distinctive and is not just a
description or a commonly used word, the likelihood of deception or confusion
would be very much there, despite the fact that it may differ in similarity in
certain letters.
32\. Every word can be a trade mark. It may be a word of place, person,
animal, organ, object and it depends upon one s meaning and sentiment. The
contention that for ordinary dictionary words, no one has exclusive right, is
untenable. The word 'SPASMO' refers to a muscle or muscle fibers or of a
hollow organ or a contraction of muscle etc. SPASMINDON, SPASMODIC,
SPASMODISM, SPASMODIST, though may relate to several characteristics, but,
SPASMO, as such, has distinctiveness phonetically. Phonetically, visually and
structurally with the word "SPASMO" as prefix common in both, there is every
likelihood of deception or confusion. Taking the two marks as a whole, there
was very close similarity and there is every likelihood of deception or
confusion irrespective of the produce being sold on doctor's prescription.
33\. The learned senior counsel Mr. P. Chidambaram appearing for the
respondent submitted that the chances of deception or confusion are negligible
as the preparations of both are sold only on medical prescription. Sale of
drugs on medical prescription is merely one of the circumstances to determine
whether there is likelihood of confusion or deception and can by no stretch of
imagination be conclusive. The explanation is that the doctors in running hand
write the prefix and so long the similarity is there, there is every
likelihood of confusion. The prefix being the same, the first letter of the
drugs 'P' and 'F' though not phonetically too dissimilar, and the ending
letters 'ON' in both the drugs, may lead to confusion even in Doctor's
prescription while writing. The word 'SPASMO' being the same, phonetically and
identically bears a close resemblance that one can easily be mistaken for the
other. The word "SPASMO" occupies a prominent place at the top with a good
deal of similarity between the two. Any one who has a look at one of the
packets, may easily mistake the other if shown on another day as being the
same article treating the same disease. If one was not careful enough to note
the peculiar features regarding the ingredients, he might easily mistake the
defendant's product for the plaintiff's, if shown to him some time after he
had seen the plaintiff's. After all, an ordinary purchaser is not gifted with
the powers of observation of a Sherlock Holmes. The design of the capsule and
the tablet though not identical, but the word "SPASMO" gives an impression
that it resembles the plaintiff's mark and treats the same ailment, hence, can
be easily mistaken for the other. In a trade mark, it is not the product or
the design to be looked into, but the mark, as such, "SPASMO" will impress
with similarity, that too, when it is for the same ailment.
34\. The learned senior counsel Mr. P. Chidamabaram invited our attention to
the Indian Drug Review, Jan./Feb. 1998 Edn. At page 237, there are several
drugs coined with the word "SPASMO", viz., SPASMJZOL, SPASMOCIN, SPASMOCIN-
FORTE, SPASMO-PROSYVON, SPASMODOL FORTE, SPASMOLAR. It is his case that the
word "SPASMO" is a common generic name. The onus of proof of a common use is
on the person who wants to rely on it. He has to prove positively, because a
negative thing cannot be proved. Whoever may have used the word "SPASMO",
there is no material to show that such person had actually manufactured and
put the product to the market or even if it is put to the market, he may be a
small trader, hence, chasing may not be necessary. Just because such words are
there in other medicines, it does not mean that action is a must and inaction
disentitled him to take action, when infringed.
35\. The contention of the respondent is that the word "SPASMO" is a generic
word descriptive of the usage in the product and it has no inherent
distinctiveness and it being a common English word found in the Dictionary,
for treatment of muscular pains, over which none can claim monopoly and the
word has become publici juris. Whether it is descriptive or has become publici
juris is a question of fact to be established. When once it is registered,
after a lapse of seven years, it acquires the validity and it becomes a
distinctive mark, but the grievance is that the word is distinctive with his
product. If it is a descriptive word, it will never intend to oust the trade
name of the appellant. He should have described it as "SPASMODIC" meant for
pain killing or relief from pain. Instead of so describing, he used the word
being a manufacturer of the petitioner product, both based in Bombay itself,
having knowledge, using the same word "SPASMO", prefixing it to the product
FLEXON, when it is meant for treatment of same ailment, there is every
possibility of deception. (C.S.No. 204 of 1998).
36\. At this stage, whether the appellant has no exclusive right to use the
word "SPASMO" which according to the respondent has become publici juris, is a
matter to be established as a question of fact. The reasoning of the learned
Judge on this point virtually putting a seal on a question of fact to be
decided during trial, ultimately, in effect is dismissal of a suit before
trial. This itself is a wrong approach.
37\. In Ciba-Geigy Limited v. Grasslands Research Laboratories Limited (1996)
16 P.T.C. 1 at paras 42 and 43, it was held thus:
We have to remember what learned Halsbery L.C. had said in Reddaway v. Banham,
1896 A. C. 199, "What in each case or in each trade will produce the effect
intended to be prohibited is a matter of which must depend upon the
circumstances of each trade and the peculiarities of each case. It will be
very rash a priori to say how far thing might or might not be described
without being familiar with the technology of a trade. In the mark relating to
the sale of medicinal preparations, the distributors have a vital role to
play. The manufacturers depend on the wholesale distributors and the retail
medical shops. There are lakhs of primary health centres all over India and
wherever there are primary health centres, there are medical shops and
invariably in the medical shops a man is in charge, who is not very much
qualified except that he undergoes a certificate course knowing about the
names of medicines. The wholesale distributors in their turn depend upon
medical representatives. These representatives are not qualified in medicines
but they take instructions from the manufacturing company and the wholesale
distributors to inform the doctors and the medical shops.
The medical representatives of established manufacturers visits the doctors
and the medical shops on regular intervals, but the manufacturers who have
entered the field afresh make visits to the doctors and medical shops very
frequently to improve their sales. The doctors in the primary health centres
act on the representations made by the medical representatives and they often
go by the words of the medical shops in their locality. The doctors in the
towns and the Metropolitan Cities are very busy and they depend upon the
junior doctors for writing the prescription and we have come across cases
where doctors giving wrong prescriptions without knowing the exact composition
of the medicines and the manufacturers of the medicines.
38\. The medical shop man also does not know the difference and he may
unknowingly say both drugs are same. That is where confusion would arise.
Therefore, the argument that scheduled drugs are sold only on prescription and
hence, there is no scope for any confusion, cannot at all be considered.
39\. The learned single Judge at para 20 of the judgment held that the drugs
manufactured by, the appellant and respondent are scheduled drugs and they
cannot be and should not be sold without the prescription from a qualified
doctor, who would definitely understand and differentiate the appellant's drug
"SPASMO-PROXYVON" and the respondent's drug "SPASMO-FLEXON". In fact, the
public are not entitled to purchase these drugs without prescription, as such,
it would not at all cause confusion in the mind of unwary public.
40\. We have to bear in mind the circumstances prevailing in our country where
60% of the people are illiterates. Although certain medicines can be sold on
doctor's prescription only, nevertheless, pharmacies sell the said products
without insisting on Doctor's prescription. Further, when the Chemists would
have to decipher the prescription, there is every likelihood of mistaking one
product for the other. In Ciba-Geigy Limited and Anr. v. Grasslands Research
Laboratories Limited 1995 P. T. C. 251. at para 20, it was held thus:
In Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited v. Dua Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Limited . the
dispute was between the users of two trade marks "CALMPOSE" and "CALMPROSE".
It was contended there that the said medicines can only be sold on the
Doctor's prescription and, therefore, there can be little likelihood of
confusion. Held-
It is true that the said drugs are supposed to be sold on Doctor's
prescription, but it is not known that the same are also available across the
counters in the shops of various chemists. It is also not unknown that the
chemists who may not have "CALMPOSE" may pass-off the medicine "CALMPROSE" to
an unwary purchaser as the medicine prepared by the plaintiff. The test to be
adopted is not the knowledge of the Doctor, who is giving the prescription.
The test to be adopted is whether the unwary customer who goes to purchase the
medicine can make a mistake.
41\. In Astra-idl Limited v. T.T.K. Pharma Limited the question arose whether
the word "BETALOC" was deceptively similar to the word "BETALONG". BETALOC is
used in connection with pharmaceutical preparations. A single Judge of the
Bombay High Court has held following the Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited's case
A.I.R. 1989 Del. 44. cited supra, that-
In the present circumstances, Doctor's prescription factor has lost its
importance since the reality of the situation cannot be ignored. In India,
scheduled drugs which are to be sold under Doctor's prescription are even sold
without production of Doctor's prescriptions and as such reduces the weightage
that can be given to this aspect of the matter while considering the question
of deceptive similarity. The court cannot close its eyes to the existing
circumstances and judicial notice of the factual aspects in existence has to
be taken. In case where the fact of the medicines being sold on Doctor's
prescription has been taken into consideration for deciding whether there was
no likelihood of confusion being created, the marks were not visually,
phonetically and structurally similar. In the instant case, the two marks
'Betaloc' and 'Betalong' being visually, phonetically and structurally similar
and so close to each other than it outweighs the weightage to be given to the
factors that the goods are scheduled drags. The two marks are to be compared
as a while and the prefix ' Beta' cannot be ignored in the matter of such
comparison.
Therefore, there is no merit in the reasoning of the learned single Judge.
42\. The learned senior counsel for the respondent Mr. P. Chidambaram
contended that there is no evidence for actual confusion and there is no
visual resemblance between the two marks. These two contentions can be
answered relying on the judgment of the Supreme Court in K. Krishna Chettiar
v. Ambal & Co. , which reads thus:
There is no evidence of actual confusion, but that might be due to the fact
that the appellant's trade is not of longstanding. There is no visual
resemblance between the two marks, but ocular comparison is not always the
decisive test. The resemblance between the two marks must be considered with
reference to the ear as well as the eye. There is a close affinity of sound
between Ambal and Andal.
43\. The learned Judge at para 21 has held that of these two drugs, one is
white colour tablet and the other is blue colour capsule. Therefore, if at all
die general public to purchase the drags, would go mainly by the colour and
not by the name, of course with exceptions and this being an important factor,
it will not cause confusion in the minds of illiterate public. The test is not
the resemblance being different, it is not dissimilarity in the product but in
the mark, comparison is of the trade mark, not that one is capsule and other
is tablet that has put the Judge from the point of an unwary public and if a
pharmacist or a chemist says that this is for the same ailment but in
different form, there is no reason why the public should disbelieve him, and
they may opt irrespective of the colour and nature one for the other.
44\. Changes in structure cannot be relevant since change will be seen post-
purchase and consumers may believe that such minor changes are made by the
manufacturers themselves. Therefore, the finding of the learned Judge that
they are structurally different and will not lead to confusion, is
unsustainable.
45\. On this aspect, the learned senior counsel relied on a judgment in Durga
Dutt Sharma v. N.P. Laboratories , wherein it was held that when the two
'marks are not identical, the identification of the essential features of the
mark is in essence a question of fact and depends on the judgment of the court
led before it as regards the usage of trade. Kerly on Trade Marks 8th Edn. 407
reads: "Where common marks are included in the trade marks to be compared or
in one of them, the proper course is to look at the marks as whole and not to
disregard the parts which are common'. The fact that the get-up, packing and
other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in which he offers his
good for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin
different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark would be
immaterial, because the purpose of comparison is for determining whether the
essential features of the plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that used
by the defendant. In the ultimate analysis, whether the mark used by the
respondent as a whole is deceptively similar to that of the registered mark is
the question, not the product. Therefore, the reasoning is erroneous.
46\. The learned senior counsel, Mr. P. Chidambaram for the respondent
contended that there are ever so many products having common name though close
phonetically have been carrying on business. This argument does not deserve
any consideration because an imitation acquires no legitimacy on the principle
that a wrong is not righted by the many following wrongs. Infringement of
trade mark by a trader cannot be justified on the ground that there are others
like him who are doing the same. Imitators of trade marks have the sole object
of diverting the business of others and such tendency must be curbed in the
interest of the trade and from the point of view of consumers. Since the first
word being common and the ailment to which it is required also being common,
even a literate purchaser can be taken in by the offending trade mark and can
be led to believe that he is buying the product of the appellant, when
actually he would be purchasing the product of the respondent. It is a fact
that a large number of people in our country are illiterate who can be victims
of imitation. Though one may be a capsule and another may be a tablet, but
still the main ingredient, disease to be treated, with the first word being
common, proximity and affinity of sound and resemblance with the trade name of
the appellant, in these circumstances, it cannot be said that there is no
similarity. In that sense, there is every possibility to confuse persons of
the class who generally purchase such drugs (The Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.,
v. Mahavir Steels and Ors. (Cases & material on Trade Marks (Vol.1) Page 548).
47\. While considering the relief for injunction and action against passing-
off, what has to be seen is whether the plaintiff has acquired a reputation
and good will in the mark which he is using in trading his goods
uninterruptedly and somebody else is attempting to pass-off his goods under
that trade mark. Not granting a relief amounts to allowing the respondent to
make use of the reputation and good will of the appellant by adopting his
trade mark or deceptively similar trade mark for his product. Since the
product of the respondent is of recent origin, namely, introduced only in
October 1997, whereas, the appellant's mark was there for a long time, i.e.,
from 4.8.1977, at the intermediary stage having regard to the continuous usage
which indicates prima facie case, withholding an injunction will cause
irreparable injury, leading to multiplicity of litigation between the parties,
and, therefore, the balance of convenience is also in favour of the appellant.
The test being common for the injunction and passing off action, we are of the
opinion that withholding the relief will do greater mischief or create an
irreparable injury than granting it. (Coolways India v. Princo A.C. &
Refrigeration (1993)1 Arb. L.R. 401).
48\. To judge deception, similarity must be of such a nature capable of
causing a deceit or confusion in the mind of purchaser with ordinary
intelligence. Section 2(d) defines "deceptively similar", in the sense,
looking to the natural meaning of the words, first the offending mark must "so
nearly resemble" the registered mark as to be "likely" to deceive or cause
confusion. It is not necessary that it should be intended to deceive or cause
confusion. One need not have to look into the mind of the user to see what he
intended. It is its probable effect on ordinary people which has to
considered. "To deceive" is one thing and "to cause confusion" is another.
This has to be judged not from the point of view of a person who has the
ability to distinguish one from the other, but from the point of view of a
common man. While deciding the question of "likely to deceive" or "cause
confusion", the intention in conceiving such a mark is not relevant, atleast
at an interim stage. Where if promoted or allowed to happen in conceiving and
adopting the mark, the respondent stands to gain any pecuniary or monetary
benefit is also a matter to be taken into consideration. Having knowledge that
the use of the word "SPASMO" since long time, prior to the introduction of the
new product by the respondent, with the word "SPASMO", smacks of an intention
at this stage, indicating likelihood of deception or confusion, which itself
is sufficient to entitle the appellant for an order of injunction. At this
stage, since both conveyed the same idea, this by itself though not conclusive
is a relevant factor to be taken into consideration to consider the prayer for
injunction. In the instant case, the first word "SPASMO" being common, the
last two letters "ON" in both the marks being common and there will not be
much phonetic dissimilarity in pronouncing the word 'P' and 'F', there is
every possibility for confusion from the point of view of an ordinary
consumer. (G.D. Searle & Co. and Anr. v. Diggraphs Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd.
and Anr., Anuja's Intellectual Property Cases vol. 3).
49\. The learned senior counsel Mr. P. Chidambaram, inviting our attention to
a judgment of this Court in Indo-Pharma Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. Mumbai v.
Citadel Fine Pharmaceuticals Limited, Madras 1998 M.L.J. 214 contended that
the scope of the appellate court is limited to interfere with discretionary
orders of interlocutory nature, that too, when the suit is pending. Even if
two views are possible on the material placed before the trial court, the
different view may not justify interference with the trial court's exercise of
discretion, just because another view is reasonably possible on such material.
It is settled in law that in a catena of decisions demarcating the exercise of
appellate powers, on discretionary interlocutory orders a note of caution
always suggests when and how interference could be caused with the exercise of
discretion of the court of first instance and substitutes its own discretion.
That could be done if the discretion has been shown to have been exercised
arbitrarily or capriciously or perversely or where the court had ignored the
settled principles of law regulating grant or refusal of interlocutory
injunctions. Of course, the appellate court to some degree has to re-assess
the material if the assessment is capricious. It has to reach a conclusion
different from the one reached by the court below if the conclusion is
reasonably, prudently not possible on material. But, if the view expressed by
the trial court is reasonably probable in the normal circumstances, in such a
situation, the appellate court should be very slow to dislodge the view of the
trial court to reach a contrary conclusion. In Printers (Mysore) Private
Limited v. Pothan Joseph , which was noticed by the Apex Court in Wander
Limited and another v. Antox India Limited (1991)11 P.T.C. Vol.1, it was held
thus:
...These principles are well established, but as has been observed by Viscount
Simon in Charles Osention & Co. v. Johnston, the law as to the reversal by a
court of appeal of an order made by a Judge below in the exercise of his
discretion is well established, and any difficulty that arises is due only to
the application of well settled principles in an individual case....
If the reasonings of the learned Judge are opposed to the settled principles
of law governing particular issue, such instance will be an eminently fit case
to take a contrary view and to hold that the discretion is not exercised
judiciously.
50\. In Registrar, Trade Marks v. Ashok Chandra Rakhit Limited , the Apex
Court held thus:
The last feature of the section is its proviso. That proviso preserves intact
any right which the proprietor may otherwise under any other law have in
relation to the mark or any part thereof. The disclaimer is only for the
purposes of the Act. It does not affect the rights of the proprietor except
such as arise out of registration. That is to say, the special advantages
which the Act gives to the proprietor by reason of the registration of his
trade mark do not extend to the parts or matters which he disclaims. In short,
the disclaimed parts or matters are not within the protection of the statute.
That circumstances, however, does not mean that the proprietor's rights, if
any, with respect to those parts or matters would not be protected otherwise
than under the Act. If the proprietor has acquired any right by long user of
those parts or matters in connection with goods manufactured or sold by him or
otherwise in relation to his trade, he may, on proof of the necessary facts,
prevent an infringement of his right by a passing-off action or a prosecution
under the Indian Penal Code. Disclaimer does not affect those rights in any
way.
Where the learned Judge has not adverted to an important consideration,
namely, the strong possibility of the appellant claiming a statutory right to
the word "SPASMO" by virtue of the registration, it amounts to not exercising
the discretion properly. It is not the colour of the container or the
difference in product, but it is the statutory right to the word, that has to
weigh.
51\. In Indo-Pharma Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. Mumbai v. Citadel Find
Pharmaceuticals Limited, Madras (1998)1 M.L.J. 214, this Court took the view
that the word was descriptive. In the instant case, it is the contention that
it is distinctive. The court found in that case that phonetically the word
"JEX" and' JASE' are totally dissimilar, which is not the case in the instant
case. Therefore, that case has no application to the case on hand.
52\. In Ruston & Hornby Ltd. v. Z. Engineering Co. , the Apex Court held that
infringement takes place not merely by exact imitation but by the use of a
mark so nearly resembling the registered mark as to be likely to deceive. In
Roche & Co v. G. Manners & Co. , the Apex Court held that letters 'D' and 'P'
in "DROPOVIT" and the corresponding letters 'P' and 'T' in "PROTOVIT" cannot
possibly be slurred over in pronounciation and the words are so dissimilar
that there is no reasonable probability of confusion between the words either
from the visual or phonetic point of view. In Mount Mettur Pharmaceuticals (P)
Ltd. v. Dr. A. Wander A.I.R. 1977 Mad. 105, this Court took the view that,
"ASTHMIX" and "ASMAC" are not similar in sound and hence are not likely to
confuse any person or any normal buyer or even an unwary purchaser. In Mount
Mettur Parmaceuticals Limited v. Ortha Pharmaceuticals Corporation , this
Court took the view that in a contest between medicinal preparations
'UTOGYNOL' and 'ORTHO-GYNOL" already registered, no confusion or deception
likely to be caused and further observed that it is difficult to imagine that
illiterate Indian women would have the ability to pronounce these startlingly
un-Indian words, rather they would rely on their Doctor's prescriptions than
purchase such medicines on their own. On that reasoning, they said that there
is no likelihood of confusion. In S.B.L. Limited v. Himalaya Drug Co. 1997
P.T.C. 17 (D.B.), the High Court of Delhi held that uncommon features viz., 52
and 'T' do not have such phonetic similarity as to make it objectionable. But,
in that decision, it was also held that the decision on the question of
likelihood of deception is a question of fact to be established during trial
and whether such feature is publici juris or generic is also a question of
fact to be decided. In Griffon Laboratories (P) Ltd v. Indian National Drug
Co. P. Ltd, (Suit No. 399 of 1985), the Calcutta High Court held that the word
"SORBITONE" does not infringe or constitute infringement of the trade mark
"SORBILINE" The medicine is prescribed by doctors and prescriptions are served
by chemists and druggists who are registered pharmacists. The public does not
enter the picture at all in the selection of the product. In that case, it was
'held, "Merely because there is phonetic similarity, that phonetic similarity
cannot be held to be a circumstance to hold that it is deceptively similar to
the trade mark of the petitioner". But we decline with respect, to subscribe
our view in the line of that reasoning. In Ciba Geigy Limited v. Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries, Cases and Materials on Trade Marks, Vol.1. 257),
the judgment was based on the reasoning that an ordinary lay-man when he would
be purchasing medicine of such a nature, he would be on his guard and quite
cautions and would not allow himself to be satisfied with a different
medicinal preparation. Similarly, under the Rules, a duty is cast on the
dealers and they cannot consistently with that duty pass-on any other
preparation instead of the one prescribed by Doctor. By doing so, they would
be committing breach of the provisions of the Rules as also conditions of
licence. On that grounds, it was held that there was no likelihood of
deception or confusion. We respectfully disagree with this view and add that
the question to be approached from a unwary public and from the circumstances
and also from the point that in the event of handwriting of a Doctor being
very bad or illegible, the chemists or druggists or pharmacists, in a craze to
clear the commodity because it treats the same ailment, in such a situation,
where there will be likelihood of deception or confusion, coupled with anxiety
of the dealer, likelihood of causing confusion on the consumer. This case has
also no application to the case on hand.
53\. In Johann A. Wulfing v. Chemical Industrial & Pharmaceutical Laboratories
Limited, (Appeal No. 185 of 1979), (1984)1 P.L.R. 26, the salient feature is
the distinctiveness of 'COM' and 'CIP' and not the words following them. In
that context, the court observed that visually and phonetically, there is no
tangible danger of "confusion in the minds of the public which will lead to
confusion in the goods", which is not the same in the instant case. Therefore,
the decisions cited by the learned Counsel for the respondent have no bearing
on the facts and circumstances of this case.
54\. Infringement is optional. Suppose if he is a small user, the registered
owner may not bother, because it is not worthwhile to chase the in fringer.
Even when registered, but the product not used, then also, he need not chase.
Where the user is a big user, there the protection becomes necessary or where
the user may be in such a place where the registered owner has not marketed
his product, then also, he may or may not opt to chase. Where the goods are in
extensive use in the market and when there is likelihood of infringement, then
also, the registered owner can resort to seek protection. In such an event,
the onus of proving such user is of course on the applicant who wants to rely
on those marks. It is possible that the mark may have been registered but not
used. It is also possible that the mark may not have been registered but used,
as in the instant case. Where mere was no evidence that the mark had acquired
any reputation among the public, but showed that it had acquired a reputation
among the trades people only who were discerning and were not likely to be
deceived or confused, and the public not being aware of the reputation of the
infringer's trade mark, were not likely to be deceived or confused by the use
of the proposed trade mark and the registered owner need not resort to action.
55\. In our view, the proof of actual damage or fraud is unnecessary in a
passing-off action whether the relief asked for is injunction alone or
injunction, accounts and damages. If there is a likelihood of the offending
trade mark invading the proprietary right, a case for injunction is made out.
We are fortified in coming to this conclusion by the observations in a bench
decision in Prina Chemical Works v. Sukhdayal, I.L.R (1974)1 Del. 545.
56\. The reasonings of the learned single Judge are at paras 20, 21, and 25 of
the impugned order. For reasons stated at paras 39, 40, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47,
49, 50, 55, 57 and 58 and the view taken by this Court in G. T.C. Industries
Limited, Bombay v. I.T.C. Limited, Madras . We hold that the reasoning and
approach of the learned single Judge is wrong. Normally, the appellate Court
will not interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of first
instance and substitute its own discretion except where the discretion has
been shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely
or where the court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating grant
or refusal of interlocutory injunctions. The conclusion arrived at by the
learned single Judge is opposed to the settled principles of law, virtually
affecting the right of a registered owner of a trade mark, resulting in
irreparable injury and ignoring the balance of convenience. In view of the our
reasonings in the aforestated paragraphs, the findings of the learned single
Judge is capricious, unreasonable and prudently not possible in the facts and
circumstances of the given case.
57\. This Court, in G.T.C. Industries Limited, Bombay v. I.T.C. Limited,
Madras , referring to a decision in National Garments v. National Apparels ,
held thus:
Generally stated even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per
cent, the interim relief sought for is required to be granted. (See paras
15-66 of Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, Twelfth Edition). There
is another reason for the grant of the interlocutory injunction under such
circumstances. Such an order would stop the infringement without delay. Not
only that from experience it is clear that a successful motion for
interlocutory injunction normally puts an end to the litigation and the
infringement with a great saving in expenses compared with a full trial and
that is the reason why the law insists upon the hearing of such a motion in
every case.
58\. If there is likelihood of confusion or deception, the plaintiff need not
in general show strong prima facie case and the prima facie case that is
required to be shown must be something more than a case that will avoid the
action being struck out as frivolous or vexatious. Where the mark used by the
respondent is identical with trade mark of the appellate and the infringement
takes place not merely by exact imitation, but by the use of marks so nearly
resembling the registered mark, the statutory protection is absolutely
necessary by way of an injunction in order to prevent confusion or deception
arising from similarity of marks.
59\. In view of the discussion and reasonings aforestated, we summarise our
conclusion as follows. (1) the registered proprietor of a trade mark has
exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in
respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect
of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the Act. (2) When
once it is registered after a lapse of 7 years, it acquires the validity and
it becomes a distinctive mark. (3) Whether it is descriptive or has become
publicijuris is a question of fact to be established. (4) When a number of
marks all have a common element, may it be prefix, suffix or root, i.e.,
essential part or the core of the mark, they come to be associated in the
public mind as an indication of the same source, which misleads or causes
deception or confusion. (5) It is the common element that has to be identified
in the impugned mark and the registered trade mark and if such common element
is highly distinctive and is not just a description or a commonly used word,
the likelihood, of deception or confusion would be very much there, despite
the fact that it may differ in similarity in certain letters. 6) The question
has to be approached from the point of view of an unwary purchaser and not
from the point of doctor's prescription or the advice of chemists, druggists
or pharmacists, as they may do it in a craze to clear the commodity because it
treats the same ailment. In such a situation, there may be likelihood of
deception or confusion coupled with anxiety of the dealer to cause confusion
on the consumer. (7) The nature of the commodity, the class of purchasers, the
mode of purchase and other surrounding circumstances must also be taken into
consideration. (8) Marks must be looked at from the first impression of a
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
61\. Therefore, the impugned order passed on Application Nos. 1650 to 1654 of
1998 is set aside and the injunction granted in O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 is
made absolute. Both the appeals are allowed. Consequently, the connected
miscellaneous petitions are closed. Parties to bear their own costs.
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
complete preparation of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug and to dispose of the
manufactured drugs and also the unsold drugs of the respondent pending
disposal of the applications. The learned single Judge allowed those
applications and vacated the ex parte order of interim injunction holding that
both the plaintiff and the defendant should maintain their respective
structure and colour of the drugs. Aggrieved by the said common order, the
appellant is now before us.
4\. The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that it adopted the trade mark
SPASMO-PROXYVON" in respect of its pharmaceutical products and the said trade
mark was also registered on 4.8.1977 under the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'The Act' for short)
and the registered number is 327582. The said trade mark was advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No. 706 at page No. 612, and the registration of the same
was notified in Trade Mark Journal No. 750 at page No. 450. Thereafter, it was
renewed upto 4.8.1998 and that fact was also notified in Trade Mark Journal
No. 1014 at page No. 763. Subsequently, the appellant/plaintiff had also
applied for renewal of the said trade mark for a further period of 7 years.
5\. The appellant came to know that the respondent herein has introduced a
pharmaceutical product under the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", a drug for
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
complete preparation of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug and to dispose of the
manufactured drugs and also the unsold drugs of the respondent pending
disposal of the applications. The learned single Judge allowed those
applications and vacated the ex parte order of interim injunction holding that
both the plaintiff and the defendant should maintain their respective
structure and colour of the drugs. Aggrieved by the said common order, the
appellant is now before us.
4\. The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that it adopted the trade mark
SPASMO-PROXYVON" in respect of its pharmaceutical products and the said trade
mark was also registered on 4.8.1977 under the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'The Act' for short)
and the registered number is 327582. The said trade mark was advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No. 706 at page No. 612, and the registration of the same
was notified in Trade Mark Journal No. 750 at page No. 450. Thereafter, it was
renewed upto 4.8.1998 and that fact was also notified in Trade Mark Journal
No. 1014 at page No. 763. Subsequently, the appellant/plaintiff had also
applied for renewal of the said trade mark for a further period of 7 years.
5\. The appellant came to know that the respondent herein has introduced a
pharmaceutical product under the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", a drug for
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
complete preparation of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug and to dispose of the
manufactured drugs and also the unsold drugs of the respondent pending
disposal of the applications. The learned single Judge allowed those
applications and vacated the ex parte order of interim injunction holding that
both the plaintiff and the defendant should maintain their respective
structure and colour of the drugs. Aggrieved by the said common order, the
appellant is now before us.
4\. The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that it adopted the trade mark
SPASMO-PROXYVON" in respect of its pharmaceutical products and the said trade
mark was also registered on 4.8.1977 under the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'The Act' for short)
and the registered number is 327582. The said trade mark was advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No. 706 at page No. 612, and the registration of the same
was notified in Trade Mark Journal No. 750 at page No. 450. Thereafter, it was
renewed upto 4.8.1998 and that fact was also notified in Trade Mark Journal
No. 1014 at page No. 763. Subsequently, the appellant/plaintiff had also
applied for renewal of the said trade mark for a further period of 7 years.
5\. The appellant came to know that the respondent herein has introduced a
pharmaceutical product under the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", a drug for
relieving pain, with almost same preparation and bearing a deceptive
similarity to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and, hence
there is every possibility for the public being mislead in buying it. In other
words, the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON" is deceptively and phonetically similar
to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and also having
colourable imitation that led to filing of suit and interlocutory applications
pertaining to use of trade marks and passing-off goods.
6\. The respondent-company has filed a counter-affidavit stating that it was
founded in or around the year 1972 and for the past 25 years, it has built up
a reputed business in the pharmaceutical industry and is presently among the
top 15 pharmaceutical companies in India. The respondent-Company has around 22
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
passed on O.A.Nos.182 and 183 of 1998 and also to permit the respondent to
complete preparation of the "SPASMO-FLEXON" drug and to dispose of the
manufactured drugs and also the unsold drugs of the respondent pending
disposal of the applications. The learned single Judge allowed those
applications and vacated the ex parte order of interim injunction holding that
both the plaintiff and the defendant should maintain their respective
structure and colour of the drugs. Aggrieved by the said common order, the
appellant is now before us.
4\. The case of the appellant/plaintiff is that it adopted the trade mark
SPASMO-PROXYVON" in respect of its pharmaceutical products and the said trade
mark was also registered on 4.8.1977 under the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 'The Act' for short)
and the registered number is 327582. The said trade mark was advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No. 706 at page No. 612, and the registration of the same
was notified in Trade Mark Journal No. 750 at page No. 450. Thereafter, it was
renewed upto 4.8.1998 and that fact was also notified in Trade Mark Journal
No. 1014 at page No. 763. Subsequently, the appellant/plaintiff had also
applied for renewal of the said trade mark for a further period of 7 years.
5\. The appellant came to know that the respondent herein has introduced a
pharmaceutical product under the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON", a drug for
relieving pain, with almost same preparation and bearing a deceptive
similarity to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and, hence
there is every possibility for the public being mislead in buying it. In other
words, the trade mark "SPASMO-FLEXON" is deceptively and phonetically similar
to that of the appellant's trade mark "SPASMO-PROXYVON" and also having
colourable imitation that led to filing of suit and interlocutory applications
pertaining to use of trade marks and passing-off goods.
6\. The respondent-company has filed a counter-affidavit stating that it was
founded in or around the year 1972 and for the past 25 years, it has built up
a reputed business in the pharmaceutical industry and is presently among the
top 15 pharmaceutical companies in India. The respondent-Company has around 22
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (9) Marks must be
compared as a whole microscopic examination being impermissible. (10) The
broad and salient features must be considered, for which the marks must not be
placed side by side to find out the differences in design. (11) Overall
similarity is the touchstones. (12) It is not the colour of the container or
the difference in the product, but it is the statutory right to the word what
has to weigh. (13) The plaintiff need not in general show strong prima facie
case and the prima facie case that is required to be shown must, be something
more than a case that will avoid the action being struck out as frivolous or
vexatious and even if the chance of success at the trial are only 20 per cent,
the statutory protection is absolutely necessary by way of an injunction in
order to prevent confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks.
60\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, keeping in
view the common element between the impugned mark and the registered trade
mark, we are of the view that there is likelihood of deception or confusion in
the minds of unwary public or from the stand point of a common consumer.
