Delhi High Court - Orders
Allied Blenders And Distillers ... vs Agribiotech Industries Limited ... on 15
October, 2020
                                $~
                                * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                                                            Reserved on: 17th June, 2020
                                                                       Pronounced on : 15th October, 2020
                                +      I.A. No.4397/2020 IN CS(COMM) 166/2020
                                       ALLIED BLENDERS AND DISTILLERS PVT LTD.
                                                                                 ..... Plaintiff
                                                    Through: Mr. Rajiv Nayar and Mr. Akhil
                                                             Sibal, Sr. Advocates with Mr.
                                                             Shrawan Chopra, Mr. Saurabh
                                                             Seth, Ms. Shriya Misra, Mr.
                                                             Vibhav Mithal and Mr. Bobby
                                                             Jain, Advs.
                                                              versus
                                    AGRIBIOTECH INDUSTRIES LIMITED (ABIL)
                                                                            ..... Defendant
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
                                                           Nidhi Singh, Ms. Smriti
                                                           Churiwal, Mr. Jaivir Sidhant
                                                           and Mr. Kinjal Bhatt, Advs.
                                CORAM:
                                HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE C.HARI SHANKAR
                                                                   ORDER
% I.A. 4397/2020
1\. The plaintiff is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of Indian Made
Foreign Liquor (IMFL), under various distinctive registered trademarks. The
present proceedings are concerned with IMFL manufactured and marketed, by the
plaintiff under the tradename "Officers Choice". The plaintiff alleges
infringement, by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 1 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 the defendant, of the trademark and trade label "Officers Choice" and
"Officers Choice Blue", registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
IMFL manufactured and marketed by it. It is also alleged that the defendant is
attempting to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff, and has also
violated the copyright, registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
the distinctive set up of the label, whereunder the plaintiff manufactures and
clears its products. Accordingly, the suit prays for a permanent injunction,
restraining the defendant from dealing, in any manner, with any material,
containing any artistic work, identical or substantially similar to the
artistic work contained in the "Officers Choice" and Officers Choice Blue"
labels of the plaintiff, as well as from dealing in any goods bearing the
trademark "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue", or any deceptively
similar mark.
2\. Summons have been issued in the suit, and notice in I.A. 4397/2020,
preferred by the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). Pleadings, in the suit as well as in the I.A.,
are being completed before the learned Joint Registrar. The order, dated 20th
August, 2020, of the learned Joint Registrar, indicates that the written
statement, and reply to the interlocutory application, filed by the defendant,
were returned under objections, though rejoinders, thereto, stand filed by the
plaintiff. I am informed, thereafter, that pleadings stand completed in the
IA, which is listed for hearing on 21st October, 2020.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 2 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
3\. In the meanwhile, the plaintiff has prayed for an ad interim injunction,
temporarily restraining the defendant from infringing the plaintiffs copyright
and trademarks. Detailed submissions, on the prayer for ad interim injunction,
were addressed by Mr. Rajiv Nayar, and Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel
for the plaintiff, and Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, learned Counsel for the
defendant, and orders were reserved thereon. This order disposes of the said
prayer for ad interim injunction.
4\. Observations, findings and directions, in this order would, therefore,
survive only till the decision on I.A. 4397/2020.
A Brief Factual Overview
5\. According to the recitals in the plaint, the "Officers Choice" trademark
was coined and adopted by M/s. BDA Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as
"BDA") in 1988. The liquor business of BDA was transferred and vested in the
petitioner, on a going concern basis, vide a Composite Scheme of Arrangement,
which was approved by the High Court of Bombay vide order dated 23rd February,
2007. Consequent thereupon, the plaintiff became the proprietor of the
trademark "Officers Choice". This trademark, it is asserted, is used by the
plaintiff, not only in connection with alcoholic beverages, but also in
relation to other goods such as packaged drinking water and snacks. The
plaintiff's goods are claimed to have acquired enviable reputation and
goodwill, and has resulted in the "Officers Choice" brand, of the plaintiff,
becoming one of the highest selling brands, and one of the largest selling
Whiskys in India. It is also asserted that the Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 3 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 "Officers Choice" trademark of
the plaintiff is recognised as a well- known trademark under the Trade Marks
Act, and has been so declared by this Court in order dated 16 th January, 2017
in CS (COMM) 1227/2016 (Allied Blenders and Distillers Pvt Ltd v. Surya Rao).
6\. The plaintiff claims to be the registered proprietor of the "Officers
Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks, in various classes, of which an
illustrative list has been provided in the plaint. These trademarks, it is
claimed, have become distinctive to the Whisky products of the plaintiff.
7\. There was a change, in the trade dress, whereunder the plaintiff was
selling its "Officers Choice" Whisky, on or around May 2009. Prior thereto,
the following labels were used by the plaintiff:
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 4 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 In or around
May, 2009, the above trade dress was substituted by the following new label:
This new label, points out the plaintiff, contained the following distinctive
features:
> (i) an overall combination of red, white and gold,
> (ii) a distinctive gold border,
> (iii) a coat of arms allied in the centre at the top of the label with the
> 'OC' stylised mark,
> (iv) a distinctive layout, divided by a V shaped gold line/band, running
> across the label from one side to the other, with a red background below the
> line and a white background above it,
> (v) white letters in the red lower half of the label, and
> (vi) "Officers Choice" written in red font, in the upper white Signature Not
> Verified half.
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 5 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
8\. This new label, it is pointed out, stands duly registered, on 12 th June,
2013, with the Copyright Office, resulting in exclusive rights, in respect
thereof, vesting in the plaintiff, under Section 14(c) of the Copyright Act.
The new label, therefore, constitutes an "original artistic work", within the
meaning of clause (c) of Section 2 of the said Act.
9\. The plaintiff claims to have introduced yet another, new label, modifying
the layout and colour scheme of the aforesaid label, which may be represented
thus:
10\. The suit avers that, on 2nd June, 2020, the plaintiff discovered that the
defendant had launched a product, named "Chetak Whisky", in the market. The
label employed by the defendant, on its bottle, Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 6 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 claims the petitioner, was
deceptively similar to the label of the petitioner. These were the labels of
the plaintiff and the defendant:
11\. The plaintiff has also placed, on record, the following images from the
website of the defendant http:///www.bajoriagroup.in/Abil/ABIL.aspx , figuring
under the link "Photo Gallery" which, according to the plaintiff, indicates
that the defendant is holding itself out to be associated with the plaintiff,
and seeking to pass off its products as those of the plaintiff: Signature Not
Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 7 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 8 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
12\. The purchasing public, avers the plaintiff, is bound to be deceived into
believing that the products of the defendant are manufactured by the
plaintiff.
13\. In these circumstances, the plaintiff has preferred the present suit, on
which, as noted hereinabove, summons have been issued and pleadings are in the
course of completion. The present application seeks interim relief, and the
prayer clause in the application reads as under:
> "27. In light of the facts and circumstances, it is, therefore, most humbly
> prayed that this Hon'ble Court may be pleased to issue:
> a. an order for temporary injunction restraining the Defendant, its
> directors, wholesalers, distributors, partners, or proprietor as the case
> may be, its officers, servants and agents from using, manufacturing,
> selling, exporting, importing, offering for sale, distributing, advertising,
> directly or indirectly dealing in any packaging and/ or label or any
> material that contains any artistic work in the manner that are identical
> and/ a substantially similar reproduction of the artistic work of the
> Plaintiff's "Officers Choice" and "Officer's Choice Blue" label amounting to
> infringement of the Plaintiff's copyright therein;
> b. An order for temporary injunction restraining the Defendant, its
> directors, wholesalers, distributors, partners, or proprietor as the case
> may be, its officers, servants and agents from using, manufacturing,
> selling, exporting, importing, offering for sale, distributing, advertising,
> directly or indirectly dealing in alcoholic beverages, especially IMFL or
> goods of any description and from holding out by using the impugned images
> on its website http://www.bajoriagroup.in/Abil/ABIL.aspx or in any other
> manner of being in affiliation/association with the Plaintiff, bearing the
> trademark "Officer's Choice"
> Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020
> IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 9 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 and
> "Officer's Choice Blue" or any deceptively similar mark thereto , amounting
> to infringement of the Plaintiff's trademarks as stated in paragraph 8 of
> the Plaint;
> c. an order for temporary injunction restraining the Defendant, its
> directors, wholesalers, distributors, partners, or proprietor as the case
> may be, its officers, servants and agents from manufacturing, selling,
> exporting, importing, offering for sale, distributing, advertising, directly
> or indirectly dealing in IMFL or other goods bearing any identical and/or
> deceptively similar mark/label(s) and from holding out by using the impugned
> images on its website http://www.bajoriagroup.in/Abil/ABIL.aspx or in any
> other manner of being in affiliation/association with the Plaintiff, so as
> to misrepresent their products as those of the Plaintiff and from doing any
> other thing as may cause confusion or deception leading to passing off of
> the Defendant's goods and business as those of the Plaintiff;
> d. an order for temporary injunction restraining the Defendants, their
> principal officers, partners, servants, representatives and agents or any of
> them, from using in any manner, the impugned label and impugned images as
> illustrated in the Plaint or any other conceptually and deceptively similar
> mark or any identical trade/label mark as that of the Plaintiff's "Officer's
> Choice" and "Officer's Choice Blue" including its packaging or on its
> website http://www.bajoriagroup.in/Abil/ABIL.aspx so as to take unfair
> advantage of or to the detriment of the distinctive character and reputation
> of the Plaintiff's registered and well known trade/label mark "Officer's
> Choice" "Officer's Choice Blue" including but not limited to alcoholic
> products, especially whisky products of any description, so as to cause
> dilution or tarnishment of the Plaintiff's trade mark;
> e. An order granting ex-parte relief in terms of prayer 28 (a) to (d) above;
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 10 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 Pass such
other or further order(s) as this Hon'ble Court deem fit and proper in the
facts and circumstances of the case."
14\. The present order is restricted to the issue of grant of ad interim
relief, pending consideration of the application under Order XXXIX, Rules 1
and 2, CPC.
Rival contentions
15\. I have heard, at length, Mr. Rajiv Nayar and Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned
Senior Counsel for the plaintiff and Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, learned Counsel
for the defendant, on the aspect of ad interim relief.
16\. A serious question of the territorial jurisdiction, of this Court, to
entertain the present suit, has been raised by the defendant. Essentially,
therefore, only two issues arise for consideration, at the present juncture,
viz.
(i) whether this Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain the suit, and
(ii) whether, assuming the answer to (i) is in the affirmative, any case for
grant of ad interim injunction is made out, or not.
17\. On the issue of territorial jurisdiction 17.1 Paras 62 and 63 of the
plaint aver that this Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain these
proceedings, and reads as under:
> "62. This Hon'ble Court has jurisdiction under Section 134(2) of the Trade
> Marks Act, 1999 and Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act, as the Plaintiff,
> being the registered proprietor Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
> By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 11 of 54
> Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 of the trademark in issue and the
> proprietor of the copyright in the artistic work in its labels has its
> office located at B-129, Okhla Industrial Area-I, New Delhi-110 020.
> Moreover, the Plaintiff is carrying on its business within the territorial
> limits of this Hon'ble Court in a variety of ways such as (but not limited
> to) sale of its products under the "Officer's Choice" trademark, copyrighted
> logo and trade dress.
> 63\. This Hon'ble Court has the necessary territorial jurisdiction to try
> and entertain the present suit under Section 20 of the Code of Civil
> Procedure, 1908 as the Defendant is carrying on business at Beetal House,
> 3rd Floor, 99 Madangir, Behind Local Shopping Centre, Near Dada Harskuhdas
> Mandir, New Delhi-110 062. The Defendant's website
> http://www.bajoriagroup.in/Abil/ABIL.aspx expressly indicates the said New
> Delhi address under the "Contact Us" page. Furthermore, it is apprehended
> that the Defendant will soon launch its product bearing the impugned label
> within the territorial jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. The Memorandum of
> Association of the Defendant in its "Main Objects" explicitly states that it
> seeks to establish and carry on the business in India or elsewhere. Thus,
> the threat that the Plaintiff's rights will also be infringed within the
> territorial jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court is imminent and real.
> Furthermore, the dynamic effect of violation of the Plaintiff's rights by
> the Defendant is felt within the territorial limits of the Hon'ble Court. On
> account of the aforesaid it is abundantly clear that a substantial and
> integral part of the cause of action has also arisen within the territorial
> jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court."
17.2 The plaintiff is, therefore, contending that this Court has territorial
jurisdiction to entertain the suit, under Section 134(2) of the Trade Marks
Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "the Trade Marks Act"), Section 62(2) of
the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as "the Copyright Act"), as
well as Section 20 of the CPC, on the following premises:
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 12 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
(i) The office of the plaintiff is located within the territorial jurisdiction
of this Court, and the plaintiff carries on its business within such
jurisdiction. The defendant does not dispute this.
(ii) The defendant carries on business at Beetal House, 3rd Floor, 99
Madangir, Behind Local Shopping Centre, Near Dada Harsukhdas Mandir, New
Delhi-110062 (hereinafter referred to as "the Beetal House address"). This
address is also shown as the contact address, on the defendant's website.
(iii) The Memorandum of Association of the defendant, in its "Main Objects",
states that it seeks to establish and carry on its business in India or
elsewhere. A real and imminent threat, of infringement of the plaintiff's
rights, within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, therefore, exists.
(iv) It was apprehended that the defendant would soon launch its products,
bearing the allegedly infringing label, within the territorial jurisdiction of
this Court.
(v) The "dynamic effect" of violation of the plaintiff's rights by the
defendant was felt within the territorial limits of this Court.
17.3 Additionally, Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff,
submits that, on its website, the plaintiff has advertised that it was
establishing a modern distillery at District Sikar, "located at 15 Signature
Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 13 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 KM off the main Delhi-
Jaipur Highway near Shahpura at a distance of approx. 220 KM from Delhi and 70
KM from Jaipur". Proximity to Delhi was, therefore, one of the main features
highlighted in this advertisement.
17.4 Mr. Sibal also relied on two earlier decisions, of Division Benches of
this Court, emanating from suits instituted by the present plaintiff, being
Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, as well as the judgement of a learned
Single Judge of this Court in Zenner International GMBH & Co. Kg v. Anand
Zenner Company Pvt Ltd3. Additionally, reliance was placed on the judgements
of this Court in World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. v. Reshma Collections4 and
Burger King Corporation v. Techchand Shewakramani5. The judgements in Allied
Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, it is pointed out, rule that, while
examining the issue of territorial jurisdiction at the initial stage, the
Court is required to proceed on demurrer, treating the submissions, in the
plaint, as unrebutted. These decisions, the plaintiff further points out, took
into consideration the judgements of the Supreme Court in Indian Performing
Rights Society Ltd v. Sanjay Dalia6 (hereinafter referred to as "IPRS"), and
of this Court in 1 2017 (69) PTC 493 (Del) 2 2017 SCC OnLine Del 7225 3 2018
(73) PTC 618 (Del) 4 2014 SCC OnLine Del 2031 5 2018 SCC OnLine Del 10881 6
(2015) 10 SCC 161 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 14 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd v. Purushottam Kumar Choubey7 (on
which the defendant relies).
17.4 Responding to the submissions of Mr. Nayar and Mr. Sibal, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the plaintiff, Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, learned Counsel
for the defendant seeks to distinguish the judgements of this Court, in Allied
Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, as well as the judgements in World
Wrestling Entertainment Inc.4 and Burger King Corporation5 on the ground that
they have been rendered in the context of Order VII Rule 10 of the CPC, the
considerations governing which are totally different from those which govern
applications under Order XXXIX. The stipulation that, while examining the
issue of territorial jurisdiction at the initial stage, the Court is required
to proceed on the basis of demurrer, according to Mr. Khandekar, may apply to
Order VII Rule 10, but would not apply to an application under Order XXXIX of
the CPC. Mr. Khandekar has pressed, into service, the judgement of the Supreme
Court in Dhodha House v. S. K. Maingi8, to contend that the pre-conditions,
for existence of territorial jurisdiction in cases such as this, as set out in
the said decision, have not been pleaded by the plaintiff.
17.5 Mr. Khandekar submits that, in its judgement in Dhodha House4, the
Supreme Court has examined the scope and ambit of the expression "carry on
business", as contained in Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, as well as
Section 62 of the Copyright Act, and has 7 2016 SCC OnLine Del 376 8 (2006) 9
SCC 41 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 15 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
held that the mere sale, of goods manufactured by a party, at a particular
place, did not amount to "carrying on business" at that place. In the said
decision, submits Mr. Khandekar, the Supreme Court has clarified that the mere
presence of a party, at a particular location, is insufficient to sustain
jurisdiction. It cannot, therefore, in Mr. Khandekar's submission, be said
that the plaintiff "carries on business", within the territorial jurisdiction
of this Court. Apropos Section 134, Mr. Khandekar further submits that the
existence of a subordinate/branch office of the plaintiff, located at C-56,
Shivar Area, Near Sodani Sweets, Bapu Nagar, Jaipur, resulted in clear and
complete ouster of the jurisdiction of this Court in the present case. It was
further submitted that, in Dhodha House4, the Supreme Court had held that a
party could either be carrying out business at its principal place of
business, or at the place where it had a subordinate office, and not in both
places.
17.6 Mr. Khandekar has also castigated the reliance, by learned Senior Counsel
for the plaintiffs, on the Beetal House address, as justifying the invocation
of the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, by submitting that the said
address was of the Registrar, who, in accordance with the provisions of the
Depositories Act, 1996, read with the Companies (Prospectors and Allotment of
Securities) Rules, 2014, was to be contacted in the case of transfer of
shares, etc. Mr. Khandekar submits that the Beetal House address was not, as
the plaintiff seeks to contend, a "contact address" of the plaintiff. The
defendant was, in fact, carrying on business only within the state of
Rajasthan. None of its products were manufactured or sold anywhere Signature
Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 16 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 outside the state,
either by itself or through any of its authorised representatives. The
requisite licenses/approvals, for its liquor business, had been obtained, by
the defendant, from the Excise Commissioner, Government of Rajasthan, and were
applicable only within the territory of the said State.
17.6 Mr. Khandekar relies, further, on the judgement of this Court in Banyan
Tree Holding (P) Ltd v. A. Murali Krishna Reddy9, to contend that the mere
availability, or accessibility, of the website of the defendant, from any part
of the country, was not enough to confer jurisdiction on this Court to
entertain the present proceedings. Besides, he submits, this contention has
been advanced without any pleadings in support thereof. Apropos the
plaintiff's contention, that it had a "real apprehension", of infringement, by
the defendant, of the plaintiff's trademark and copyright, within the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court, Mr. Khandekar submits that the
apprehension could not be regarded as "real". Mr. Khandekar draws attention to
the law relating to threat perception in quia timet actions such as the
present, as enunciated in K. Narayanan v. S. Murali10. Assuming, arguendo,
that such an apprehension could reasonably be said to exist, Mr. Khandekar
points out that this apprehension would cover the entire country and that, in
such cases, this Court had, in its decision in Ultra Home Construction Pvt
Ltd6, held that jurisdiction would vest, in that Court, within the
jurisdiction of which the principal office of the defendant was situated, to
the exclusion of other Courts. Mr. Khandekar also places reliance, in this
context, on the judgements of 9 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780 10 (2008) 10 SCC 479
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 17 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 this Court
in Shree Nath Heritage Liquor Ltd v. Octaga Green Power & Sugar Co. Ltd11 and
Jay Engineering Works Ltd v. Ramesh Agrawal12. This decision, additionally, he
submits, holds that a cause of action cannot be created by clever drafting,
for which proposition he places reliance, additionally, on the judgement of
the Supreme Court in T. V. Arivanandam v. T. V. Satyapal13 and of this Court
in United Phosphorus Ltd v. Ajay Garg14.
17.7 Mr. Khandekar has submitted, further, that the plaintiff's plea that it
was feeling the "dynamic effect", of the defendant's actions, in Delhi, was
merely "clutching at straws", and could not justify the invocation of the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Mr. Khandekar has also pressed, into
service, the principle of forum non conveniens. In any event, he submits, as
the issue of jurisdiction is highly contested and debatable, no case for grant
of ad interim relief exists.
17.8 Learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff submits, in rejoinder, that the
judgements, on which Mr. Khandekar seeks to rely, are all distinguishable.
Apropos the decisions of this Court in Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K.
Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2,
it is pointed out that , despite the fact that the defendants, in both the
cases, were located in Andhra Pradesh, and neither had any office, nor carried
on any business , in Delhi, this Court assumed jurisdiction. Ultra Home
Construction Pvt Ltd7, it is pointed out, dealt with a defendant who had no
office in 11 2017 SCC OnLine Del 9137 12 135 (2006) DLT 666 13 (1977) 4 SCC
467 14 2015 (63) PTC 188 (Del) : 2015 SCC OnLine Del 9873 Signature Not
Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 18 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 Delhi, and was
situated only in Jharkhand. Moreover, Section 20 of the CPC never came up for
consideration in the said case, which was restricted to Section 134 of the
Trademarks Act and Section 62 of the Copyrights Act. This, the plaintiff
points out, was noticed in the subsequent decision in Burger King
Corporation5. In IPRS6, both plaintiff and defendant were located in Bombay,
with the defendant having no office in Delhi, unlike the present case. This
judgement, too, did not concern itself with Section 20 of the CPC, but
restricted its consideration to Sections 134 of the Trademarks Act and Section
62 of the Copyrights Act. Shree Nath Heritage Liquor Ltd11 concerned a
plaintiff whose business was confined to Rajasthan, with the defendants based
only in Maharashtra and Goa, with no place or office of business in New Delhi,
unlike the present case, where the plaintiff and the defendant were carrying
on business in New Delhi. Dhodha House8, similarly, dealt with Section 62(2)
of the Copyright Act, in a situation in which the defendant was not carrying
on business within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court where the suit
was filed. The plaintiff has submitted, further, that, as the website of the
defendant reflected that it had an office in New Delhi, and not in Mumbai, the
contention, of the defendant, that the present suit should have been filed in
Mumbai, was misleading.
17.9 Finally, it is contended, by the plaintiff in rejoinder, that the
plaintiff, as the dominus litis, was entitled to choose its forum, among those
having territorial jurisdiction to deal with the matter. The principle of
forum non conveniens, it is submitted, has no application to civil suits, for
which purpose reliance is placed on the judgement of Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 19 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 a Division Bench of this Court
in Horlicks Ltd v. Heinz India Pvt Ltd15.
Analysis
18\. Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, Section 62 of the Copyrights Act and
Section 20 of the CPC, read thus:
> Section 134, Trade Marks Act
> 134\. Suit for infringement, etc., to be instituted before District Court. -
> (1) No suit -
> (a) for the infringement of a registered trade mark; or
> (b) relating to any right in a registered trade mark; or
> (c) for passing off arising out of the use by the defendant of any trade
> mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trade
> mark, whether registered or unregistered, shall be instituted in any court
> inferior to a District Court having jurisdiction to try the suit.
> (2) For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-
section (1), a "District Court having jurisdiction" shall, notwithstanding
anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or any
other law for the time being in force, include a District Court within the
local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the institution of the suit
or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit or proceeding, or, where
there are 15 164 (2009) DLT 539 : 2010 (42) PTC 156 (Del) Signature Not
Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 20 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 more than one such
persons any of them, actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business
or personally works for gain.
Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-section (2), "person" includes the
registered proprietor and the registered user Section 62, Copyright Act
62\. Jurisdiction of court over matters arising under this Chapter. -
> (1) Every suit or other civil proceeding arising under this Chapter in
> respect of the infringement of copyright in any work or the infringement of
> any other right conferred by this Act shall be instituted in the district
> court having jurisdiction.
> (2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a "district court having
> jurisdiction" shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil
> Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in force,
> include a district court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at
> the time of the institution of the suit or other proceeding, the person
> instituting the suit or other proceeding or, where there are more than one
> such persons, any of them actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
> business or personally works for gain."
Section 20, CPC
20\. Other suits to be instituted where defendants reside or cause of action
arises. -
> Subject to the limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be instituted in a
> Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction
> (a) the defendant, or each of the defendants where there are more than one,
> at the time of the commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily
> Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020
> IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 21 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
> resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain; or
> (b) any of the defendants, where there are more than one, at the time of the
> commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on
> business, or personally works for gain, provided that in such case either
> the leave of the Court is given, or the defendants who do not reside, or
> carry on business, or personally works for gain, as aforesaid, acquiesce in
> such institution; or
> (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. Explanation.- A
> corporation shall be deemed to carry on business at its sole or principal
> office in India or, in respect of any cause of action arising at any place
> where it has also a subordinate office, at such place. Illustrations
> (a) A is a tradesman in Calcutta, B carries on business in Delhi. B, by his
> agent in Calcutta, buys goods of A and requests A to deliver them to the
> East Indian Railway Company. A delivers the goods accordingly in Calcutta. A
> may sue B for the price of the goods either in Calcutta, where the cause of
> action has arisen, or in Delhi, where B carries on business.
> (b) A resides at Simla, B at Calcutta and C at Delhi. A, B and C being
> together at Benaras, B and C make a joint promissory note payable on demand,
> and deliver it to A. A may sue B and C at Benaras, where the cause of action
> arose. He may also sue them at Calcutta, where B resides, or at Delhi, where
> C resides; but in each of these cases, if the non-resident defendant
> objects, the suit cannot proceed without the leave of the Court.
19\. Before adverting to any other decision on the point, I deem it
appropriate to deal, in the first instance, with the judgements of the
Division Bench of this Court, emanating from the two earlier suits instituted
by the plaintiff itself, namely Allied Blenders and Distillers Signature Not
Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM)
166/2020 Page 22 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 v. R.K. Distilleries1
and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2. Both these
decisions examined the aspect of territorial jurisdiction, in the context of a
trademark infringement suit, in the backdrop of Order VII Rule 10 of the CPC,
as contradistinguished with Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2. Mr. Khandekar seeks to
discount the applicability, of these decisions to the present case, on the
basis of the following disclaimer [from Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K.
Distilleries1, and which has been echoed, almost verbatim, in Allied Blenders
and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, both judgements having been
authored by Badar Durrez Ahmed, J., as he then was]:
> "We must make it clear that the considerations with regard to territorial
> jurisdiction in the context of Order VII Rule 10, CPC are entirely different
> from those in the context of an application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2,
> CPC or in the context of an issue framed in the suit with regard to
> territorial jurisdiction. While in the backdrop of Order VII Rule 10, it is
> only the averments contained in the plaint that have to be seen in the case
> of an application for the grant of interim relief under Order XXXIX Rules 1
> & 2, the contentions of the defendant in the reply to this application as
> also those contained in the written statement are required to be examined to
> arrive at a prima facie view. So, while in the case of an Order VII Rule 10
> CPC application, the issue of jurisdiction is decided on the basis of what
> is stated in the plaint and, that too, after assuming the statements to be
> correct, an application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2, CPC requires the
> examination of the contentions of the defendants that may be contained in
> the written statement and / or the reply to the application as also the
> other material which may be placed by the defendant before the court. Here,
> there is no question of considering the pleas of the plaintiff by way of a
> demurrer. Furthermore, the standards would be higher when an issue with
> regard to territorial jurisdiction is to be finally decided in the course of
> trial of the suit. Thus, while for the purposes of an examination under
> Order VII Rule 10, CPC, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL
> SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 23 of 54 Signing
> Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 the court may come to the conclusion that it has
> territorial jurisdiction, this would not come in the way of the defendant in
> raising a question as to territorial jurisdiction, both when the issue of
> temporary injunction under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2, CPC is being considered
> and when an issue as to territorial jurisdiction is being decided in the
> course of trial of the suit. To put it differently, while a plaintiff may
> succeed in demonstrating, for the purposes of Order VII Rule 10 CPC that
> this court has territorial jurisdiction and that the plaint ought not to be
> returned, he may fail in obtaining an order of interim injunction on the
> ground that the plaintiff's entitlement is itself shaky because the issue of
> territorial jurisdiction is highly debatable and prima facie not tenable.
> Therefore, the decision of the court in putting down an objection of the
> defendant and in rejecting the defendant's prayer for return of the plaint
> under Order VII Rule 10, CPC, would not come in the way of the defendant
> raising the question of territorial jurisdiction, both as an objection to
> the grant of an interim injunction as also at the time of decision of the
> issue of territorial jurisdiction, if framed, at the time of trial of the
> suit."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 20\. In the above paragraph, this Court has, undoubtedly,
> contradistinguished the considerations which govern a prayer for interim
> injunction, under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, with those which govern an
> application under Order VII Rule 10, of the CPC.
This distinction, however, does not seriously impact the consideration of the
present prayer, as this order is not disposing of the application, of the
plaintiff, under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, CPC, but is merely considering its
prayer for ad interim relief, pending consideration and disposal of the
application for interim relief, under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2. There can be
no question, therefore, of this Court, at this stage, being guided by the
averments in the written statement, filed by the plaintiff. Indeed, till the
time orders were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 24 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 reserved in this matter, and for a considerable time thereafter,
neither written statement, nor response to the present IA, were brought on
record by the defendant, though, I am informed, they are now on record.
21\. Moreover, even in the case of an application under Order XXXIX Rules 1
and 2, CPC, this Court has, in the above decisions in Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag
Distillery Pvt Ltd2, clarified that, even if no case, for returning the suit,
under Order VII Rule 10, on the ground of want of territorial jurisdiction, is
made out, the plaintiff may, nevertheless, fail in obtaining an order of
interim injunction, if the defendant is able to establish that the plaintiff's
entitlement is itself shaky "because the issue of territorial jurisdiction is
highly debatable and prima facie not tenable". These words occur, verbatim, in
both the judgements. If, therefore, the issue of territorial jurisdiction is
"highly debatable and prima facie not tenable", interlocutory injunction may
justifiably be refused.
22\. It is important to emphasise this position, as Mr. Khandekar has, during
the course of arguments as well as in his written submissions, advanced the
contention that, as the issue of territorial jurisdiction is highly debatable,
no case for grant of ad interim injunction is made out. The decisions in
Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. Prag Distillery2 \- specifically, the paras extracted
hereinabove - reveal that this is not the correct legal position. The
defendant, in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 25 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 order to set up territorial jurisdiction as a ground to oppose the
prayer for interim injunction, would have to establish that the issue of
territorial jurisdiction as both "highly debatable" and "prima facie not
tenable". The use of the words "prima facie not tenable", by the Division
Bench of this Court in these decisions, indicates that the onus would be on
the defendant to establish, prima facie, that the plaint is not amenable to
the territorial jurisdiction of this Court - or, at the least, that the
contentions, of the plaintiff, for invoking the territorial jurisdiction of
this Court are, prima facie, not acceptable.
23\. A suit is either within jurisdiction, or without jurisdiction. A suit
does not have two faces, one for being shown to Order VII Rule 10, and the
other for display before Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2. It is important to
understand why this Court has, in its aforesaid decisions in Allied Blenders
and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v.
Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, sought to distinguish the situation that obtains
under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, vis-à-vis Order VII Rule 10, in the matter of
territorial jurisdiction. This Court has not held that the suit may be within
jurisdiction for the purposes of one provision, and without jurisdiction for
the purposes of the other. What it has stated, instead, is that the
adjudication of an application under Order VII Rule 10 proceeds on a demurrer,
whereas an application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 is to be decided after
considering the averments in the written statement of the defendant. Even
though a suit may appear to be within jurisdiction, based on the averments in
the plaint and, therefore, a challenge under Order VII Rule 10, may fail, the
written statement, which would also Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 26 of 54
Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 be taken into account while adjudicating on
the application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, may disclose that, in fact,
the claim, of the plaintiff, that the suit is within jurisdiction is "highly
debatable and prima facie not tenable". In that event, the plaintiff may not
succeed in obtaining interim relief, as prayed in the application under Order
XXXIX Rules 1 and 2. That is all that the afore-extracted passage, from Allied
Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 says, and it would be hazardous
to read anything more into it.
24\. It is not, therefore, as Mr. Khandekar would seek to urge, that the
observations and findings, in Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K.
Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2,
are irrelevant for the present case. I have, with me, only the plaint, and no
written statement, of the defendant, is on record. As such, as in the case of
Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2, I have to proceed on the basis of the
averments in the plaint, for the purposes of considering the prayer for ad
interim relief. To that extent, this case is at par with Allied Blenders and
Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag
Distillery Pvt Ltd2.
25\. The factors, which would determine the sustainability of an objection, by
the defendants, to the territorial jurisdiction of this Court to adjudicate on
the plaint, remain the same, whether the Court is examining the objection in
the course of adjudication of an application under Order VII Rule 10, or under
Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL
SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 27 of 54 Signing
Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 the CPC. What differs, is the material that is to be
taken into account, by the Court, while adjudicating the application.
26\. Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders
and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2 rely on the judgement of the
Supreme Court in IPRS6, the following passages, from which, are relevant:
> "14. Considering the very language of Section 62 of the Copyright Act and
> Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, an additional forum has been provided by
> including a District Court within whose limits the plaintiff actually and
> voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain. The
> object of the provisions was to enable the plaintiff to institute a suit at
> a place where he or they resided or carried on business, not to enable them
> to drag the defendant further away from such a place also as is being done
> in the instant cases. In our opinion, the expression "notwithstanding
> anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure" does not oust the
> applicability of the provisions of Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure
> and it is clear that additional remedy has been provided to the plaintiff so
> as to file a suit where he is residing or carrying on business, etc. as the
> case may be. Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure enables a plaintiff
> to file a suit where the defendant resides or where cause of action arose.
> Section 20(a) and Section 20(b) usually provides the venue where the
> defendant or any of them resides, carries on business or personally works
> for gain. Section 20(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure enables a plaintiff
> to institute a suit where the cause of action wholly or in part, arises. The
> Explanation to Section 20 CPC has been added to the effect that corporation
> shall be deemed to carry on business at its sole or principal office in
> India or in respect of any cause of action arising at any place where it has
> subordinate office at such place. Thus, "corporation" can be sued at a place
> having its sole or principal office and where cause of action wholly or in
> part, arises at a place where it has also a subordinate office at such
> place.
***** Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 28 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
16\. "Corporation" in the Explanation to Section 20 CPC would mean not only
the statutory corporation but companies registered under the Companies Act, as
held by this Court in Patel Roadways Ltd. v. Prasad Trading Co., (1991) 4 SCC
270 and New Moga Transport Co. v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2004) 4
SCC 677. The domicile of the company is fixed by the situation of its
principal place of business as held in Jones v. Scottish Accident Insurance
Co. Ltd., (1886) LR 17 QBD 421 (DC). In the case of companies registered under
the Companies Act, the controlling power is, as a fact, generally exercised at
the registered office, and that office is therefore not only for the purposes
of the Act, but for other purposes, the principal place of business, as held
in Watkins v. Scottish Imperial Insurance Co., (1889) LR 23 QBD 285 (DC). A
company may have subordinate or branch offices in fifty different
jurisdictions and it may be sued in any one of such jurisdictions in respect
of a cause of action arising there, has been held in Peoples' Insurance Co.
Ltd. v. Benoy Bhusan Bhowmik, AIR 1943 Cal 199, Home Insurance Co. Ltd. v.
Jagatjit Sugar Mills Co. Ltd., AIR 1952 Punj 142 and Prag Oil Mills Depot v.
Transport Corpn. of India, (1978) SCC OnLine Ori 72 : AIR 1978 Ori  167.
17\. Accrual of cause of action is a sine qua non for a suit to be filed.
Cause of action is a bundle of facts which is required to be proved to grant
relief to the plaintiff. Cause of action not only refers to the infringement
but also the material facts on which right is founded. Section 20 CPC
recognises the territorial jurisdiction of the courts inter alia where the
cause of action wholly or in part arises. It has to be decided in each case
whether cause of action wholly or in part arises at a particular place, as
held by this Court in Rajasthan High Court Advocates' Assn. v. Union of India,
(2001) 2 SCC 294 : AIR 2001 SC 416. Thus, a plaintiff can also file a suit
where the cause of action wholly or in part arises.
*****
19\. The intendment of the aforesaid provisions inserted in the Copyright Act
and the Trade Marks Act is to provide a forum to the plaintiff where he is
residing, carrying on business or personally works for gain. The object is to
ensure Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 29 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
that the plaintiff is not deterred from instituting infringement proceedings
"because the court in which proceedings are to be instituted is at a
considerable distance from the place of their ordinary residence". The
impediment created to the plaintiff by Section 20 CPC of going to a place
where it was not having ordinary residence or principal place of business was
sought to be removed by virtue of the aforesaid provisions of the Copyright
Act and the Trade Marks Act. Where the corporation is having ordinary
residence/principal place of business and cause of action has also arisen at
that place, it has to institute a suit at the said place and not at other
places. The provisions of Section 62 of the Copyright Act and Section 134 of
the Trade Marks Act never intended to operate in the field where the plaintiff
is having its principal place of business at a particular place and the cause
of action has also arisen at that place so as to enable it to file a suit at a
distant place where its subordinate office is situated though at such place no
cause of action has arisen. Such interpretation would cause great harm and
would be juxtaposed to the very legislative intendment of the provisions so
enacted.
*****
21\. At the same time, the provisions of Section 62 of the Copyright Act and
Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act have removed the embargo of suing at place
of accrual of cause of action wholly or in part, with regard to a place where
the plaintiff or any of them ordinarily resides, carries on business or
personally works for gain. We agree to the aforesaid extent that the
impediment imposed under Section 20 CPC to a plaintiff to institute a suit in
a court where the defendant resides or carries on business or where the cause
of action wholly or in part arises, has been removed. But the right is subject
to the rider in case the plaintiff resides or has its principal place of
business/carries on business or personally works for gain at a place where
cause of action has also arisen, suit should be filed at that place not at
other places where the plaintiff is having branch offices, etc.
22\. There is no doubt about it that the words used in Section 62 of the
Copyright Act and Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, "notwithstanding
anything contained in CPC or any other law for the time being in force",
emphasise that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 30 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 requirement of Section 20 CPC would not have to be complied with by
the plaintiff if he resides or carries on business in the local limits of the
court where he has filed the suit but, in our view, at the same time, as the
provision providing for an additional forum, cannot be interpreted in the
manner that it has authorised the plaintiff to institute a suit at a different
place other than the place where he is ordinarily residing or having principal
office and incidentally where the cause of action wholly or in part has also
arisen. The impugned judgments, in our considered view, do not take away the
additional forum and fundamental basis of conferring the right and advantage
to the authors of the Copyright Act and the Trade Marks Act provided under the
aforesaid provisions.
*****
24\. If the interpretation suggested by the appellant is accepted, several
mischiefs may result, intention is that the plaintiff should not go to far-
flung places than that of residence or where he carries on business or works
for gain in order to deprive the defendant a remedy and harass him by dragging
to distant place...
*****
25\. Considering the first aspect of the aforesaid principle, the common law
which was existing before the provisions of law were passed was Section 20
CPC. It did not provide for the plaintiff to institute a suit except in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section 20. The defect in existing
law was inconvenience/deterrence caused to the authors suffering from
financial constraints on account of having to vindicate their intellectual
property rights at a place far away from their residence or the place of their
business. The said mischief or defect in the existing law which did not
provide for the plaintiff to sue at a place where he ordinarily resides or
carries on business or personally works for gain, was sought to be removed.
Hence, the remedy was provided by incorporating the provisions of Section 62
of the Copyright Act. The provisions enabled the plaintiff or any of them to
file a suit at the aforesaid places. But if they were residing or carrying on
business or personally worked for gain already at such place, where cause of
action has arisen, wholly or in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 31 of 54
Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 part, the said provisions have not provided
additional remedy to them to file a suit at a different place. The said
provisions never intended to operate in that field. The operation of the
provisions was limited and their objective was clearly to enable the plaintiff
to file a suit at the place where he is ordinarily residing or carrying on
business, etc. as enumerated above, not to go away from such places. The
legislature has never intended that the plaintiff should not institute the
suit where he ordinarily resides or at its head office or registered office or
where he otherwise carries on business or personally works for gain where the
cause of action too has arisen and should drag the defendant to a subordinate
office or other place of business which is at a far distant place under the
guise of the fact that the plaintiff corporation is carrying on business
through branch or otherwise at such other place also. If such an
interpretation is permitted, as rightly submitted on behalf of the
respondents, the abuse of the provision will take place. Corporations and big
conglomerates, etc. might be having several subordinate offices throughout the
country. Interpretation otherwise would permit them to institute infringement
proceedings at a far-flung place and at an unconnected place as compared to a
place where the plaintiff is carrying on their business, and at such place,
cause of action too has arisen. In the instant cases, the principal place of
business is, admittedly, in Mumbai and the cause of action has also arisen in
Mumbai. Thus, the provisions of Section 62 of the Copyright Act and Section
134 of the Trade Marks Act cannot be interpreted in a manner so as to confer
jurisdiction on the Delhi Court in the aforesaid circumstances to entertain
such suits. The Delhi Court would have no territorial jurisdiction to
entertain it.
26\. The avoidance of counter-mischief to the defendant is also necessary
while giving the remedy to the plaintiff under the provisions in question. It
was never visualised by the lawmakers that both the parties would be made to
travel to a distant place in spite of the fact that the plaintiff has a remedy
of suing at the place where the cause of action has arisen where he is having
head office/carrying on business, etc. The provisions of the Copyright Act and
the Trade Marks Act provide for the authors/trade mark holders to sue at their
ordinary residence or where they carry on their business. The said provisions
of law never intended to be oppressive to the defendant. The Parliamentary
debate quoted above has to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL
SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 32 of 54 Signing
Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 understood in the manner that suit can be filed where
the plaintiff ordinarily resides or carries on business or personally works
for gain. Discussion was to provide remedy to the plaintiff at convenient
place; he is not to travel away. Debate was not to enable the plaintiff to
take the defendant to farther place, leaving behind his place of
residence/business, etc. The right to remedy given is not unbridled and is
subject to the prevention of abuse of the aforesaid provisions, as discussed
above. Parliament never intended that the subject provisions be abused by the
plaintiff by instituting suit in wholly unconnected jurisdiction. In the
instant cases, as the principal place of business is at Mumbai the cause of
action is also at Mumbai but still the place for suing has been chosen at
Delhi. There may be a case where the plaintiff is carrying on the business at
Mumbai and cause of action has arisen in Mumbai. The plaintiff is having
branch offices at Kanyakumari and also at Port Blair, if interpretation
suggested by the appellants is acceptable, mischief may be caused by such
plaintiff to drag a defendant to Port Blair or Kanyakumari. The provisions
cannot be interpreted in the said manner devoid of the object of the Act.
*****
36\. This Court in Sonic Surgical v. National Insurance Company Ltd., (2010) 1
SCC 135 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 28 has also laid down law to the same effect and
has discussed the term "branch office" used in Section 17(2) of the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 in the context of cause of action. Section 17(2) of the
said Act reads thus: (SCC p. 138, para 7) "7. ... '17. (2) A complaint shall
be instituted in a State Commission within the limits of whose jurisdiction --
> (a) the opposite party or each of the opposite parties, where there are more
> than one, at the time of the institution of the complaint, actually and
> voluntarily resides or carries on business or has a branch office or
> personally works for gain; or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
> By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 33 of 54
> Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
> (b) any of the opposite parties, where there are more than one, at the time
> of the institution of the complaint, actually and voluntarily resides, or
> carries on business or has a branch office or personally works for gain,
> provided that in such case either the permission of the State Commission is
> given or the opposite parties who do not reside or carry on business or have
> a branch office or personally works for gain, as the case may be, acquiesce
> in such institution; or
> (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises.'"
This Court while interpreting the provision held that the term "branch office"
as used in the amended Section 17(2)(b) has to be interpreted to mean only
that branch office where the cause of action has arisen. Thus, the court
departed from the plain and literal meaning of the words of Section 17(2)(b)
of the Consumer Protection Act in order to avoid absurdity. The decision in
Sonic Surgical (2010) 1 SCC 135 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 28 has been approved by
this Court in State of M.P. v. Narmada Bachao Andolan [(2011) 7 SCC 639 :
(2011) 3 SCC (Civ) 875 inasmuch as this Court has observed that in case the
natural meaning leads to mischievous consequences, it must be avoided by
accepting other permissible construction.
*****
38\. The respondents have placed reliance on Patel Roadways Ltd. v. Prasad
Trading Co., (1991) 4 SCC 270 in which this Court has considered the
provisions of Section 20 CPC. This Court has observed thus: (SCC pp. 277-78,
paras 12-13) "12. We would also like to add that the interpretation sought to
be placed by the appellant on the provision in question renders the
Explanation totally redundant. If the intention of the legislature was, as is
said on their behalf, that a suit against a corporation could be instituted
either at the place of its sole or principal office (whether or not the
corporation carries on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH
NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 34 of 54 Signing
Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 business at that place) or at any other place where
the cause of action arises, the provisions of clauses (a), (b) and (c)
together with the first part of the Explanation would have completely achieved
the purpose. Indeed the effect would have been wider. The suit could have been
instituted at the place of the principal office because of the situation of
such office (whether or not any actual business was carried on there).
Alternatively, a suit could have been instituted at the place where the cause
of action arose under clause (c) (irrespective of whether the corporation had
a subordinate office in such place or not). This was, therefore, not the
purpose of the Explanation. The Explanation is really an Explanation to clause
(a). It is in the nature of a clarification on the scope of clause
(a) viz. as to where the corporation can be said to carry on business. This,
it is clarified, will be the place where the principal office is situated
(whether or not any business actually is carried on there) or the place where
a business is carried on giving rise to a cause of action (even though the
principal office of the corporation is not located there) so long as there is
a subordinate office of the corporation situated at such place. The linking
together of the place where the cause of action arises with the place where a
subordinate office is located clearly shows that the intention of the
legislature was that, in the case of a corporation, for the purposes of clause
(a), the location of the subordinate office, within the local limits of which
a cause of action arises, is to be the relevant place for the filing of a suit
and not the principal place of business. If the intention was that the
location of the sole or principal office as well as the location of the
subordinate office (within the limits of which a cause of action arises) are
to be deemed to be places where the corporation is deemed to be carrying on
business, the disjunctive 'or' will not be there. Instead, the second part of
the Explanation would have read 'and, in respect of any cause of action
arising at any place where it has a subordinate office, also at such place'.
13\. As far as we can see the interpretation which we have placed on this
section does not create any practical or undue difficulties or disadvantage
either to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 35 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
the plaintiff or a defendant corporation. It is true that, normally, under
clauses (a) to (c), the plaintiff has a choice of forum and cannot be
compelled to go to the place of residence or business of the corporation and
can file a suit at a place where the cause of action arises. If a corporation
desires to be protected from being dragged into litigation at some place
merely because a cause of action arises there it can save itself from such a
situation by an exclusion clause as has been done in the present case. The
clear intendment of the Explanation, however, is that, where the corporation
has a subordinate office in the place where the cause of action arises, it
cannot be heard to say that it cannot be sued there because it does not carry
on business at that place. It would be a great hardship if, in spite of the
corporation having a subordinate office at the place where the cause of action
arises (with which in all probability the plaintiff has had dealings), such
plaintiff is to be compelled to travel to the place where the corporation has
its principal place. That place should be convenient to the plaintiff; and
since the corporation has an office at such place, it will also be under no
disadvantage. Thus the Explanation provides an alternative locus for the
corporation's place of business, not an additional one."
(emphasis in original) This Court has considered while interpreting the
provision of Section 20 CPC that no practical or undue difficulties or
disadvantage either to the plaintiff or the defendant corporation could be
caused. It has also been observed that it would be a great hardship if in
spite of the corporation having a subordinate office at a place where the
cause of action arises, such plaintiff is compelled to travel where the
corporation has its principal office. That place should be convenient to the
plaintiff and the corporation has an office at such place, will also be under
no disadvantage.
39\. Under clauses (a) to (c) of Section 20 CPC, a plaintiff has a choice of
forum and cannot be compelled to go to a place of business or residence of the
defendant and can file a suit where the cause of action arises. The intendment
of the Explanation has also been taken into consideration by this Court in New
Moga Transport Co. v. United India Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 36 of 54
Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 Insurance Co. Ltd., (2004) 4 SCC 677 thus:
(SCC pp. 681- 82, paras 9-10) "9. Normally, under clauses (a) to (c) the
plaintiff has a choice of forum and cannot be compelled to go to the place of
residence or business of the defendant and can file a suit at a place where
the cause of action arises. If the defendant desires to be protected from
being dragged into a litigation at some place merely because the cause of
action arises there it can save itself from such a situation by an exclusion
clause. The clear intendment of the Explanation, however, is that where the
corporation has a subordinate office in the place where the cause of action
arises it cannot be heard to say that it cannot be sued there because it does
not carry on business at that place. Clauses (a) and (b) of Section 20 inter
alia refer to a court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
defendant inter alia 'carries on business'. Clause (c) on the other hand
refers to a court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the cause of
action wholly or in part arises.
10\. On a plain reading of the Explanation to Section 20 CPC it is clear that
the Explanation consists of two parts: (i) before the word 'or' appearing
between the words 'office in India' and the words 'in respect of', and (ii)
the other thereafter. The Explanation applies to a defendant which is a
corporation, which term would include even a company. The first part of the
Explanation applies only to such corporation which has its sole or principal
office at a particular place. In that event, the court within whose
jurisdiction the sole or principal office of the company is situate will also
have jurisdiction inasmuch as even if the defendant may not actually be
carrying on business at that place, it will be deemed to carry on business at
that place because of the fiction created by the Explanation. The latter part
of the Explanation takes care of a case where the defendant does not have a
sole office but has a principal office at one place and has also a subordinate
office at another place. The expression 'at such place' appearing in the
Explanation and the word 'or' which is disjunctive clearly suggest that if the
case Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 37 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
falls within the latter part of the Explanation it is not the court within
whose jurisdiction the principal office of the defendant is situate but the
court within whose jurisdiction it has a subordinate office which alone has
the jurisdiction 'in respect of any cause of action arising at any place where
it has also a subordinate office'."
40\. In Exphar Sa v. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd., (2004) 3 SCC 688, this Court
had considered the provisions contained in Section 62 of the Copyright Act and
has observed that the word "include" shows that the jurisdiction for the
purpose of Section 62 is wider than that of the court as prescribed under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. This Court has laid down thus: (SCC p. 693,
paras 12-13) "12. We would like to emphasise the word 'include'. This shows
that the jurisdiction for the purposes of Section 62 is wider than that of the
court as prescribed under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The relevant
extract of the report of the Joint Committee published in the Gazette of India
dated 23-11-1956 which preceded and laid the foundation for Section 62(2)
said:
> 'In the opinion of the Committee many authors are deterred from instituting
> infringement proceedings because the court in which such proceedings are to
> be instituted is situated at a considerable distance from the place of their
> ordinary residence. The Committee feels that this impediment should be
> removed and the new sub-section (2) accordingly provides that infringement
> proceedings may be instituted in the District Court within the local limits
> of whose jurisdiction the person instituting the proceedings ordinarily
> resides, carries on business, etc.'
13\. It is, therefore, clear that the object and reason for the introduction
of sub-section (2) of Section 62 was not to restrict the owners of the
copyright to exercise their rights but to remove any impediment from their
doing so. Section 62(2) cannot be read as Signature Not Verified Digitally
Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 38 of 54
Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 limiting the jurisdiction of the District
Court only to cases where the person instituting the suit or other proceeding,
or where there are more than one such persons, any of them actually and
voluntarily resides or carries on business or presently works for gain. It
prescribes an additional ground for attracting the jurisdiction of a court
over and above the 'normal' grounds as laid down in Section 20 of the Code."
This Court held therein that the Delhi Court had jurisdiction since the
plaintiff had averred that it has its registered office in Delhi and the cease
and desist notice was also received by the appellants at Delhi. The decision
in Exphar Sa (2004) 3 SCC 688, does not oust the applicability of the
provisions of Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure as this Court has laid
down that Section 62 has prescribed an additional ground other than the normal
ground prescribed in Section 20 CPC. The question posed before us in the
instant cases is different. In our considered opinion, the decision in Exphar
Sa (2004) 3 SCC 688, buttresses the interpretation adopted by us.
41\. Reliance has also been placed on decision in Dhodha House v. S.K. Maingi,
(2006) 9 SCC 41 in which this Court considered the question about the
maintainability of the composite suit for infringement of the Copyright Act,
1957 and the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. The Trade Marks Act, 1999
was also considered. This Court has laid down that composite suit may be
maintainable under the Copyright Act and the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958
but that may not be relevant for the purpose of determining the question of a
forum where a suit can be instituted. In case the court is not having
jurisdiction under one of the Acts, merely by combining the causes of action,
the jurisdiction cannot be conferred upon the court. In that context, this
Court has observed thus: (SCC pp. 20 & 53-55, paras 20, 44 & 47) "20. The
jurisdiction of the District Court to determine a lis under the 1957 Act as
also the 1958 Act must, thus, be instituted where the whole or a part of cause
of action arises. Sub-section (2) of Section 62 of the 1957 Act provides for
an additional forum therefore in the following terms:
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 39 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 '62. (2) For
the purpose of sub-section (1), a "District Court having jurisdiction" shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), or any other law for the time being in force, include a District Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the institution
of the suit or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit or other
proceeding or, where there are more than one such persons, any of them
actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works
for gain.' Admittedly, no such additional forum had been created in terms of
the provisions of the 1958 Act.
****
44\. A cause of action in a given case both under the 1957 Act as also under
the 1958 Act may be overlapping to some extent. The territorial jurisdiction
conferred upon the court in terms of the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure indisputably shall apply to a suit or proceeding under the 1957 Act
as also the 1958 Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 62 of the 1957 Act provides
for an additional forum. Such additional forum was provided so as to enable
the author to file a suit who may not otherwise be in a position to file a
suit at different places where his copyright was violated. Parliament while
enacting the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act in the year 1958 was aware of the
provisions of the 1957 Act. It still did not choose to make a similar
provision therein. Such an omission may be held to be a conscious action on
the part of Parliament. The intention of Parliament in not providing for an
additional forum in relation to the violation of the 1958 Act is, therefore,
clear and explicit. Parliament while enacting the Trade Marks Act, 1999
provided for such an additional forum by enacting sub-section (2) of Section
134 of the Trade Marks Act. The court shall not, it is well settled, readily
presume the existence of jurisdiction of a court which was not conferred by
the statute. For the purpose of attracting the jurisdiction of a court in
terms Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 40 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
of sub-section (2) of Section 62 of the 1957 Act, the conditions precedent
specified therein must be fulfilled, the requisites wherefor are that the
plaintiff must actually and voluntarily reside to carry on business or
personally work for gain.
****
47\. A corporation in view of Explanation appended to Section 20 of the Code
would be deemed to be carrying on business inter alia at a place where it has
a subordinate office. Only because its goods are being sold at a place would
thus evidently not mean that it carries a business at that place."
(Emphasis supplied)
42\. In Dhodha House v. S.K. Maingi, (2006) 9 SCC 41, the question which is
posed before us did not come up for consideration and it has been observed
that the Act provides for an additional forum. Such additional forum was
provided so as to enable a plaintiff who may not be otherwise in a position to
file a suit at different places where the copyright was violated. We have
anxiously considered the aforesaid observations made and the object of the
Act, we find that the interpretation made by us does not militate against the
observations made by this Court in Dhodha House, (2006) 9 SCC 41, the precise
question which is before us, was not involved in the aforesaid case. A
decision is not to be construed like a statute nor by inferential process can
it be assumed that this Court has decided the question also which is before
this Court in the instant cases.
*****
52\. In our opinion, the provisions of Section 62 of the Copyright Act and
Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act have to be interpreted in the purposive
manner. No doubt about it that a suit can be filed by the plaintiff at a place
where he is residing or carrying on business or personally works for gain. He
need not travel to file a suit to a place where the defendant is residing or
cause of action wholly or in part arises. However, if the plaintiff is
residing or carrying on business, etc. at a place where the cause of action,
wholly or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 41 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
in part, has also arisen, he has to file a suit at that place, as discussed
above."
(Emphasis supplied)
27\. The following legal position, therefore, emerges from IPRS6:
> (i) Section 62 of the Copyright Act, and Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act,
> provide for additional fora, before which a suit for infringement of
> copyright, or trademark, could be preferred, in addition to the fora before
> which such a claim could be laid under Section 20 of the CPC.
                                       (ii)    Section 20 of the CPC permits suits to be instituted
                                       where
                                               (a)    the defendants
                                                      (i)     reside, or
                                                      (ii)    carry on business, or
                                                      (iii)   personally work for gain, or
                                               (b)    the cause of action arises, in whole or in part.
> (iii) Where the defendant is a Corporation, it is deemed to carry on
> business at its overall principal office in India.
                                       (iv)    If, however,
                                               (a)    the defendant does not have a sole office, but has a
> principal office within the jurisdiction of one Court, and
> (b) the cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of another Court,
> within whose jurisdiction the subordinate office of the defendant is
> situate, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
> 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 42 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
> 17:36:36 the suit would have to be preferred before such latter Court, and
> cannot be filed before the Court having territorial jurisdiction over the
> principal office of the defendant. [I may observe, here, that the absence of
> the word "also", before the words "at such place", as they figure in the
> Explanation to Section 20, CPC, vouchsafes this legal position, as
> enunciated by the Supreme Court. The two parts of the Explanation to Section
> 20, therefore, deal with two different eventualities. If the defendant is a
> Corporation, having a sole, or a principal office in India, it is deemed to
> carry on business at the place where such sole, or a principal office, is
> located. If, however, the defendant has more than one office, and the cause
> of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of a Court having territorial
> jurisdiction over a subordinate office of the defendant, the suit would have
> to be preferred before that Court, and cannot be filed before the Court
> having territorial jurisdiction over the principal office of the defendant,
> as no part of the cause of action has arisen within such jurisdiction. This
> aspect is also underscored in the following words, from para 19 of the
> report in Ultra Home Construction7:
> "Clearly, on the basis of the averments in the plaint itself and in the
> backdrop of the observations in Dhodha House (supra), the
> appellant/plaintiff carries on business in Deogarh, Jharkhand. It may also
> carry on business at Delhi. But, because the cause of action has allegedly
> arisen in Deogarh, Jharkhand, and not in Delhi, the appellant/plaintiff
> cannot sue the defendants/respondents in Delhi in view of the decision in
> Sanjay Dalia (supra). Thus, this court does not have the territorial
> jurisdiction to entertain the suit."
> (Emphasis supplied)] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH
> NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 43 of 54 Signing
> Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
> (v) Where original jurisdiction is vested in the High Court, Section 134 of
> the Trade Marks Act, or Section 62 of the Copyright Act, additionally
> permits the institution of suit, for infringement, before the High Court
> having jurisdiction over the plaintiff or, if there are more than one
> plaintiffs, any of the plaintiffs
> (a) resides, or
> (b) carries on business, or
> (c) personally works for gain.
> (vi) "Cause of action" refers to the bundle of facts, which are required to
> be proved in order to grant relief to the plaintiff. It, therefore, refers
> not only to the act of infringement, but also the material facts on which
> the right is founded.
> (vii) If the plaintiff is ordinarily resident, or has its principal place of
> business within the jurisdiction of one High Court, the suit has to be
> instituted before that High Court. Section 62 of the Copyright Act, and
> Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, do not permit institution of the suit
> before another High Court, within whose jurisdiction the plaintiff may claim
> to have a subordinate or branch office. The purpose of Section 62 of the
> Copyright Act, and of Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, is to facilitate
> the plaintiff, in filing the suit close to its principal place of business,
> and not to compel the defendant to defend the suit before other, distant,
> fora.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 44 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
28\. Mr. Khandekar has placed especial reliance on the following passage, from
Dhodha House8 [rendered in the context of Section 20, CPC, as the Trade Marks
Act, 1958, with which the Supreme Court was concerned in that case, did not
contain any provision analogous to Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999]:
> "46. The expression "carries on business" and the expression "personally
> works for gain" connote two different meanings. For the purpose of carrying
> on business only presence of a man at a place is not necessary. Such
> business may be carried on at a place through an agent or a manager or
> through a servant. The owner may not even visit that place. The phrase
> "carries on business" at a certain place would, therefore, mean having an
> interest in a business at that place, a voice in what is done, a share in
> the gain or loss and some control thereover. The expression is much wider
> than what the expression in normal parlance connotes, because of the ambit
> of a civil action within the meaning of Section 9 of the Code. But it is
> necessary that the following three conditions should be satisfied, namely,
> "(1) The agent must be a special agent who attends exclusively to the
> business of the principal and carries it on in the name of the principal and
> not a general agent who does business for anyone that pays him. Thus, a
> trader in the mofussil who habitually sends grain to Madras for sale by a
> firm of commission agents who have an independent business of selling goods
> for others on commission, cannot be said to 'carry on business' in Madras.
> So a firm in England, carrying on business in the name of A.B. & Co., which
> employs upon the usual terms a Bombay firm carrying on business in the name
> of C.D. & Co., to act as the English firm's commission agents in Bombay,
> does not 'carry on business' in Bombay so as to render itself liable to be
> sued in Bombay.
> (2) The person acting as agent must be an agent in the strict sense of the
> term. The manager of a joint Hindu family is not an 'agent' within the
> meaning of this condition.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 45 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 (3) To
constitute 'carrying on business' at a certain place, the essential part of
the business must take place in that place. Therefore, a retail dealer who
sells goods in the mofussil cannot be said to 'carry on business' in Bombay
merely because he has an agent in Bombay to import and purchase his stock for
him. He cannot be said to carry on business in Bombay unless his agent made
sales there on his behalf. A Calcutta firm that employs an agent at Amritsar
who has no power to receive money or to enter into contracts, but only
collects orders which are forwarded to and dealt with in Calcutta, cannot be
said to do business in Amritsar. But a Bombay firm that has a branch office at
Amritsar, where orders are received subject to confirmation by the head office
at Bombay, and where money is paid and disbursed, is carrying on business at
Amritsar and is liable to be sued at Amritsar. Similarly a life assurance
company which carries on business in Bombay and employs an agent at Madras who
acts merely as a post office forwarding proposals and sending moneys cannot be
said to do business in Madras. Where a contract of insurance was made at place
'A' and the insurance amount was also payable there, a suit filed at place 'B'
where the insurance company had a branch office was held not maintainable.
Where the plaintiff instituted a suit at Kozhikode alleging that its account
with the defendant Bank at its Calcutta branch had been wrongly debited and it
was claimed that that court had jurisdiction as the defendant had a branch
there, it was held that the existence of a branch was not part of the cause of
action and that the Kozhikode Court therefore had no jurisdiction. But when a
company though incorporated outside India gets itself registered in India and
does business in a place in India through its agent authorised to accept
insurance proposals, and to pay claims, and to do other business incidental to
the work of the agency, the company carries on business at the place of
business in India."
(Emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH
NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 46 of 54 Signing
Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
29\. That the afore-extracted passage, from Dhodha House8, constitutes an
authoritative enunciation of the expression "carries on business", as used in
Section 20 of the CPC, can hardly be gainsaid. Prima facie, this enunciation
of the law would also apply to the said expression, as it figures in Section
62 of the Copyright Act, or Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act.
30\. Having said that, however, it is also evident that the question of
whether, applying the tests, delineated in the above passage, the defendant
does, or does not, carry on business, at a particular place, is essentially a
question of fact. This is especially clear from criterion (3) which, as per
the afore-extracted passage, has to be satisfied, before the defendant can be
said to be "carrying on business" at a particular location. The case at hand
presents a textbook example. The plaintiff has placed, on record, the "Contact
Us" page on the website of the defendant, which carries the following recital:
> "REGISTERED OFFICE:
> ADDRESS:
> SP-825, Road No. 14, Vishwakarma Industrial Area, Jaipur 302013 (Rajasthan)
> Tel. No. 0141 2331771-2, Fax. 0141 2330810 E-mail: info@bajoriagroup.in
> REGISTRARS:
> ADDRESS:
Beetal House, 3rd Floor, 99 Madangir, Behind Local Shopping Centre, Near Dada
Harsukhdas Mandir, New Delhi-110062 Phone - 91-11-2996 1281-83 Fax -
91-11-2996 1284 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 47 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 E-mail: beetal@beetalfinancial.com COMPLIANCE OFFICER:
ADDRESS:
Ms Anisha Jain, SP-825, Road No. 14, Vishwakarma Industrial Area,
Jaipur-302013, (Rajasthan) Tel. No.: 0141-2331771/2 Fax. No.: 0141-2330810
E-mail: bajoriagroup@dataone.in"
Beetal House, New Delhi has, therefore, been reflected, on the website of the
defendant, as an address at which it can be contacted. Prima facie, therefore,
the defendant has an office at the said address. The nature of the said
office, and as to whether the defendant can be said to be "carrying on
business" at the said office, on the basis of the tests postulated in the
passage, from Dhodha House8, is a question of fact, which would have to be
decided on the basis of pleadings an evidence. Thereafter, it would have to be
ascertained as to whether the nature of the work transacted at the said office
is such as to substantiate the defendants contention that it does not "carry
on business" there. At this ad interim stage, I have to proceed on the basis
that, prima facie, the "Contact Us" page, on the website of the defendant,
reflects that it does carry on business at the Beetal House address, in New
Delhi.
31\. Apart from the judgements in Allied Blenders and Distillers v. R.K.
Distilleries1 and Allied Blenders and Distillers v. Prag Distillery Pvt Ltd2,
this Court has, consistently, been holding that, in quia timet intellectual
property actions, the mere apprehension of the likelihood of the defendant
launching the allegedly infringing product within the Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 48 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 territorial jurisdiction of
this Court, would confer jurisdiction, on this Court, to adjudicate the lis,
to wit, the judgements of the Division Bench of this Court in Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries v. Natco Pharma Ltd16, and of the learned Single
Judge in N. V. Distilleries Pvt Ltd v. Frost Falcon Distilleries Ltd17 and
Zenner International GMBH & Co. Kg3.
32\. Even on the anvil of Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, and Section 62
of the Copyright Act, therefore, as the cause of action has arisen within the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court, at least in part, it cannot be held,
at a prima facie ad interim stage, that the relief can be denied to the
plaintiff on the ground of want of territorial jurisdiction. Borrowing the
felicitous expression used in the two Allied Blenders judgements of this
Court, to which repeated reference has been made hereinbefore, it cannot be
said that the plea, of the plaintiff, that this Court has jurisdiction, is
"highly debatable and prima facie not tenable". It may be the former, but is
certainly not the latter, at least as per the situation which presents itself
on the facts pleaded in the plaint. Factors (i), (iii) and (iv), in para 6.2
supra, cited by the plaintiff as justification is for filing the present suit
before this Court, prima facie justify the invocation of its jurisdiction.
33\. On merits, the claim of the plaintiff, prima facie, merits acceptance. A
bare comparison, of the label of the "Officers Choice" label used by the
plaintiff, vis-à-vis the "Chetak" label used by the defendant, reveals that
they are deceptively similar. In both the labels,  16 210 (2014) DLT 591 (DB)
17 2019 (174) DRJ 700 : (2019) 77 PTC 333 (Del) Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020
Page 49 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
(i) there is a gold line, dividing the label into an upper and lower half,
(ii) the lower half has a red background, whereas the upper half as a white
background, (iii) the lettering, on the lower red half of the label, is in
white, and the lettering, in the upper white half of the label is in red, (iv)
the placement of the trademarks "Officers Choice" (in the case of the
plaintiff's label) and "Chetak", in the case of the defendant's label, are
similar, and covers a major portion of the upper white half of the label and
(v) both labels have an outer gold border. The overall appearance of the two
labels is, at a plain glance, similar, and constitutes, therefore, similar
trade dresses. The two labels are, therefore, deceptively similar, as
perceived by the man of average intelligence and imperfect recollection.
34\. The defendant in the written submission merely contends, in this regard,
that the name of the defendant's product was different from that of the
plaintiff's, there was the feature of a horse above the word "Chetak" in the
label of the defendant, and the packaging of the goods was different, as the
bottles were different in shape, size, and had different caps. These features
do not, however, prima facie, detract from the overall similarity in the
essential features of the labels used by the plaintiff and the defendant.
35\. The plaintiff has also placed, on record, orders passed by this Court, in
earlier suits, filed by the plaintiff, against defendants who were
manufacturing and selling Whisky, under labels which infringed the "Officers
Choice" trademark of the plaintiff. A tabular depiction, of these orders, with
the labels which were subject matter of consideration therein, is provided
thus: Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A.
4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 50 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 51 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
36\. The written submissions filed by the defendant to not dispute this
position. All that is said is that the orders, on which the plaintiff relies,
were either passed ex parte, or were passed in suits which were finally
settled.
37\. Be that as it may, it is an undeniable fact that the plaintiff has been
granted ad interim relief, by this Court, on multiple occasions, against the
defendants who were selling Whisky using labels which were deceptively similar
to the "Officers Choice" label of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed
By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 52 of 54
Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36 plaintiff, and which are also similar to the
label used by the present defendant on its "Chetak" Whisky.
38\. This fact, seen in the background of the admitted reflection, on the
website of the defendant, of the plaintiff's products - which the defendant
has, in its written submissions, sought to explain, by contending that it was
merely representing the work earlier done, by or for the plaintiff - clearly
indicates that a consumer, of average intelligence and imperfect recollection,
is likely to confuse the product of the defendant with that of the plaintiff.
39\. Additionally, I may note, the "triple identity" test also stands
satisfied in the present case, as the mark of the defendant is deceptively
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
C. HARI SHANKAR, J.
OCTOBER 15, 2020 HJ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH
NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 54 of 54 Signing
Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
                                                           Nidhi Singh, Ms. Smriti
                                                           Churiwal, Mr. Jaivir Sidhant
                                                           and Mr. Kinjal Bhatt, Advs.
                                CORAM:
                                HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE C.HARI SHANKAR
                                                                   ORDER
% I.A. 4397/2020
1\. The plaintiff is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of Indian Made
Foreign Liquor (IMFL), under various distinctive registered trademarks. The
present proceedings are concerned with IMFL manufactured and marketed, by the
plaintiff under the tradename "Officers Choice". The plaintiff alleges
infringement, by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 1 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 the defendant, of the trademark and trade label "Officers Choice" and
"Officers Choice Blue", registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
IMFL manufactured and marketed by it. It is also alleged that the defendant is
attempting to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff, and has also
violated the copyright, registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
the distinctive set up of the label, whereunder the plaintiff manufactures and
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
                                                           Nidhi Singh, Ms. Smriti
                                                           Churiwal, Mr. Jaivir Sidhant
                                                           and Mr. Kinjal Bhatt, Advs.
                                CORAM:
                                HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE C.HARI SHANKAR
                                                                   ORDER
% I.A. 4397/2020
1\. The plaintiff is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of Indian Made
Foreign Liquor (IMFL), under various distinctive registered trademarks. The
present proceedings are concerned with IMFL manufactured and marketed, by the
plaintiff under the tradename "Officers Choice". The plaintiff alleges
infringement, by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 1 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 the defendant, of the trademark and trade label "Officers Choice" and
"Officers Choice Blue", registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
IMFL manufactured and marketed by it. It is also alleged that the defendant is
attempting to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff, and has also
violated the copyright, registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
the distinctive set up of the label, whereunder the plaintiff manufactures and
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
                                                           Nidhi Singh, Ms. Smriti
                                                           Churiwal, Mr. Jaivir Sidhant
                                                           and Mr. Kinjal Bhatt, Advs.
                                CORAM:
                                HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE C.HARI SHANKAR
                                                                   ORDER
% I.A. 4397/2020
1\. The plaintiff is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of Indian Made
Foreign Liquor (IMFL), under various distinctive registered trademarks. The
present proceedings are concerned with IMFL manufactured and marketed, by the
plaintiff under the tradename "Officers Choice". The plaintiff alleges
infringement, by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 1 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 the defendant, of the trademark and trade label "Officers Choice" and
"Officers Choice Blue", registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
IMFL manufactured and marketed by it. It is also alleged that the defendant is
attempting to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff, and has also
violated the copyright, registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
the distinctive set up of the label, whereunder the plaintiff manufactures and
clears its products. Accordingly, the suit prays for a permanent injunction,
restraining the defendant from dealing, in any manner, with any material,
containing any artistic work, identical or substantially similar to the
artistic work contained in the "Officers Choice" and Officers Choice Blue"
labels of the plaintiff, as well as from dealing in any goods bearing the
trademark "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue", or any deceptively
similar mark.
2\. Summons have been issued in the suit, and notice in I.A. 4397/2020,
preferred by the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). Pleadings, in the suit as well as in the I.A.,
are being completed before the learned Joint Registrar. The order, dated 20th
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
                                                  Through: Mr. Rashmin Khandekar, Ms.
                                                           Nidhi Singh, Ms. Smriti
                                                           Churiwal, Mr. Jaivir Sidhant
                                                           and Mr. Kinjal Bhatt, Advs.
                                CORAM:
                                HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE C.HARI SHANKAR
                                                                   ORDER
% I.A. 4397/2020
1\. The plaintiff is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of Indian Made
Foreign Liquor (IMFL), under various distinctive registered trademarks. The
present proceedings are concerned with IMFL manufactured and marketed, by the
plaintiff under the tradename "Officers Choice". The plaintiff alleges
infringement, by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI
I.A. 4397/2020 IN CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 1 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020
17:36:36 the defendant, of the trademark and trade label "Officers Choice" and
"Officers Choice Blue", registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
IMFL manufactured and marketed by it. It is also alleged that the defendant is
attempting to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff, and has also
violated the copyright, registered in the plaintiff's favour, in respect of
the distinctive set up of the label, whereunder the plaintiff manufactures and
clears its products. Accordingly, the suit prays for a permanent injunction,
restraining the defendant from dealing, in any manner, with any material,
containing any artistic work, identical or substantially similar to the
artistic work contained in the "Officers Choice" and Officers Choice Blue"
labels of the plaintiff, as well as from dealing in any goods bearing the
trademark "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue", or any deceptively
similar mark.
2\. Summons have been issued in the suit, and notice in I.A. 4397/2020,
preferred by the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). Pleadings, in the suit as well as in the I.A.,
are being completed before the learned Joint Registrar. The order, dated 20th
similar to the trademark of the plaintiff, they are being used on identical
goods, and these goods are sold through similar trade channels and are
available at the same outlets.
40\. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that, pending hearing and
final disposal of the present I.A., the plaintiff is entitled to ad interim
relief, in terms of the prayers in the present application.
41\. Accordingly, there shall be an ad interim injunction, restraining the
defendant from using, manufacturing, selling, exporting, importing, offering
for sale, distributing or otherwise dealing in any product, under the impugned
"Chetak" label, or under any trademark or tradename which is deceptively
similar to the "Officers Choice" and "Officers Choice Blue" trademarks,
registered in favour of the plaintiff.
Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI  I.A. 4397/2020 IN
CS (COMM) 166/2020 Page 53 of 54 Signing Date:16.10.2020 17:36:36
42\. I have been informed that pleadings in this I.A. have been completed.
Accordingly, list on 21st October, 2020 for hearing and disposal.
