Delhi High Court
Formula One World Championship ... vs Commissioner Of Income Tax, ... on 30
November, 2016
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                       Reserved on: 15.11.2016
                                     Pronounced on: 30.11.2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10307/2016, C.M. APPL.40563/2016 & 40564/2016
           FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP LIMITED
                                                              ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, INTERNATIONAL
           TAXATION-3 & ANR.                           ..... Respondents
    +      W.P.(C) 9509/2016, C.M. APPL.38021/2016, 41063/2016,
           41235/2016 & 41236/2016
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX INTERNATIONAL
           TAXATION-3, DELHI                    ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP LTD. & ANR.
                                                     ..... Respondents
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
           JAIPRAKASH ASSOCIATES LTD.                   ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                   ..... Respondent
                           Through : Sh. S. Ganesh, Sr. Advocate with Ms.
                           Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Sh. Sachit
                           Jolly, Sh. Gautam Swarup, Sh. Siddhartha Singh
                           and Sh. Amaya Pant, Advocates, for petitioner in
                           W.P.(C) 10307/2016 and for Respondent No.1 in
                           W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016.
                                   Sh. Arvind Datar, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Kamal
                                   Deep Dayal, Sh. Ankur Saigal and Sh. Shayan,
                                   Advocates, for JAL.
                                   Sh. G.C. Shrivastava, Sr. Standing Counsel and Sh.
                                   Rahul Chaudhary, Sr. Standing Counsel, for
                                   Income Tax Department.
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                  Page 1
            CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
    MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
    %
    1.     This judgment would dispose of three writ petitions: WP 9509/2016 (preferred by
    the Commissioner of Income Tax, hereafter "the revenue's petition"; WP 10145/2016
    (preferred by Jaypee Sports International Limited, hereafter called "Jaypee") and WP
    10307/2016 (Formula One World Championship Limited (FOWC) hereafter called "the
    F1 Championship Ltd" petition). Both Jaypee and FOWC had filed applications before
    the Authority for Advance Ruling ("AAR"). The AAR held one question in favour of the
    revenue and the other question in favour of the said two companies. All three parties
    have, thus approached this court, under Article 226 of the Constitution.
    2.     A brief background of the facts is necessary. FOWC is a UK tax resident company
    incorporated on 7 March 2001. Consequent to agreements entered into between the
    Federation Internationale de I‟Automobile ("FIA" an international motor sports events
    regulating association), Formula One Asset Management Limited („FOAM‟) and FOWC,
    FOAM licensed all commercial rights in the FIA Formula One World Championship
    (Championship‟) to FOWC for 100-year term effective from 1 January 2011. FOWC
    entered into a "Race Promotion Contract" („RPC‟) dated 13 September 2011, by which it
    granted to Jaypee Sports the right („Right‟) to host, stage and promote the Formula One
    Grand Prix of India event for a consideration of USD 40 millions. An Artworks License
    Agreement (ALA) contemplated in RPC was also entered into between FOWC and
    Jaypee the same day, i.e. 13.09.2011, permitting the use of certain marks and intellectual
    property belonging to FOWC for a consideration of USD 1. The RPC of 2011 was
    preceded by another RPC of 25-10-2007; FOWC and Jaypee signed it.
    3.     FIA is a regulatory body; it regulates the FIA Formula One World Championship
    which has been the premier form of motor racing since its inception in 1950. The formula,
    so called is with reference to a set of rules that all participants' cars must conform to. F1
    seasons consist of a series of races, known as Grand Prix (from French, meaning grand
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                             Page 2
     prizes), held across the world on specially designed and built F1 circuits across 26
    different locales.
    4.      F1 Grand Prix events are held under the aegis of the FIA F1World championship's
    competition -in which F1 racing cars, assembled and manufactured strictly in terms of the
    F1 Technical regulations, compete against each other, under F1 Sporting Regulations and
    the F1 International Sporting Code framed and made effective by the FIA. F1 drivers
    across the world have the ability, competence and skill to drive an F1 car and participate
    in F1 racing events. About 12 to 15 teams typically compete in these championships in
    any one annual racing season. Some celebrated and well-known participants are the
    Ferrari, McLain, Red Bull teams etc. The teams assemble and construct their vehicles,
    which comply with defined technical specifications and engage drivers who can
    successfully maneuver the F1 cars in the racing events. All teams known as
    "Constructors" enter into a contract, known as the "Concorde Agreement" with FOWC
    and the FIA. In these agreements they undertake to participate to the best of their ability,
    in every F1 event included in the official annual F1 racing calendar. They also bind
    themselves to an unequivocal negative covenant with FOWC that they would not
    participate in any other similar motor racing event whatsoever nor would they promote in
    any manner any other rival event. The F1 racing teams exclusively participate in about 19
    to 21 listed F1 annual racing events on the official racing calendar, set by the FIA. This is,
    in effect, a closed circuit event since no team other than those bound by contract with
    FOWC are permitted participation.
    5.      Every F1 racing event is hosted, promoted and staged by a promoter with whom
    FOWC as the right holder, enters into contract and whose event is nominated by the CRH
    (i.e Contract Right Holder, which is in effect, FOWC), to the FIA for inclusion in the
    official F1 racing calendar. In other words FOWC is the exclusive nominating body at
    whose instance the event promoter is permitted participation. The points scored by each
    F1 racing team in every event is listed in the official racing calendar and it counts towards
    the Constructors championship and the Driver's championship for the racing season as a
    whole. Any team‟s position in these championships at the end of the season determines,
    together with certain other factors which are elaborately dealt with in the Concorde
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                             Page 3
     agreement,(which in the present instance, was latest in the series of Concorde agreements
    the last being the one of 2009) the prize money payable to the teams for their participation
    during the season. Grant of a right to host, stage and promote the F1 racing event
    therefore carries with it a covenant or representation that F1 racing teams with their cars,
    drivers and other auxiliary and supporting staff will participate in the motor racing event
    hosted at the promoter's motor racing circuit displaying the highest levels of technical
    skill achievement etc. in the fields of construction of single seat motorcars to attain the
    highest levels of performance in the world. These teams and the FOWC also represent
    that the highest levels of skill in racing management and maintenance of the cars would
    be on display in the event. All these are a part of the relevant contractual provisions,
    embodied in RPC 2011.
    6.     FOWC and Jaypee both approached the AAR as did other entities such as Beta
    Prema 2 (BP2); All Sports Management (Allsport); and Formula One Management
    (FOM) with other applications. This judgment is not concerned with the applications that
    sought advance ruling filed by other entities; the fate of those is apparently pending
    consideration. The queries made for consideration and decision by the authority by
    FOWC and Jaypee were firstly whether the payment of consideration receivable by
    FOWC outside India in terms of RPC from Jaypee was or was not royalty as defined in
    Article 13 of the Avoidance of Double taxation agreement entered into between the
    Government of UK and the Republic of India ("the DTAA") and secondly whether
    FOWC was justified in its position that it did not have a permanent establishment (PE) in
    India in terms of Article 5 of the DTAA. A subsidiary question was whether any part of
    the consideration received or receivable from Jaypee by FOWC outside India was subject
    to tax at source under section 195 of the Indian income tax Act.
    7.     The submissions of FOWC and Jaypee on the question of amounts received by the
    former were that the entire consideration received/ receivable under the RPC was in
    nature of business income and not 'royalty' as defined both under the Act and the DTAA
    because what was granted to Jaypee was a commercial right (i.e. hosting right) and the
    consideration received/ receivable by FOWC was not for use of trademark, copyright,
    equipment, etc and hence, was not in the nature of 'royalty'. It was contended, in this
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                            Page 4
     context that no separate consideration was payable by Jaypee for the limited permitted use
    of Formula One ('F1 ') Mark which was only to enable the Promoter to advertise the
    Indian Grand Prix. It was routine and customary in business parlance to reproduce the
    names (of sports events) in the same manner as they were known to the public at large. As
    a consequence, the Artwork License Agreement ('ALA') was executed solely to enable
    the Promoter for a limited use of F1 marks and to prevent it from using the marks for any
    commercial exploitation. Such grant was similar to sale of prepackaged or branded
    product; the main emphasis is sale of the product, the use of the mark was part of the sale.
    The applicants relied on Para 10.1 of the OECD commentary on Article 12 of the Model
    Convention which states that payments for the exclusive distribution rights of a product or
    a service do not constitute royalties. Furthermore, according to FOWC, the sporting event
    was known by the name F1 World Championship world over due to its fame and
    reputation. The applicants - Jaypee and FOWC relied on Dy Director of Income Tax v.
    Sheraton International Inc (2009) 313 ITR 276, of this Court. The court had held that as
    long as the main object of the agreement did not relate to the use of the trademark, the
    amount could not be characterized as royalty payment for use of trademark. The
    applicants also relied on a tribunal decision in Harvard Medical International USA
    ('HMI') (2011) (13 ITR 503). Apart from this, it was emphasized that the definition of
    royalty under the lndia-UK Tax Treaty is narrower than the definition under the Act. The
    transactions in question involve payment of a lump sum amount, which does not involve
    any payment dependent upon the use of the mark. As the consideration received by
    FOWC was a lump sum amount for granting to Jaypee the right to host, stage and
    promote the event, it did not qualify as 'royalty' under the provisions of the lndia-UK Tax
    Treaty. Reliance was placed on this court's judgement in Director of Income Tax Vs.
    Ericsson A.B (2012) (343 ITR 470).
    8.     The revenue had opposed the arguments of the applicants and urged that the
    principles enunciated in Sheraton's case were inapplicable because the consideration
    comprised of both, hosting rights and permitted use of F1 Marks and the entire
    consideration of US$ 40 million was attributable to the usage of F1 Marks in terms of the
    ALA. The revenue submitted that the RPC and Artwork License Agreement had to be
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                            Page 5
     read together for a comprehensive view of the matter. The applicants deliberately did not
    make reference to the ALA in question though it was also entered into between the parties
    on the same day i.e. 13.09.2011.
    9.     There was no agreement between FOWC and Formula One Licensing B.V.,
    proprietor of the trade marks, for transfer or licensing of such rights in favour of FOWC.
    The license was given by FOWC to Jaypee for the permitted use, in the territory, of the
    licensed marks and materials. The licensed marks and materials are defined to include
    marks stated above. The "permitted use" is defined to mean incidental use of the licensed
    marks strictly for the purpose of hosting, staging and promoting the event. It was
    furthermore argued that from a combined reading of Concorde and other agreements what
    emerged was that Jaypee did not have to make any payment to FOWC for hosting,
    staging and promoting any motor racing event. The payment became necessary for one
    and the only reason that the mark of "Formula One World Championship" or "Grand Prix
    of India" was to be used to make the event a part of the calendar of F1 World
    Championship. It was also asserted that the marks were not used in a secondary manner,
    or incidentally, rather, Jaypee used the marks prominently because of their fame and
    reputation. Licensing of the mark gave Jaypee the right to hold the F1 championship or
    Grand Prix of India event. This position was also supported by the fact that the promoter's
    rights stipulated in the Concorde agreement clearly list out as being (i) right to promote
    the event. (ii) right to designate the event as Formula One Championship event. Given the
    relative lack of knowledge of the F1 sporting event, use of the mark became crucial and
    necessary. The crowds visiting the circuit or watching from home were drawn towards the
    name F1, which they were familiar with and not the car or circuit specifications that the
    event associates itself with. The revenue arising from the commercial rights, be it sale of
    tickets, advertisement rights or broadcasting rights are, therefore, all attributable to the
    name of the event more than anything else.
    10.    The revenue also urged that the definition of royalty both under the Indian
    Income-tax Act as well as the DTAA encompasses within its ambit the use of trademark
    among other things. It may be noted that there is no qualification to suggest that the use
    must be incidental, primary, permitted or registered. As regards the issue of its taxability,
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                             Page 6
     it was submitted that the subject income is taxable in India under the Act under Section
    9(1)(vi)(b) since it was paid by a resident (Jaypee) to a non-resident as a consideration for
    the utilization of the intellectual property for the purpose of carrying on business in India
    or for the purpose of earning any income from any source in India. The property here is a
    trademark of a sporting event. When the sporting event is held and the mark is used to
    attract people with that mark, it is nothing but the commercial exploitation leading to
    generation of revenue.
    11.    The AAR, after hearing the parties and considering the materials on record,
    concluded that the amounts paid were "royalty" on the basis of the following findings:
           "27. The first question in both applications relate to characterization of
           consideration of USD 40 million received by FOWC in the first year under
           the terms of RPC from Jaypee, i.e. whether it is in the nature of royalty
           under Article 13 of lndia-UK Tax Treaty. Jaypee had constructed a
           racing circuit in Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority.
           Jaypee signed the RPC on 13.9.2011 with FOWC and on the same day
           Jaypee also entered into an Art Work License (ALA) agreement with
           FOWC. We have reproduced some relevant clauses of RPC and ALA
           earlier and wherever necessary we will reproduce again the relevant
           clauses at appropriate place to understand the issue in proper perspective.
           The RPC mentions that FOWC has the exclusive right to enter into
           contracts solely for the 'hosting, staging and promoting' of 'Formula One
           Grand Prix' events. FOWC has the exclusive right to exploit the
           commercial right in the championship, including the exclusive right to
           propose the championship calendars and to award to promoters the right
           to host, stage and promote Formula One Grand Prix events ............ The
           RPC gives right to Jaypee to host, stage and promote the 'event' as per
           clause 4.1 of RPC. The event has been defined in clause 1 (t) of RPC
           saying that 'event shall mean the Formula One Grand Prix of India'. RPC
           itself envisages signing of a separate AlA for incidental use of certain of
           the marks and intellectual property belonging to FOWC in Clause 23.2.
           28.    It is relevant to point out that as per ALA, FOWC is providing
           Jaypee several of its intellectual property like event programme covers,
           templates for posters, official stationery, media kits etc. and licenced
           marks including FORMULA ONE GRAND PRIX of INDIA which is the
           name of event organized (host, stage and promote) by Jaypee.
           29.    It may be mentioned that the consideration as per RPC is USD $
           40 m and consideration as per ALA is USD $ 1 , though both agreements
           were signed on the same date and relate to the same event promoted by
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                             Page 7
            Jaypee. It is only on the basis of ALA that Jaypee is able to organize the
           event which is called Formula One Grand Prix of India and is able to use
           all intellectual properties belonging to FOWC necessarily required to
           stage, host & promote the event. It is unthinkable that the event called
           Formula One Grand Prix of India can be organized in the absence of
           ALA. Use of this mark is sine qua non for organizing this event otherwise
           the event will not be known as 'event' in terms of RPC.
           30.     The above mentioned facts clearly establish that art work license
           agreement, though signed separately, is integral to RPC. It was not a
           standalone agreement. Clause 23.2 of RPC stipulated that Jaypee &
           FOWC shall enter into art work agreement permitting incidental use of
           certain of the marks and other intellectual property belonging to FOWC.
           Insufficiency of consideration in ALC cannot diminish its prime
           importance and relevance in the context of use of marks and intellectual
           property of Jaypee. In such a situation the stand of the applicants that the
           use of the marks permitted by the art works agreement is purely incidental
           to the RPC as mentioned in clause 23.2 is not a correct description of the
           facts. The nomenclature in the agreement cannot decide the main purpose
           of the contract. The settled position of law is that the dominant intention of
           the parties is to be seen as decided by the apex Court in the case of
           Sundaram Finance Ltd. v/s State of Kerala 1977 13 SCC 17. The Court
           ruled in para 24 that "The true effect of a transaction may be determined
           from the terms of the agreement considered in the light of the surrounding
           circumstances. In each case, the Court has, unless prohibited by statute,
           power to go behind the documents and to determine the nature of the
           transaction whatever may be the form of the documents'. The important
           point is to ascertain the dominant intention of the parties to RPC and art
           work license agreement. FOWC has tried to project that the promoter's
           intention is to host various sports events, as part of the sports city
           developed by it and to keep the circuit occupied by hosting various such
           events and attract people to buy real estate around the sports city. This is
           completely imaginary and is nowhere reflected in RPC or ALC. We cannot
           import such imagination in RPC or ALA in order to know the intention of
           the parties to the agreement. The intention has to come out from the
           agreement and purpose of the agreement. FOWC has further submitted
           that the promoter is 'hosting, staging and promoting the 'Indian GP'.
           There is nothing like Indian GP. The only event as per the agreement is
           Formula One Grade Prix of India. We cannot accept any other name for
           the event. The use of words 'Indian GP' has been done by FOWC only to
           show that Jaypee's intention was to host various events. This does not
           come out from RPC or ALC. The fact remains that Jaypee is staging an
           event which is called Formula One Grand Prix of India which, in turn is
           the licensed mark of FOWC as per Art work license agreement. RPC
           clearly and conclusively show that FOWC granted licence to Jaypee for
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                              Page 8
            limited purpose of organizing Formula Grand Prix of India event only and
           for no other event. Therefore, irrespective of other limitations imposed by
           clause 23.2 & 23.3 of RPC the licensed mark of Formula One Grand Prix
           of India and other intellectual property has been actually used by Jaypee.
           In these circumstances the creation of a separate agreement known as art
           work license agreement with a nominal and insignificant consideration of
           US $ 1 is purely artificial. Similarly, the use of words like 'incidental use'
           in these agreements will also not hide the dominant purpose. The
           definition of royalty in the lndo-UK DTAA covers 'payments of any kind
           received as a consideration for the use of .......... trade mark'. Section
           9(1)(VI) of the Income-tax Act also covers use of trade mark under
           royalty. Therefore, the payments.made by Jaypee for use of trade mark
           called Formula One Grand Prix of India in the event hosted by them is in
           the nature of royalty."
           *****************
********************
37\. We have given serious thought to the proposition formulated as above. The
art work agreement also mentions that Formula One licensing BV, Netherlands,
is the owner of trademarks as mentioned in clause 3.3. There is no written
agreement between FOWC and Formula One licensing BV for transfer of such
rights in favour of FOWC. It is also relevant to point out that there is no
written agreement between Jaypee and the proprietor of trademarks i.e. Formula
one licencing BV for use of trade marks. These facts were confirmed repeatedly
by Shri Pardiwala, the counsel of FOWC during the course of hearing and
confirmed by him in the letter dated 19.7.2016. Mr. Datar presumes that
because the artwork agreement mentions the words "permitted use" in clause 2.1
and defines "permitted use" as incidental use of the licenced mark solely as
part of the artwork and the licenced material in clause 1.1, Jaypee is a
permitted user under section 48(2) of the trademarks Act, 1999. We are afraid
this is not a correct proposition. The trademarks act defines 'permitted use'
in section 2(1 )(r), reproduced earlier, and this definition must be read in
conjunction with section 48(2). The definition of 'permitted use' in this Act
of 1999 is different from the definition given in section 2(1)(m) of the 1958
Act. The 1999 Act enlarges the scope of permitted use to commercial use of a
mark not only by the registered user, but also by an unregistered licencee who
becomes entitled to use the mark by virtue of a written agreement with the
registered proprietor. The law makes it clear that such use by a unregistered
licencee should comply with the conditions or limitations to which such use is
subject to in terms of the agreement, besides conditions or limitations to
which the registration of a trademark itself is a subject with JPSIL As a
matter of fact, the applicant has submitted that Formula One Licensing BV has
only entered into an oral arrangement with FOWC for the transfer of trademark.
As per the above provisions, since the user (Jaypee) has not entered into any
agreement W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 9
with the registered proprietor, the condition of 'permitted use' is not met
and consequently Jaypee cannot be regarded as a permitted user within the
meaning of section 2 (r)(ii) of the TM Act. The provisions of section 48(2)
cannot be invoked in the case of an entity which is not a permitted user
within the meaning of that Act. The deeming fiction of section 48 (2) cannot
be pressed into service into cases of this nature.
b. The deeming fiction of section 48(2) can also not be extended to the
provisions contained in section 9(1)(vi) for the reason that Explanation 5 to
section 9(1)(vi) introduced by the Finance Act of 2012 provides that Royalty
shall be deemed to arise whether the property is used directly or not. The
implication of the Explanation would be that even if the property is deemed to
be used by the proprietor and not by the licensee, it can still be regarded as
indirect use of the property as the benefits of such use are flowing to the
licensee and he has agreed to pay consideration to the licensor in lieu of the
'indirect' use of the property. If the interpretation of the applicant is
accepted and the deeming fiction under section 48(2) is to be read in all
circumstances and for the purposes of all existing laws irrespective of the
context and purpose of enactment of this provision in the TM Act, the
consequences would be that the use by the licensee would be of no consequence
as the licensee, by the legal fiction so provided , would be deemed to have
never used it, though in fact he may have actually used it. The definition of
royalty under the Income Tax Act specifically includes the 'granting of a
license' to use the IPR. If the fiction is imported under the IT Act, it would
mean that the use by the licensee is the use by the proprietor. Such an
interpretation leads to manifestly absurd results. It hits at the very root of
the relationship between the licensor and the licensee in the context of IPRs
and destroys the very concept of Royalty in this context. Such an
interpretation is impermissible.
c. The object of law relating to Trade Marks is to protect the intellectual
properties and the rights of the owner/proprietor thereof. Section 48(2) also
enacts the deeming fiction to protect such rights and to regulate the
relationship between different parties in law The reference to 'other law'
comes with the same object in The definition is in two parts. The first part
is in respect of the use of a trademark by a registered user. The second part
is in respect of the use of trademark by a person other than the registered
proprietor and registered user by consent of such registered proprietor in a
written agreement and complies with any conditions or limitations to which
such user is subject and to which the registration of the trademark is
subject. It is relevant to point out that the 'consent' envisaged in section
2(1)(r) signed is not oral, but by a written agreement. Against this backdrop
we may consider the facts of this case. The proprietor of the trademark in
this case is Formula One licensing BV W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 10 which has admittedly not entered into any written
agreement with Jaypee. In fact, it has not entered any kind of agreement with
Jaypee, not even oral. Even FOWC has not entered into any written agreement
with the proprietor and during the course of hearing Mr. Pardiwala confirmed
that there is no written agreement in respect of use of trademark between the
proprietor and FOWC and/or between the proprietor and Jaypee. Therefore, in
terms of provisions of the section Jaypee would not be a permitted user under
the trademark Act. In view of this legal position we cannot agree with Mr.
Datar that section 48(2) of the Trademark Act will apply only on the basis of
artwork agreement where Jaypee has been mentioned as the permitted user. This
cannot be accepted because if the benefit of section 48(2) of the Trade Marks
Act is to be obtained, Jaypee has to be a permitted user as per the provisions
of this Act and admittedly it is not. Once such a conclusion is reached, there
is no need to deal with other objections raised by the Department of Revenue
i.e., the definition of royalty as given in Explanation 5 to section 9(1)(vi)
of the Income Tax Act and the context in which 'any other law' came to be used
in the Trademarks Act. The fact is that Jaypee is not the permitted user under
the law and therefore, it is not entitled to take recourse to provisions
relating to permitted user in section 48(2) of the Trademarks Act."
12\. On the second question, i.e whether FOWC had a PE in India under any of
the paragraphs of Article 5 of the DTAA, the applicants (FOWC and Jaypee)
asserted that no such PE existed because the revenue had to first establish
that under Article 5(1) of the lndia-UK DTAA, FOWC had a fixed place of
business in India and that it carried on business in India through such fixed
place. FOWC stated that its only place of business is its office in UK and it
did not have any fixed place of business or office in India. By granting the
right to host, stage and promote the race, to Jaypee it did 'business with a
party that is a resident of India'. It did not undertake any business
operations (or part thereof) in India. FOWC stated that its business was
limited to a grant outside India of the right to Jaypee and after such grant
of right, it could host, stage and promote the F1 event in accordance with the
FIA regulations. Arguendo if the limited access at the circuit granted to FOWC
by Jaypee amounted a fixed place it would come into existence only at the time
when the race is held which is after grant of right by FOWC. In this context,
it was argued that a mere provision in the RPC for Jaypee to allow access to
FOWC and its affiliates to the circuit prior to and during the F1 event could
not make the circuit (which belongs to the Promoter) as a place at the FOWC'S
disposal. Added to this was the W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 11 uncertainty as to the staging of the event on a
regular basis, which could not result in bringing into existence, a fixed
place PE of FOWC. The permanence test is with respect to both place of
business (i.e. permanence of location) and duration (i.e. the business
activities must be more than temporary in nature). FOWC also argued that it
did not have any agent dependent or otherwise in India engaged in habitually
concluding any contracts on its behalf in India. Therefore, Article 5(4) of
the DTAA also did not apply. Likewise, the threshold conditions for
applicability of Article 5(2)(i) of the DTAA were unmet and, hence, the
'Service PE' test too failed.
13\. FOWC argued that merely because Jaypee entered into contractual
arrangements with FOWC‟s affiliates, which were conditions precedent to the
RPC, it did not extend the scope of its role nor did it result in its
possessing, or operating from a fixed place of business in India. Each
affiliate entered into independent commercial arrangements with Jaypee and no
rights flowed from FOWC to 'BP2' or Allsport either under the FIA- FOAM-FOWC
agreements or under the Concorde Agreement in relation to revenues earned by
BP2 and Allsport with respect to the Indian GP. Circuit and other rights
(which BP2 and Allsport exploited) arose by virtue of the ownership of the
circuit, which was that of Jaypee; those rights could be exploited only when
granted by it. They were neither Championship rights (emanating from the FIA)
nor were they covered by the above- mentioned Agreements. Jaypee‟s grant of
rights to BP2 and Allsport was a legitimate independent transaction consistent
with the legal ownership of those rights. Jaypee and FOWC engaged FOM
independently for the production of feed and data and other support services.
For these reasons, FOWC urged that activities undertaken by each of the
affiliates independently and on their own account and did not constitute its
PE. It was also argued that even if they were dependent agents of FOWC their
place of business could not be a PE of the principal i.e. FOWC.
14\. The revenue argued that for deciding fixed place of business in terms of
Article 5 it is adequate if the place is at the disposal of the enterprise to
be used in business. He has referred to paragraph 4 of OECD commentary as
under:-
"4. It is immaterial whether the premises, facilities or installations are
owned or rented by or are otherwise at the disposal of the enterprise....
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 12 Again the
place of business may be situated in the business facilities of another
enterprise.
4\. 1 As noted above, the mere fact that an enterprise has a certain amount of
space at its disposal which is used for business activities is sufficient to
constitute a place of business. No formal/legal right to use that place is
therefore required."
15\. It was further argued that a fixed place PE may also be constituted if
dependant agents work for and on behalf of the enterprise from the place made
available to the enterprise and in such a situation it may not be necessary to
examine the PE under para 4 or 5 of Article 5 and to apply more stringent
conditions of having authority to conclude contracts. Reference was made to
para 10 of OECD commentary; it reads as follows:
> "The business of an enterprise is carried on mainly by the entrepreneur or
> persons who are in a paid-employment relationship with the enterprise
> personnel. This personnel includes employees and other persons receiving
> instructions from the enterprise (e.g. dependent agents). The powers of such
> personnel in its relationship with third parties are irrelevant. It makes no
> difference whether or not the dependent agent is authorised to conclude
> contracts if he works at the fixed place of business (see paragraph 35
> below).
> "35. Under paragraph 5, only those persons who meet the specific conditions
> may create a permanent establishment; all other persons are excluded. It
> should be borne in mind, however, that paragraph 5 simply provides an
> alternative test of whether an enterprise has a permanent establishment in a
> State. If it can be shown that the enterprise has a permanent establishment
> within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 2 (subject to the provisions of
> paragraph 4), it is not necessary to show that the person in charge is one
> who would fall under paragraph 5."
16\. With regard to duration of the business reliance on Para 6 of the OECD
commentary was placed; it reads as follows:
> "A place of business may, however, constitute a permanent establishment even
> though it exists, in practice, only for a very short period of time because
> the nature of the business is such that it will only be carried on for that
> short period of time."
17\. According to the revenue, FOWC‟s business is to exploit commercial rights
arising from races and this business is carried on through exploitation of
these commercial rights either by itself or through any one or more members of
CRH group as W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page
13 mentioned in the Concorde Agreement to say that FOWC is obligated to
propose consolidated accounts incorporating profits of all entities forming
part of CRH group. Reference was made to the fact that commercial rights were
originally owned by FIA, transferred in 2001 to SLEC Holding Company (parent
company of FOWC) for a consideration, then given to FOAM and w.e.f. 1.1.2011
transferred to FOWC. It was pointed out that on the one hand, the organization
Agreement between FINFMSCI was entered into on 20.01.2011, the RPC and the
Artworks License Agreement are dated 13.09.2011 Going by RPC dated
·13.09.2011, it is evident that GP contract did not exist on the date of the
signing of the Organization Agreement in January 2011. The recital (B) in the
Organization Agreement reads as under:
"The Promoter has entered into an agreement with the Commercial Rights Holder
to promote the event."
18\. The revenue asserted that FOWC‟s stand that its agreement (RPC) was
entered into with Jaypee on 13.09.2011 is inexplicable, having regard to the
above Recital in the Organization Agreement in January 2011 by reference to
the RPC of September 2011. Secondly, on lines similar to the RPC of September
2011, was an agreement dated 25.10.2007, between FOAL and JPSK Sports Pvt.,
Ltd. This agreement is in tune with the Format provided under Schedule 4 of
the Concorde Agreement. It is plain that FIA could sign the Organization
Agreement in January 2011 only on the basis that the Promoter had already
entered into GP contract with FOAM (predecessor of FOWC) in 2007. Thirdly,
discrepancies and omissions in the RPC of 2011 as opposed to the RPC of 2007
were pointed out. The revenue, to say that FOWC had a PE in India underlined
all these facts. The fixed place- according to the revenue is the Buddha
circuit in Greater Noida and owned by Jaypee which was designed and
constructed in terms of RPC dated 25.10.2007 and RPC dated 13.9.2011 is only
continuation of earlier arrangement. The revenue also stated that clause 11 of
the RPC dated 13.9.2011 makes available to FOWC and other entities access to
circuit, clause 8.1 obliges Jaypee to allocate promotional area in such a
manner as FOWC shall specify, access to restricted area is regulated by passes
and tabards issued by FOWC. He has also submitted that International Broadcast
is one of the major commercial rights which vests in FOWC and because the
promoter has set up a W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 14 media compound and installations necessary for national and
international commentators, such business is also made available to FOWC at
the circuit.
19\. The revenue further stated that that the three affiliates of FOWC, i.e.
Formula One Management Ltd. ('FOM'), Allsports Management SA and Beta Prema 2
Ltd. are its three agents who had carried on business of FOWC on its behalf,
through the fixed place. It was contended that that all commercial rights
originally vested and were granted to only FOWC under the Concorde agreement,
with a stipulation that FOWC may transfer or assign such rights only to other
group entities. It has further said that the commercial rights could only stay
within the Commercial Rights Holder group (CRH group), which included FOWC,
its affiliates and other entities. These three group entities have acted for
and on behalf of Jaypee, which did not get anything from these arrangements
and these entities were not holders of commercial rights. Therefore, these
entities acted for and on behalf of FOWC. According to the revenue, FOM was
business manager of FOWC, it had a business management agreement with FOWC,
146 employees of FOM were in India for 40 days and based on these facts
Revenue's counsel has concluded that FOM managed the entire business of FOWC
in lndia. As regards All Sports too, which carried out sale of tickets it
acted on behalf of FOWC because no commercial rights were transferred to it. A
like inference had to be drawn in case of Beta Prema 2 because it exploited
certain commercial rights available only with FOWC. The revenue submitted that
a PE gets constituted under Article 5(4) of DTAA also for the reason that FOM
is agent and business manager of FOWC and Beta Prema 2 and All Sports have no
independent status.
15\. The AAR‟s findings on the question of existence of a PE in India, of the
FOWC, are as follows:
> "47. Determination of PE is question of fact and the provisions of Article 5
> of DTAA lay down several tests. If an enterprise qualifies to be PE on these
> laid down tests then only it can be considered to have a PE and in that case
> only that portion of income will be taxable in the country of PE which is
> attributable to PE. Under Article 5(1) the first test is place of business
> test. Its concept in terms of PE can be seen as any substantial, physical
> object which is commercially suitable to serve as the basis of business
> activity. It also encompasses separate part of an enterprise, foreign
> branches or place of management or office etc. Revenue's contention that
> mere access to the racing circuit owned by JP amounts to W.P.(C) 10307/2016,
> W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 15 place of business through
> which business activity of FOWC is carried out is completely misleading.
> FOWC is commercial rights holder and has to be necessarily involved in
> design of the circuit and other related activates from the beginning so that
> required specifications for Formula One Grand Prix events are maintained in
> design and build of the circuit. Equating such access with the place of
> business is not at all appropriate. Moreover, as per RPC the promoter is to
> ensure that the pit and paddock buildings and surrounding areas with circuit
> and land are open to receive competitors, FOWC, Affiliates of FOWC, FOWC's
> contractors and licensees and their respective personnel and equipment. This
> is to facilitate the work relating to event. This does not mean that all
> entities getting access to the circuit have PE. Such an inference will be
> completely misleading.
> 48\. The second test in respect of deciding PE is location test and a
> movable activity like a concert tour or circus or racing event meets this
> test if the activity is regularly repeated at the same spots, or the work is
> commercially integrated as one project performed for one client For example
> travelling circus. ice skating shows and similar business enterprises which
> carry on their business on a itinerant basis do not create a PE at the
> places where they perform for no more than a short period, as mentioned by
> Vogel K. in his authoritative book on Double Taxation Conventions, third
> edition. In the US also dancing and music groups who come to the source
> state only once in a year or a repeated entry of a horse in race within the
> source state have not been treated as PE. Both the applicant and the
> Department have cited the rulings given in the case of 'Golf in Dubai'
> wherein the observation was made that if a short term activity is carried
> out even once a year but on a regular basis if it is repeated, the same may
> constitute a PE provided the same place is kept at the disposal of the
> enterprise and there is certainty that the event will be repeated. Mere
> intention to repeat is not sufficient. We do not think this ruling is
> appropriate in this case because even if there is an event for a short
> period and there is intention to repeat it in future but not certainty, the
> main ingredient is missing, i.e., whether FOWC is carrying on any business
> activity through the circuit. The definition of PE presupposes that the
> business of the enterprise must be carried on through this fixed place of
> business. FOWC is not carrying on any business activity here unless we
> accept the theory of Revenue that all three entities Beta Prema, Allsports,
> FOM are acting on behalf of FOWC. Unfortunately, this is not true and we
> have rejected such presumption in the section on tax avoidance.
Therefore, the business activity test also fails because we have already
concluded in the section of issue of tax avoidance that there is no evidence
to suggest that Beta Prema 2, All Sports and FOM are acting on behalf of the
FOWC and all arrangements and agreements in relation to activities performed
by these 3 entities are sham. It is also relevant that USD 40 m W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 16 has been paid for
use of certain marks and intellectual property of FOWC and this use cannot be
equated with business activity in India.
49\. Article 5(5) has several pre-requisites if an entity has to be treated as
dependent agent. The agent must have the authority to conclude contracts which
bind the represented enterprise and it habitually exercises such authority. If
these positive preconditions are met, then only an enterprise shall be deemed
to have a PE in that state in respect of any activities, which that person
undertakes for the enterprise. Here again Shri Srivastava has given same
argument that because the 3 entities were acting on behalf of FOWC they become
dependent agents. Such insinuations made by Revenue are based only on
selective reading of some clauses in agreements and making facetious
presumptions based on that. We are of the firm view that FOWC had no fixed
place of business, is not doing any business activity in India and has not
authorized any organization or entity to conclude contracts on their behalf
and therefore has no PE in India."
Contentions of parties: FOWC and Jaypee
16\. Arguing first on the issue of royalty, both FOWC and Jaypee contend,
through their Senior Counsel, Mr. S. Ganesh and Mr. Arvind Datar, that AAR's
order is premised on a fallacious premise, i.e that FOWC‟s grant to the
promoter (Jaypee) under the RPC is a permission given to the latter to use F1
trademarks, logos and other intellectual property rights ("I.P. rights"). The
AAR assumed that if Jaypee described or advertised any racing event as "Indian
Formula One Grand Prix", ipso facto that was sufficient to make the race an F1
event; the premise was unfounded. It was this erroneous assumption which
prompted the AAR to record that "royalty" within the meaning of Article 12 of
the DTAA comprehended the amounts paid by Jaypee. Here it is argued that the
IP rights given to Jaypee were only for the purpose of facilitating the event
that was to be held in terms of the RPC, and for no other purpose whatsoever.
If the RPC were to be terminated under any of the circumstances set out in
Clause 28.1 of the RPC, then too Jaypee continued to be liable to pay the
contracted amounts in the year of termination and in the next year; but the
user of all I.P. rights ceased the moment the RPC was terminated. This clearly
established that the amounts paid under the RPC were for the rights and
privilege of hosting and staging the event and not for IP rights.
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 17
17\. The relevant clauses of the RPC relied on by FOWC and Jaypee are
discussed as follows. (a) Recital 'B', which states that the FOWC has the
exclusive right to exploit the commercial rights in the championship and to
award Jaypee the right to host, stage and promote Formula One Grand Prix
events; (b) Recital 'D', which states that the RPC sets out the terms and
conditions on which FOWC has granted to Jaypee the privilege of hosting,
staging and promoting the event at the motor racing circuit owned by Jaypee
situated in N.C.R (National Capital Region). Reliance is also placed on Clause
l (t), which defines "Event" to mean the Formula One Grand Prix of India
designated as a round of the FIA Formula One World Championship. (d) Clause 4,
which set out the grant by FOWC to Jaypee of the right to host, stage and
promote the 'Event' and clarified that the right was limited to the event. (e)
Clause 17, which stated that FOWC would use its reasonable endeavors to ensure
that at least sixteen cars participate in the Event. (f) Clause 18, which
forbids Jaypee from making any audio or visual image of the event. (g) Clause
23.2, permits FOWC to make incidental use of I.P. rights solely for the
limited purpose of facilitating Jaypee to promote the event and (h) Clause
28.2 refers to termination of the RPC on the declaration by FOWC that an
"event of default" has occurred, upon which the RPC stood terminated
forthwith. However, it is of importance to note that Jaypee's liability to
make payments under the RPC continues, not only in respect of the year in
which the termination has taken place but also in the immediate subsequent
year. Therefore, even though FOWC remained liable to pay the full contractual
amount in the year of termination and in the subsequent year, the right to use
trademarks, logos and IP Rights ceases instantly, the moment the termination
takes place. This was a clear indication that the amounts payable by Jaypee to
FOWC under the RPC are really for the privilege of hosting and staging the
championship race and not for the IP rights, which in any event, could be
utilized by it only to promote the race and for no other purpose. It was also
urged that by virtue of the Artwork License Agreement (ALA), clauses 23.3 and
23.4 of the RPC had to be read in conjunction with the ALA. Mr. Ganesh
emphasized that the said Artwork agreement did not confer any additional
rights, nor could too much significance be attached on its provisions beyond
what was actually said and that in the circumstances of the case, neither was
a license nor any form of right W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 18 to use the trademark given to Jaypee by FOWC which
resulted in royalty payment within the meaning of Article 13 of the DTAA.
18\. It was argued on behalf of FOWC that the judgment in Director of Income
Tax v. Ericsson A.B. [2012] 343 ITR 470 (Del), which held that a lump-sum
payment which is not based on or connected with the extent of the user of the
IP rights would not constitute "royalties" within the meaning of the DTAA. In
the present case, the payments made under the RPC were separate lump-sum
amounts in respect of the three separate race events held in each of the three
(3) years 2011 to 2013. It is not a payment, which is based on either the
number of tickets, sold or the total amount of revenue earned by Jaypee in
each of the said years or indeed on any other measure. It is submitted that
such a lump- sum payment is squarely covered by the Ericsson(supra) case.
19\. It was next highlighted by Mr. Datar that recital (B) of the ALA
specifically stated that FOWC wished to grant a license to Jaypee permitting
only the incidental use of certain IP rights and artwork "solely for the
limited purpose of facilitating the hosting, staging and promotion of the
event". The definition of "permitted use" in clause 1.1 of the ALA again
states that it means only the incidental use of the licensed marks and
materials "for the purpose of hosting, staging or promoting the event, but for
the avoidance of doubt, not to include use for any merchandising or other
products or services whatsoever, whether distributed free of charge or for
sale". It was argued that Clauses 2.2 and 6.2 of the ALA provide that the ALA
will continue only until the RPC terminates or expires; Clause 2.3 of the ALA
prohibit Jaypee from using any of the licensed marks, or as part of the name
of the circuit, any corporate name, any domain name, website address or other
URL identification or equivalent used in association with Jaypee. Jaypee thus
has no IP rights whatsoever independently of the staging and hosting of the
Event. To the same effect are the undertakings given by Jaypee, set out in
Clauses 3.1(e) and 3.6 of the ALA. Counsel also argued that the definition of
"royalty" as set out in Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, is
significantly broader than the definition of "royalties" set out in Article
13(3) of the India-UK DTAA. The definition in the Act specifically covers and
includes lumpsum payments, whereas Article 13(3) of the DTAA only refers to
payments. The impugned order neither contains any discussion nor finding
whatsoever on this W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
Page 19 crucial issue even though it goes to the root of the entire case. It
is argued that the payments made to it under the RPC are not "royalty" either
under the Act or the DTAA, these payments are in reality not for the use of
trademarks or IP rights, but rather for the grant of the privilege of staging,
hosting and promoting the Event at the promoter's racing circuit in
Noida(NCR). FOWC under the RPC, made available to Jaypee all of the elements
which constitute the event. In particular, this includes nominating (to FIA)
the promoter's event for inclusion in the official Formula One racing
calendar; after such inclusion the Formula One racing teams with their Formula
One cars and drivers were bound to participate in Jaypee's event held at the
Promoter's racing circuit, strictly in conformity with the requirements of the
F1 Sporting and Technical Regulations and the FIA Sporting Code. Therefore,
the grant of Formula One rights by the FOWC to Jaypee is merely incidental to
the hosting and staging of the event by the Promoter, and this is clear from
the fact that the use of rightsby Jaypee has been strictly confined and
limited to use only for the promotion of the event, and for no other purpose
and in no other manner whatsoever.
20\. Reliance is placed on the decision in Director of Income Tax v. Sheraton
International Inc.[2009] 313 ITR 267, which held that if a contract for the
supply of goods and services also permits "incidental use" of trademarks,
logos and other I.P. rights, only in connection with such supply of goods and
services and not for any independent purpose, then in such a case the payments
made under the contract cannot be considered to be "royalty" either under the
Act or the DTAA. In the Sheraton case (supra), this Court had used the said
term "incidental" only in the sense of "ancillary to" or "connected with" the
supply of goods and services under the Agreement. This Court did not use the
term "incidental" to convey the idea that trademarks and IP rights were of
reduced value or importance as compared to the supply of goods and services
under the contract. In other words, the use of the word "incidental" by this
Court in Sheraton (supra) is not based on any value judgment regarding the
relative importance of the supply of goods and services as compared to
permitting the use of the trademarks and I.P. rights. This used the term
"incidental" only to connote the close and immediate connection between the
supply of goods and services and the user of the trademarks/ I.P.
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 20 rights that
are inextricably interconnected with such supply. Thus, when no autonomous
I.P. rights are created that are de hors or independent of the supply of the
goods and services, then the payments under the contract cannot be regarded as
consideration for the user of the trademarks / I.P. rights and, therefore,
would only constitute 'business income' and not "royalty" in the hands of the
recipient. It is argued that the judgment fully covers the present case in
favor of FOWC, and the AAR committed an egregious and patent error of law in
not following the binding principles of law laid down. It is further argued
that the term "incidental "used by this court in Sheraton is in conformity
with the sense in which the Supreme Court has understood the said term.
Learned senior counsel relied on Works Manager Central Railway vs. Vishwanath
& Ors. (1969) 3 SCC 95,State of Orissa vs. Chakobhai [1961] 1 SCR 719 and
Shroff & Covs Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (1989) Supp. 1 SCC 347.
It is urged that the AAR fell into error in interpreting the expression
"incidental" in a completely different sense than what was held in Sheraton
thereby in effect re-writing it. Furthermore, the impugned order is flawed
because it holds that the dominant purpose of the RPC is to grant I.P. rights
because the Promoter has been given the right to use the F1 name and marks,
overlooking that this was exclusively so that the F1 racing event could be
staged and hosted by the Promoter in full accordance with the F1 rules and
regulations. Mr. Datar lastly relied on Section 48 of the Trademarks Act and
said that use of the mark by a permitted user is not considered to be grant of
any property right and in fact, such use inures to the benefit of the I.P
proprietor.
21\. It is argued, next, on the issue of existence of PE in India, that the
preconditions for creation of a permanent establishment where, or through
which business is earned in India, have not been proved. Learned counsel
relied on the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital, Para 10,
which reads as follows:
> "10. The business of an enterprise is carried on mainly by the entrepreneur
> or persons who are in a paid-employment relationship with the enterprise
> (personnel). This personnel includes employees and other persons receiving
> instructions from the enterprise (e.g. dependent agents).
The powers of such personnel in its relationship with third parties are
irrelevant. It makes no difference whether or not the dependent agent is
authorized to conclude contracts if he works at the fixed place of business
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 21 (see
paragraph 35 below). But a permanent establishment may nevertheless exist if
the business of the enterprise is carried on mainly through automatic
equipment, the activities of the personnel being restricted to setting up,
operating, controlling and maintaining such equipment. Whether or not gaming
and vending machines and the like set up by an enterprise of a State in the
other State constitute a permanent establishment thus depends on whether or
not the enterprise carries on a business activity besides the initial setting
up of the machines. A permanent establishment does not exist if the enterprise
merely sets up the machines and then leases the machines to other enterprises.
A permanent establishment may exist, however, if the enterprise, which sets up
the machines also operates and maintains them for its own account. This also
applies if the machines are operated and maintained by an agent dependent on
the enterprise."
22\. Mr. Ganesh learned senior counsel argued that under Article 5.1 of the
DTAA, a permanent establishment is said to exist in relation to a business and
income is said to be earned in India, if it has a "fixed" place of business
"through" which income is earned by means of an economic activity. It is
argued that the limitation and framework within which tax incidence can be
said to arise, if at all, is that of the need for an enterprise to have a
fixed place. The OECD commentary states that the premises need not be owned or
even rented by the enterprise. What is however, essential is that the premises
or place should be at the disposal of the enterprise. Mr. Ganesh submitted
that there was nothing in the RPC or any agreement with FOWC whereby a fixed
place was ever placed at its exclusive disposal. Thus, a place of business,
which houses the fixed "place" would not imply mere empty space, available for
some such purpose, but existence of objects in that place, such as furniture,
equipment, etc which facilitate business, needed for the concerned commercial
activity. The place of management, though considered a PE, requires existence
of an office or similar facility in order to constitute a PE and the
management activities should be conducted through such fixed place. Counsel
relied on the decision reported as Director of Income Tax v. E Funds
Corporation [2014] 364 ITR 256 (Delhi) which, after quoting from various
authors, states that "The term 'through' postulates that the taxpayer should
have the power or liberty to control the place and, hence, the right to
determine the conditions according to its needs". It is urged that Jaypee
neither leased the stadium, or its premises or any part thereof to FOWC or
granted W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 22
license to FOWC. That FOWC facilitated the drivers and constructors to use
them did not further the revenue‟s case in any manner, because they were
professionals, and had independent contracts. The access provided to them, or
that provided to Allsports, or FOM, or Beta Prema2 did not mean that they, or
FOWC had a fixed place of business. No part of the income generating activity
of FOWC actually arose in India.
23\. It is submitted that the entire right to promote, stage, host and endorse
the event, i.e the F1 Grand Prix race, vested with Jaypee; FOWC only got the
fee for assuring participation of the teams and constructors, in the agreed
manner. That it was entitled to the live feed from the event, which it used,
did not mean that any part of its business was transacted in India. The
agreement, i.e the RPC, nor any other agreement containing any significant
stipulation conferring it with a right to set up office in India, in relation
to the F1 event, ever entered in the country; it did not have or set up even a
liaison office for the purpose of its F1 event work or transaction. Therefore,
the question of FOWC having a fixed place of business, even for a transient
place, did not arise.
24\. It was next argued that the question of any PE existing through Articles
5 (4) or (5) also could not have arisen, in the circumstances of the case. It
is highlighted by Mr. Ganesh that none of the three companies, which entered
into agreements with Jaypee, has or had any office in India; though they were
subsidiaries of FOWC, such status arose because of acquisition of their shares
in 2006. The transactions by them with Jaypee were independent. Moreover, the
three companies did not act on behalf of FOWC, nor could they ever be said to
have acted "habitually" in that regard, because the contract with Jaypee was a
"one off" transaction. Thus, none of the ingredients of Article 5(4) of the
DTAA applied. Equally, provisions of Article 5 (5) of the DTAA had no
application because, none of the subsidiaries‟ activities were "carried out
wholly or almost wholly for" FOWC. It was submitted that there was, nor could
there have been, any finding that the said subsidiaries (Allsports, Beta
Prema2 or FOM) acted "wholly" in the course of their business for FOWC or for
its benefit. There was no material or evidence shown by the revenue in support
of its contention. It is submitted that the business contracts therefore,
entered into between FOWC‟s subsidiaries were independent bargains and W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 23 concluded on
principal to principal basis. The benefit or amounts derived from those
contracts did not flow back to FOWC. Lastly, learned counsel submitted that
the reliance placed by the revenue on the AAR‟s ruling in the case of Re Golf
in Dubai 2008 (306) ITR 374 is inappropriate, because in that case, the
arrangement was such that the premises were in fact leased for a period for
use. In the present case, no space for work or commercial activity was offered
to or taken by FOWC.
Revenue's contentions
25\. The revenue argues that a (PE) defined under Article 5 of the may exist
under Para (1) of Article 5, if there is a fixed place of business available
to the enterprise through which its business is wholly or partly earned on. A
PE may also get constituted under Para (4) of the said Article, if the
enterprise carries on its business functions through a dependent agent who has
an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise. If the agent
works wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise, he shall be deemed to be a
dependent agent under Para (5) of Article 5, subject to other conditions.
Relying on its Director‟s report, Mr. Srivastava, learned counsel argues that
FOWC‟s business is to exploit commercial rights arising from the conduct of
FIA Formula One World Championships in various parts of the world, including
India in the relevant years.
26\. It is argued that FIA, the international regulatory body, organizes and
controls motor races in various parts of the world. For the F-1 championship,
it enters into an 'Organization Agreement' with the local Promoter. The format
of such 'Organization Agreement' is contained in Schedule 6 to the Concorde
Agreement (the mother agreement). The Concorde Agreement provides that the
'Organization Agreement' would be entered into only after the Promoter has
entered into an agreement with the Commercial Rights Holder. The Organization
Agreement makes it explicit that FIA is the sole and exclusive owner of the
Formula One World Championship event
27\. FIA entered into an agreement with FOAM (predecessor of FOWC) under which
FOAM was given the right to exploit commercial rights and it became the
Commercial Rights Holder (CRH). On the back of the above agreement, FOAM (CRH)
entered into an RPC with JPSK (Jaypee‟s predecessor) in 2007. The promoter
(JPSIL), entered into an W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 24 'Organization Agreement' with FIA and obtained the right to
organize the FIA Formula One World Championship in India. In the meanwhile, by
a new 'Concorde Agreement' of 2009, FOWC became the new commercial rights
holder (CRH). As per the stipulation in the 'Concorde Agreement', the
commercial rights could not be assigned/transferred by the commercial rights
holder (CRH) to any entity other than its affiliates. Under the terms of such
Concorde Agreement, FOWC could exploit such rights either directly or through
its affiliates.
28\. It is argued that the Buddh International Circuit (Noida), which includes
not only the racing circuit but all the attached buildings in the complex,
including vending areas, hosting and broadcasting facilities, media centres,
administrative offices etc. as widely defined in the Race Promotion Contract
itself was available to FOWC and its affiliates (including their employees and
third party contractors appointed by them) for carrying on their business
operations. This circuit along with all the facilities was constructed in a
form and manner approved by both FOWC and FIA. (Clause 5(e) of RPC). FOWC and
its affiliates have complete access to the circuit in all its dimensions for a
period beginning 14 days prior to the event and ending 7 days after the event.
The place is available not only to FOWC but to its contractors, licensees,
FOWC's affiliates, their personnel etc. (Clause 11 of RPC). Further, access to
the restricted area is regulated by passes and tickets issued by FOWC. In
effect, FOWC had complete control over the entire area during the term of the
event. (Clause 14 of RPC) The fixed place is available to FOWC under the terms
of the RPC for carrying out its business functions for a period of 5 years,
extendable by another 5 years.
29\. It is argued that consistent with the stipulations of the Concorde
Agreement, FOWC exploited certain commercial rights directly (such as media
rights) and certain other commercial rights indirectly through other group
entities, namely Allsports Management SA ('Allsports') and Beta Prema 2 Ltd.
The business functions were given to the affiliates by interposing the
promoter, Jaypee being oblivious of the fact that under the Concorde
Agreement, FOWC could not have transferred such rights to JPSIL. The effect of
such interposition was that while the terms of Concorde Agreement were not
violated, the exposure of FOWC to a PE in India was sought to be avoided.
Despite the fact that the W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 25 RPC of 2007 was not rescinded, FOWC entered into a fresh
Race Promotion Contract with JPSIL(successor of Jaypee) in departure from the
RPC of2007 on 13.09.2011. (both agreements were signed by Mr. B. Eccelstone
for EGA and FOWC). Some of the changes made in the latter agreement were:
• Under RPC of 2007, the promoter was given only the right to 'promote' the
event but in the RPC. of 2011, the words 'host' and 'stage' were inserted
before the word 'promote' solely with a view to escape the tax incidence.
• As a condition precedent, JPSIL (R 2) was mandated to transfer the
commercial rights back to the group entities of FOWC (R I), namelyAllsports
Management SA and Beta Prema 2 Ltd. and to obtain the services of FOAM for
executing certain obligations pertaining to the exploitation of media rights,
which FOWC had undertaken directly. • The declaration in the RPC of 2007 that
FOAM acted as a Business Manager and agent of FOWC was deliberately dropped,
without the business model undergoing any change. • Clause 18.3 was
introduced, casting an obligation on JPSIL to engage FOAM to carry out
services for the origination of international television feed, to be provided
to telecasting companies with which FOWC had already made agreements.
30\. It is argued that Beta Prema 2 had transferred title Sponsorship rights
to Bharti Airtel Ltd. on 16.08.2011 for a consideration of USD $ 8 million,
long before it acquired these rights from Jaypee on13.09.2011. On 16.08.2011,
when such rights existed only with FOWC, Beta Prema 2 could have concluded an
agreement with Bharti Airtel only on behalf of FOWC or as an agent of FOWC and
not otherwise. It is argued thus by Mr. Srivastava that a holistic reading of
these agreements particularly the five agreements executed simultaneously on
13.09.2011 leads to the following irresistible inferences:
(i) FOWC alone was the commercial rights holder (CRH) for the championship
under the Concorde Agreement.
(ii)FOWC could exploit the commercial rights either itself or through its
group entities only and the same could not have been transferred to a third
party, outside the group, including JPSIL.
(iii) The entire arrangement of showing that the rights moved from FOWC to
JPSIL and then from Jaypee to Allsports and Beta Prema 2 is wholly artificial
and far removed from W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 26 the true state of affairs and intent of the parties.
(iv) Jaypee was interposed in the above arrangement only to avoid the exposure
of FOWC to a PE in India. The commercial rights, in effect and for all intent
and purposes, remained only with FOWC or its affiliates.
(v) The transfer of commercial rights to Jaypee on 13.09.2011 and its further
transfer to the affiliates of FOWC on the same day shows that the rights did
not rest with Jaypee for any period of time and the entire arrangement was
pre-ordained.
31\. The revenue argues that the agreements entered into by Jaypee with Beta
Prema 2 and Allsports stipulate that entire revenues from exploitation of
commercial rights arose only to Beta Prema 2 and Allsports, as the case be,
and Jaypee would not have any share in the same. The agreements also provide
that there does not exist any agency relationship between the affiliates and
Jaypee (clause 26 of the Beta Prema 2 agreement and clause 19 of the Allsports
agreement). Seen from this backdrop, the stipulations in the agreements to the
effect that these entities acted on behalf of Jaypee are misleading and made
only to project a wholly unreal state of affairs. The transfer of such
valuable rights which yielded revenues worth US $ several millions (exact
amount of revenues not provided) to these entities was made for a pittance
(USD 1 million each),making the whole arrangement commercially unrealistic and
wholly artificial.
32\. It is argued that the AAR had correctly understood and enunciated the
test, in the Golf in Dubai(supra) decision, but failed to apply it correctly
in the facts of the present case. FOWC was responsible for inclusion of the F1
event in the Budh Circuit, which was built according to specifications suited
for F1 Formula One championship. The circuit was made available to FOWC as the
entity which guaranteed the participation of a minimum number of teams; the
circuit itself constituted a fixed place of business for FOWC. No other event
could or was staged for the duration the event was held; moreover, the RPC
stipulated that the circuit had to be kept free only for the F1 racing event
in which FOWC chosen and contracted teams participated. The promoter, Jaypee
only had the privilege of being called "event promoter" in reality, the entire
ownership of the event and the economic advantages, in the form of media and
television rights, were exclusively owned by FOWC. Even though the promoter
was obliged to get in equipment W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 27 and infrastructure to enable feed creation and
transmission, it could not avail any benefit from it: that belonged, in every
sense of the term, to FOWC and none else.
33\. FOWC's business is the exploitation of commercial rights arising from
races which is carried on through exploitation of these commercial rights
either by itself or through any one or more members of CRH group mentioned in
the Concorde Agreement. Counsel urged that commercial rights were originally
owned by FIA, transferred in 2001 to SLEC Holding Company (parent company of
FOWC) for a consideration, then given to FOAM and w.e.f. 1.1.2011 transferred
to FOWC. He also pointed out certain inconsistencies as under:-
(a) The Organization Agreement between FINFMSCI was entered into on
20.01.2011. The RPC and the Artworks License Agreement are dated 13.09.2011
Going by RPC dated ·13.09.2011, it is evident that GP contract did not exist
on the date of the signing of the Organisation Agreement in January 2011. It
would be relevant to refer to recital (B) in the Organization Agreement which
reads as under:
"The Promoter has entered into an agreement with the Commercial Rights Holder
to promote the event."
According to FOWC, its agreement with Jaypee was entered into on 13.09.2011.
It would be difficult to explain the Recital in the Organization Agreement in
January 2011 by reference to the RPC of September 2011.
(b) The agreement, dated 25.10.2007, between FOAL and Jaypee, is on the same
lines as RPC of September 2011. This agreement is in tune with the Format
provided under Schedule 4 of the Concorde Agreement. It is obvious that FIA
could sign the Organization Agreement in January 2011 only on the basis that
the Promoter had already entered into GP contract with FOAM (predecessor of
FOWC) in 2007.
(c) The RPC of 2007 has the following distinguishing features:
i) The right given to the Promoter is only to promote the event under clause
4(1) thereof.
ii) Clause 18.3 appearing in RPC of 2011 is not there in the RPC of 2007.
iii) The conditions precedent in Clause 2 are limited to obligating the
Promoter to enter into an agreement with APM (Ireland) Ltd. (APM). Nothing is
known about this entity or the role to be played by it in the exploitation of
commercial rights. In fact, nothing is W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 28 known to Revenue about the ownership of this entity
or its business nature or the functions performed by it. There is no reference
of any agreement with Beta Prema 2, Allsports or FOAM in this RPC.
d) Recital (D) clearly records as under:
"FOA has appointed its subsidiary, Formula One Management Limited ("FOM') as
its agent and business manager to conclude contracts on its behalf and to
exercise its rights and perform its obligations under such contracts."
34\. The revenue urges that FOWC's contention that the 2007 agreement was not
acted upon is incorrect. Mr. Srivastava, therefore, argues that FOWC has a PE
in India. The fixed place is Buddha circuit located in Greater Noida and owned
by Jaypee which was being designed and constructed in terms of RPC dated
25.10.2007 and RPC dated 13.9.2011 is only continuation of earlier
arrangement. He further urges that clause 11 of the RPC dated 13.9.2011 makes
available to FOWC and other entities access to circuit, clause 8.1 obliges the
promoter to allocate promotional area in such a manner as FOWC shall specify,
access to restricted area is regulated by passes and tickets issued by FOWC.
He has also submitted that International Broadcast is one of the major
commercial rights which vests in FOWC and because the promoter has set up a
media compound and installations necessary for national and international
commentators, such business is also made available to FOWC at the circuit.
35\. The revenue further argued that that the three affiliates of FOWC, i.e.
Formula One Management Ltd. ('FOM'), Allsports Management SA and Beta Prema 2
Ltd. are FOWC's agents who carried on its business and on its behalf, through
the fixed place. It has submitted that that all commercial rights originally
vested and were granted to only FOWC under the Concorde agreement, with a
stipulation that FOWC may transfer or assign such rights only to other group
entities. It is argued that each of FOWC's affiliates acted on its behalf; the
rights they exploited were ostensibly that of Jaypee; however, a close reading
of the agreements with that concern showed that their own rights originated in
effect from the arrangements entered into FOWC; the contracts with Jaypee were
mandated by the RPC between FOWC and Jaypee, where the latter was bound to
enter into agreements and contracts with these affiliates. Given the admitted
relationship W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page
29 between FOWC and each affiliate and the fact that they collected huge sums
of money through the contract, in lieu of which Jaypee was given US $ 1
million in each contract, the only inference that could reasonably be drawn
was that they entered into contracts on behalf of FOWC.
36\. On the issue of whether the payment by Jaypee was royalty, the revenue
argued that the RPC and Artwork License Agreement had to be read together for
a comprehensive view. It is argued that there is no agreement between FOWC and
Formula One Licensing B.V., proprietor of the trademarks for transfer or
licensing of such rights in favour of FOWC. The latter stated this in its
letter, dated 19.07.2016. What FOWC licensed to Jaypee was the permitted use,
in the territory, of the licensed marks and materials. The licensed marks and
materials are defined to include marks stated above. The "permitted use" is
defined to mean incidental use of the licensed marks strictly for the purpose
of hosting, staging and promoting the event.
37\. Mr. Srivastava urges that a combined reading of Concorde Agreement and
other agreements reveals that Jaypee was not required to make any payment to
FOWC for hosting, staging and promoting any motor racing event. The payment
was for only the reason that the mark of "Formula One World Championship" or
"Grand Prix of India" had to be used to make the event a part of the calendar
of F1 World Championship. Thus, it is the staging of Formula One World
Championship which is an event involving use of the FOWC's marks and this
factor impelled payment of USD 40 million by Jaypee to FOWC. Thus, the right
given by FOWC entailed the right to use the mark and licensed material to
characterize the event as Formula One World Championship event. FOWC could
only grant Jaypee, the right to use the mark to identify it as Formula One
World Championship and/or Grand Prix of India. Jaypee could have entered into
Artworks license Agreement with FOWC and the Organization Agreement with FIA
and could have acquired the rights necessary for hosting, staging or promoting
the event (Formula One World Championship). FOWC's attempt to show a
consideration of US $ 1 was an attempt to show the consideration of USD $40
million for rights different from what it was actually paid.
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 30
38\. The revenue resists the argument that there was an incidental use of the
mark in these circumstances. The use was in fact, primary and the only use.
The mark's licensing gave Jaypee the right to hold the F1 championship or
Grand Prix of India event. This fact is supported by the circumstances that
Jaypee's rights as stipulated in the Concorde agreement are clearly listed as
(i) right to promote the event. (ii) right to designate the event as Formula
One Championship event.
39\. The revenue argues that the SLEC group (of which FOWC is a part)had
acquired the 'Formula One' trademark for a substantial consideration from FlA.
It is unrealistic that a mark acquired for a hefty consideration, would be
licensed to a third party (Jaypee) without consideration. Counsel argues that
the trademark's significance is evidenced by the fact that there are several
other motor sport racing events held in India such as 'Honda 1 Make Race', 'JK
National Tyre Racing Championship', 'MRF 1600 Championship', 'Maruti Suzuki
National Superleague' etc. Yet these events hardly come in the public eye; and
saying that the revenues from such events are miniscule as compared to that of
FOWC would be an understatement. Given the relative ignorance of motor sports
in India, crowds, visiting the circuit or watching from home are thus drawn
towards the name 'Formula One', that they are familiar with and not the car or
circuit specifications that the event associates itself with. The revenue
arising from the commercial rights, be it sale of tickets, advertisement
rights or broadcasting rights are, therefore, all attributable to the name of
the event more than anything else.
Analysis and Conclusions Re question no. 1: whether FOWC had a fixed place
permanent establishment (PE) under Article 5(1) of the DTAA in the facts of
the present case -
40\. Article 5(1) defines the term "PE" as "a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on". Article
5(2) enumerates - by way of an inclusion "especially various places such as
place of management; a branch; office; a factory; a workshop; premises used as
sales outlet or for receiving or soliciting order; the ware house in relation
to a person providing store facilities for others; a mine; an oil W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 31 or gas well etc.
used for extraction of natural resources; an installation/structure used for
exploration or exploitation of natural resources; a building, site or
construction; installation or assembly, project or supervisory activities in
connection therewith where the site, project or supervisory activity continues
for more than six months etc; furnishing services including managerial
services other than those taxable under Article 13 within a contracting state
by an enterprise through employees or other personnel subject to specific
conditions etc. Article 5(3) contains a "negative list", enumerating what is
not deemed to be a PE.
41\. FOWC and Jaypee argue that there is no "fixed place PE" in the sense of
the term under Article 5(1). It is emphasized that FOWC merely sought right to
exploit commercial rights in the championship and is awarded the permission
and right to hold and promote Formula One Grand Prix events and that the RPC
sets out the terms and conditions for the grant of privilege of hosting,
staging and promoting the event to Jaypee. FOWC only assures that it would use
its reasonable endeavor to ensure that at least 16 cars participate in the
event. It is stated that no part of the RPC or artwork license or indeed any
contract between other entities which assures specific services to Jaypee (All
Sports, Beta Prema 2 and FOM) ever mentioned that FOWC had any place at its
disposal for any point of time. It neither had any office nor any place of
business in the sense as is commercially understood, from where its personnel
were allowed to operate. At all relevant and material times, the ownership and
exclusive possession of the stadium and all the premises therein vested and
continued with Jaypee. Since the concept of a fixed place PE is entirely
dependent upon functioning of a company or commercial entity within a physical
place provided for that purpose (not necessarily for whole year but at least a
substantial period thereof), the question of FOWC ever having functioned in
any premises or even licensed to do by Jaypee did not arise. It is furthermore
urged that the revenue's argument that the AAR fell into error is baseless
because the impugned order correctly concluded that there was no fixed place
of business from where FOWC operated. Furthermore, it was argued that each
participating team was under a contract and none of its members were engaged
as employees of FOWC in the sense that they were performers whom the FOWC
assured, would participate. Moreover, there was no W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 32 activity on part of the FOWC within
such fixed place that yielded income in India. It is emphasized that the
relationship between the fixed place and the business carried on through it
has to be established in any case to say that income arising from such
activity is taxable in India. Reliance is placed upon the OECD Model
Convention on Income and Capital, 2010, para 10, which elaborates that mainly
the enterprises or persons who are in paid employment relationship with it
carry on the business of an enterprise. Such personnel would include employers
and other persons receiving directions from the enterprise, learned counsel
relied upon the decision reported as E Funds (supra). The revenue argues that
the entire event is the creation of FOWC, which is an extension of FIA.
Elaborating on this submission, it is stated by the revenue that inclusion of
any circuit in the FIA's calendar of events is through the FOWC. Therefore,
from the inception, i.e. inclusion of event in a circuit till the conclusion
of the event itself, (i.e. Formula One Grand Prix Championship race in any
circuit), the FOWC's role dominates. Elaborating on this, it is argued that
the Buddh Circuit was built to suit the specifications needed for a Formula
One race, including the Grand Prix Championship. For three weeks before the
event and a week after it, the entire circuit or any part thereof was
exclusively meant for the event; FOWC or its personnel or agent had access to
every part of the circuit. Moreover, every team that participated in the event
was under contract with FOWC and had to do so as a condition precedent for the
payment of consideration and importantly prize money and share of its prize
money. In other words, though seemingly independent contractors of FOWC, in
reality, the teams were bound to honor the commitment of FOWC. This was the
business model adopted by it and in any given year, FOWC's mandate bound each
team to participate in a certain preordained manner, in events stipulated by
it. Furthermore, even though the right to promote, host and endorse the event
ostensibly was that of the Jaypee, it could not in real sense of the term
exploit its rights. Under the RPC, it was bound to contract out those rights
to three sport entities; what is even more important is that it did not even
possess any copyright or intellectual property right in respect of the media
and television recordings created of the event. The ownership and exploitation
of those rights exclusively vested with the FOWC. Most crucially, the revenue
argues that the entire ownership of the live feed and the right to W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 33 exploit it through
sport contracts for media, television network, gaming, rights etc. were
exclusively that of FOWC. In the real sense of the term, therefore, FOWC was
the commercial owner which yielded income - in the form of consideration for
facilitating the event, its inclusion in the FIA calendar and the revenues
derived from the contracts, especially media, television network contracts.
42\. Since both the parties relied on the provisions of the RPC, it would be
useful to extract some of its relevant conditions. They are reproduced below:
> "WHEREAS (A) The Federation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) is the
> governing body of world motor sport. The FIA is responsible for the sporting
> organization and regulation of the FIA Formula One World Championship (the
> Championship), and has the right to supervise the sporting organization of
> individual rounds of the Championship. (B) Pursuant to various agreements
> between the FIA, POWC and its Affiliates (as defined in Clause I(p) etc.
> FOWC has the exclusive right to exploit the commercial rights in the
> Championship, including the exclusive right to propose the Championship
> calendar and to award, to promoters the right to host, stage and promote
> Formula One Grand Prix events that count towards the Championship, exclusive
> media rights (including all use of audio-visual material and data in the
> media space). (C) FOWC has the exclusive right to enter into contracts
> solely for the hosting, standing and promotion of Formula One Grand Prix
> events entered on the FIA International Sporting Calendar and counting
> towards the Championship, it being understood that such a contract will
> govern exclusively the commercial and financial management of the Event (as
> defined in Clause 3.1(xx not legible).
> (D) The Promoter is the owner of a motor racing circuit in the National
> Capital Region of India which is capable of hosting various motor racing
> events. The Promoter wishes to host various motor racing events at such
> circuit, to include the hosting of Formula One Grand Prix events. The
> Promoter had secured the privilege to host such events and is no executing
> this agreement with FOWC to set out the terms and conditions on which it
> will host, stage and promote Formula One Grand Prix events at such circuit.
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Definitions and Interpretation
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                           Page 34
> 1\. In this Agreement unless the context requires otherwise:
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           (q)      Circuit shall mean a motor racing circuit suitable in every respect
> for the staging of the Event (including permanent buildings, permanent
> infrastructure, track layout, amenities, spectator viewing facilities, the
> pit/paddock, building, media centre, car parks, helipads, garages, race
> control and administration, office administration, fuel and tyre storage,
> utilities (including back up power supplies), concrete based areas suitable
> to host the Competitors and sponsors, vending and exhibition areas,
> international TV compounds, host and broadcast facilities and medical
> centre);
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           (t)     Event shall mean the FORMULA 1 GRAND PRIX OF INDIA
> (including all support events therein and peripheral entertainment),
> designated and endorsed as a round of the FIA Formula One World
> Championship, which shall commence at the Circuit at the time scheduled by
> the FIA for Scrutinizing and Sporting Checks and including all Practice and
> the Race itself and ending at the later of the time for the lodging of a
> Protest under the terms of the Sporting Code and the time when a technical
> or sporting verification has been carried out under the terms of the
> Sporting Code; and XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX Conditions Precedent 2.1 The grant
> of rights by FOWC to the Promoter under this Agreement is conditional on the
> Conditions having been fulfilled or waived in accordance with this Agreement
> and the Promoter shall use its best endeavour to satisfy the Conditions in
> accordance with this Clause 2.
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Term
           3.1    This Agreement shall commence and become operative when it is
           signed by the parties and dated.
           3.2     Subject to Clause 2 the rights granted to the Promoter under this
> Agreement shall be exercisable from the Unconditional Date. Accordingly, the
> initial term of this Agreement (the Initial Term)shall begin on the
> Unconditional Date and shall expire on 31 December 2015 and shall apply to
> the Championship for the calendar years 2011 to 2015 (inclusive).
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 35 3.3 On or
before 30 June 2015, FOWC shall in its absolute discretion be entitled to give
notice to the Promoter which, if given, shall be effective to extend the Term
for a further period of up to five calendar years (the Extended Term). The
terms of this Agreement shall apply to the Extended Term save for this Clause
3.3.
3.4 The term of this Agreement as prescribed in this Clause 3 shall be
referred to as the Term and shall include the initial Term and (if applicable)
the Extended Term.
3.5 Subject to the performance by FOWC of its obligations contained in Clause
4, the Promoter agrees to host, stage and promote the Event as the FORMULA 1
GRAND PRIX OF INDIA or [Year] GRAND PRIX OF INDIA in accordance with this
Agreement once in every calendar year of the Term commencing 2011 at the
Circuit on the date approved and announced by the FIA on and subject to the
terms of the Regulations and the Sporting Code.
           FOWC's Obligations and Warranties
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Promoter's Warranties
           (e)     On the area of land, the outer perimeter of which is edged in red,
depicted on the document attached to this Agreement as the Annex and initialed
by the Parties for identification, the Circuit shall be constructed, laid out
and prepared in accordance with this Agreement, in a form and manner approved
by both FOWC and the FIA, meeting all requirements of the Regulations
(including as to timing of inspections) and completed in good time for final
inspection by the FIA not later than 12 October 2011;
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Access to Circuit Prior to Event
11\. The Promoter shall take whatever action is necessary to ensure that the
pit and paddock buildings and surrounding areas within Circuit and the Land
are open to receive the competitors, FOWC, Affiliates of FOWC, FOWC's
contractors and licensees and their respective personnel and equipment (if
any) at all times during the period commencing fourteen days before the day of
the race and ending seven days after the Race (the Access Period) and the
security of the paddock and garage area is properly safeguarded at all times
during the Access Period.
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Competitor/Media Facilities
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                              Page 36
13.1 The Promoter will in so far as the same is practicable provide an
entrance for the Competitor personnel and for Officials separate from the
public entrance to the Circuit.
13.2 The Promoter will provide free of charge a zone measuring whichever is
the greater of that which has last been provided in respect of a round of the
FIA Formula One World Championship at that Circuit and 140 metres by 100
metres or 15,0000 square metres within or adjoining the paddock for the
promotional facilities of the Competitors and/or their sponsors.
13.3 The Promoter undertakes to set up a media compound and telephones and
facsimile equipment, Press Room plus the installations and premises necessary
for national and international television commentators and journalists (such
premises and installations to meet the prestige of a World Championship) and
to grant professional accredited journalists use of all facilities for the
exercise of their profession as well as the organization of a Press Conference
with the winner of the Race immediately after the Podium Ceremony.
13.4 Upon the arrival of the Formula One cars and their spares and ancillary
equipment at nearest suitable International airport (as such is determined by
FOWC) (the Landing) the Promoter will transport them free of charge from the
Landing to the Circuit and from the Circuit back to the Landing. The Promoter
shall procure that transportation from the Circuit to the Landing shall take
place on the day following the Race. All ancillary costs including airport
taxes customs clearance handling, loading and unloading both at the Landing
and at the Circuit shall be paid by the Promoter. The Parties agree to liaise
with each other throughout the Term with a view to discussing and implementing
all reasonable measures which may reduce such ancillary cots.
13.5 The Promoter undertakes to provide all such other facilities as specified
in the Circuit General Specifications Manual.
Access to Restricted Areas
14\. The Promoter undertakes to ensure that:
(a) only Passes and tabards issued by FOWC under the authorization of the FIA
will authorize access to parts of the Circuit not open to the paying public;
(b) notwithstanding Clause 14(a) above, the public do not have access to the
cars in any of the places where any Competitor's mechanics may be called upon
to work on them and without prejudice to the generality of the W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 37 foregoing there is
at no time any obstruction to the free passage of the cars and Competitor
personnel in the paddock or pit area;
(c) the validity of any Passes and tabards issued by FOWC under the
authorization of the FIA is upheld; and
(d) the necessary steps are taken to ensure that all police and Circuit
officials are familiar with the Passes and tabards and uphold their validity.
Insurance 15.1 The Promoter shall provide at its expense third party liability
insurance (in a form approved by FOWC and the FIA insuring FOWC and all its
Affiliates, Beta Prema 2 Limited and all its Affiliates, the Competitors,
Drivers and guests of any of the above mentioned parties (such parties to
include where relevant all directors, officers, employees, agents and
contractors) and such other persons involved in the organization of the Event
(including officials, marshals, rescue and medical staff) as the FIA or FOWC
may from time to time advise the Promoter (the Insured Parties) against all
risks (including death of or bodily or mental injury to any person) relating
to (i) the event (ii) support races and (iii) peripheral entertainment
organized as part of the Event, for the Access Period. If such insurance is
not permitted under the law of the country in which the Event takes place or
the FIA is satisfied that such insurance is not commercially viable then the
insurance shall be the maximum permitted by that law or the market conditions.
The insurers must be a company recognized by Standard and Poor's and/or AM.
Best and must be of first class international standing with sufficient
resources to honour and discharge in full the insurance requirements
prescribed in this agreement. A copy of the relevant policy will be given to
FOWC by the Promoter at least 60 days before the start of the first practice
session (with the exception of the year 2011, when such copy will be given to
FOWC at least 30 days before the start of the first Practice session of the
Event in 2011). If the language of the relevant policy is in a language other
than English, FOWC shall obtain a translation of the policy at the expense of
the Promoter.
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           Filming/Recording at the Event
18.1 Save with the prior written consent of the FOWC and save for the
Promoter's obligation in Clause 18.3, throughout the Term during the Access
Period (and any test session held at the Circuit in which more than one
Competitor is participating (Non-Private F1 Test Series) the Promoter shall
not (nor shall the Promoter permit, enable, assist, procure W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 38 or encourage others
to) make, create, store, record or transmit an kind of sound recording or
visual or audio-visual footage (Recording) whatsoever, whether for broadcast
or any other purpose.
(a) of at or pertaining to the Event (including cars, Drivers, Competitors),
any Non-Private F1 Test Session or any aspect of them; or
(b) within the confines of the Circuit or the Land (or any other part of its
surroundings over which the Promoter has control).
18.2 Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 18.1, the Promoter shall
ensure that the terms of sale of tickets giving admittance to an Event include
acceptance by a ticket holder:
(a) that he shall not make, create, store, record or transmit any Recording of
the Event (including cars, Drivers, Competitors) or any aspect of it, and
shall not take into the Circuit any equipment that may enable him to do the
aforementioned acts (other than mobile telephones use of which is subject to
this Clause 18 and Clause 19.1 below);
(b) that as a spectator he may be filmed and sound made by him may be recorded
for broadcast (or similar transmission); and
(c) of such other terms and conditions as FOWC(acting reasonably) may request
the Promoter to include from time to time provided that the Promoter is
notified in due time and that such terms and conditions are compatible with
applicable local laws.
18.3 The Promoter shall engage a third party (the Identity of which shall be
approved by FOWC in its sole discretion) to carry out and perform on behalf of
the Promoter all services relating to the origination of the international
television feed and host broadcasting for each Event during the Term as are
specified in guidelines published annually by FOWC and provided to the
Promoter from time to time.
           Intellectual Property
           XXXXXX                  XXXXXX                  XXXXXX
           19.2    The Promoter hereby irrevocably and unconditionally;-
           (a)     assigns to FOWC with full title guarantee all copyright and other
intellectual property rights and all other rights, titles and interests (if
any) which it may now or in the future have in any Image or Recording or any
other representation or recording in any media whether now known or hereafter
invented or developed in, of or pertaining to the Event, any Non- Private F1
Test Session or any aspect of them (irrespective of who W.P.(C) 10307/2016,
W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 39 originated the same)for the
duration of those rights (including all renewals, extensions, reversions and
revivals thereof); and
(b) gives its consent (if such consent should be required) for FOWC to deal in
such rights in any way it may see fit.
Accreditation for Filming/recording 20.1 The Promoter shall ensure that
persons accredited and authorized by FOWC are permitted to enter upon the
Circuit to make sound, television or other recordings or transmissions or to
make films or other moving picture and use the facilities throughout the
Access Period and the Promoter shall accord all such persons the help and
facilities that they or FOWC may reasonably require for such purposes,
including assistance with obtaining any necessary consents, permissions or
authorizations with any local authority.
20.2 The Promoter undertakes to Notify FOWC of the dates of any test sessions
which are proposed to be held at the Circuit.
Circuit Advertising
21\. The Promoter shall not cause, permit, enable, assist, procure or
encourage the display of any advertising (other than the advertising normally
displayed on any Competitor's cars, Drivers or personnel) or other displays
on, near or which can be seen from the Circuit and/or the Land which might (in
the opinion of FOWC which shall be final and binding upon the Parties) Prevent
the lawful transmission of Images or Recordings of the Events or any part of
it in any country."
43\. The OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital,(Condensed
Version- July 2010) contains a useful commentary on what could be said to
constitute fixed place of business. The relevant extracts of the same are
reproduced below:
> "3. It could perhaps be argued that in the general definition some mention
> should also be made of the other characteristic of a permanent establishment
> to which some importance has sometimes been attached in the past, namely
> that the establishment must have a productive character, i.e. contribute to
> the profits of the enterprise. In the present definition, this course has
> not been taken. Within the framework of a well-run business organization it
> is surely axiomatic to assume that each part contributes to the productivity
> of the whole. It does not, of course, follow in every case that because in
> the wider context of the whole organization a particular establishment has a
> "productive character" it is consequently a permanent establishment to which
> profits can properly be attributed for the purpose of tax in a particular
> territory (see Commentary on paragraph 4).
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 40
4\. The term "place of business" covers any premises, facilities or
installations used for carrying on the business of the enterprise whether or
not they are used exclusively for that purpose. A place of business may also
exist where no premises are available or required for carrying on the business
of the enterprise and it simply has a certain amount of space at its disposal.
It is immaterial whether the premises, facilities or installations are owned
or rented by or are otherwise at the disposal of the enterprise. A place of
business may thus be constituted by a pitch in a market place, or by a certain
permanently used area in a customs depot (e.g. for the storage of dutiable
goods). Again the place of business may be situated in the business facilities
of another enterprise. This may be the case for instance where the foreign
enterprise has at its constant disposal certain premises or a part thereof
owned by other enterprise. 4.1 As noted above, the mere fact that an
enterprise has a certain amount of space at its disposal which is used for
business activities is sufficient to constitute a place of business. No formal
legal right to use that place is therefore required. Thus, for instance, a
permanent establishment could exist where an enterprise illegally occupied a
certain location where it carried on its business.
4.2 Whilst no formal legal right to use a particular place is required for
that place to constitute a permanent establishment, the mere presence of an
enterprise at a particular location does not necessarily mean that that
location is at the disposal of that enterprise. These principles are
illustrated by the following examples where representatives of one enterprise
are present on the premises of another enterprise. A first example is that of
a salesman who regularly visits a major customer to take orders and meets the
purchasing director in his office to do so. In that case, the customer's
premises are not at the disposal of the enterprise for which the salesman is
working and therefore do not constitute a fixed place of business through
which the business of that enterprise is carried on (depending on the
circumstances, however, paragraph 5 could apply to deem a permanent
establishment to exist).
4.3 A second example is that of an employee of a company who, for a long
period of time, is allowed to use an office in the headquarters of another
company (e.g. a newly acquired subsidiary) in order to ensure that the latter
company complies with its obligations under contracts concluded with the
former company. In that case, the employee is carrying on activities related
to the business of the former company and the office that is at his disposal
at the headquarters of the other company will constitute a permanent
establishment of his employer, provided that the office is at his disposal for
a sufficiently long period of time so as to constitute a "fixed place of
business" (see paragraphs 6 to 6.3) and that W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 41 the activities that are performed there
go beyond the activities referred to in paragraph 4 of the Article.
4.4 A third example is that of a road transportation enterprise which would
use a delivery dock at a customer's warehouse every day for a number of years
for the purpose of delivering goods purchased by that customer. In that case,
the presence of the road transportation enterprise at the delivery dock would
be so limited that that enterprise could not consider that place as being at
its disposal so as to constitute a permanent establishment of that enterprise.
4.5 A fourth example is that of a painter, who, for two years, spends three
days a week in the large office building of its main client. In that case, the
presence of the painter in that office building where he is performing the
most important functions of his business (i.e. painting) constitute a
permanent establishment of that painter.
4.6 The words "through which" must be given a wide meaning so as to apply to
any situation where business activities are carried on at a particular
location that is at the disposal of the enterprise for that purpose. Thus, for
instance, an enterprise engaged in paving a road will be considered to be
carrying on its business "through" the location where this activity takes
place.
5\. According to the definition, the place of business has to be a "fixed"
one. Thus in the normal way there has to be a link between the place of
business and a specific geographical point. It is immaterial how long an
enterprise of a Contracting State operates in the other Contracting State if
it does not do so at a distinct place, but this does not mean that the
equipment constituting the place of business has to be actually fixed to the
soil on which it stands. It is enough that the equipment remains on a
particular site (but see paragraph 20 below).
XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX
10\. The business of an enterprise is carried on mainly by the entrepreneur or
persons who are in a paid-employment relationship with the enterprise
(personnel). This personnel includes employees and other persons receiving
instructions from the enterprise (e.g. dependent agents). The powers of such
personnel in its relationship with third parties are irrelevant. It makes no
difference whether or not the dependent agent is authorized to conclude
contracts if he works at the fixed place of business (see paragraph 35 below).
But a permanent establishment may nevertheless exist if the business of the
enterprise is carried on mainly through automatic equipment, the activities of
the personnel being restricted to setting up, operating, controlling and
maintaining such W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
Page 42 equipment. Whether or not gaming and vending machines and the like set
up by an enterprise of a State in the other State constitute a permanent
establishment thus depends on whether or not the enterprise carries on a
business activity besides the initial setting up of the machines. A permanent
establishment does not exist if the enterprise merely sets up the machines and
then leases the machines to other enterprises. A permanent establishment may
exist, however, if the enterprise which sets up the machines also operates and
maintains them for its own account. This also applies if the machines are
operated and maintained by an agent dependent on the enterprise."
44\. Klaus Vogel in the commentary Double Taxation Conventions (Kluver Law
International, 2005) states that the main features of Article 5(1) are: (a)
existence of an enterprise; (b) its carrying on a business; (c) existence of a
place of business, the nature of such place being fixed and (d) through which
(i.e. through the place) the business should be carried on.
45\. Vogel further states that a place would mean an establishment and,
therefore, comprehend all the tangible assets used for carrying on a business
and "Rights, such as participation in a corporation, claims (as well as
accounts) or intangible property rights (patents, software etc.) do not amount
to permanent establishment.....the term covers both premises and other
tangible assets used by the enterprise, i.e. the place of business as a whole
must be of 'used' and not necessarily each of its component parts. Special
facilities for carrying on business are not necessarily required." A room in
which the enterprise's business is carried on could qualify for "permanent
establishment." Weight is attached to "used" criterion. That is why the living
accommodation of a travelling salesman may well be classifiable as PE. The
place of business must be "fixed one", the existence of link between the place
of business and the specific geographical bond would be sufficient. Vogel
further states that:
> "d) Power of disposition: The fixed place of business must be more than
> merely temporarily at the enterprise's disposal. A fixed place of business
> owned by an enterprise but placed at the disposal of a third party for the
> latter's own purposes (and hence not for the enterprise's), would not be a
> permanent establishment of the enterprise. It is sufficient if the W.P.(C)
> 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 43 entrepreneur has
> the power of disposition through an employee; even if he himself is
> forbidden to enter the State in question this does not preclude the
> existence of a permanent establishment in that State.........."
> XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX It is not necessary for the enterprise alone to have
> power of disposition; in fact, several parties may have such power, whether
> jointly or severally. If jointly, the fixed place of business may constitute
> a permanent establishment of each of the parties involved......"
46\. In E-Funds(supra), though the court discussed what could constitute
"fixed" place of business and did conclude that a physical presence in a
geographical area is essential, the decision was more related to an
interpretation of who is a dependent agent, so as to bring within the fold of
domestic taxation an enterprise that has an overseas tax resident status.
47\. For a better understanding, the court proposes to consider a few
illustrative cases that have ruled- across various jurisdiction how permanent
is "permanent" and how "fixed" should the establishment be. In this regard,
this Court has relied upon the commentary in Taxmann's Permanent Establishment
in International Taxation by Dr. Amar Mehta, May 2012. In Universal Furniture
Ind. AB v Government of Norway (Stavanger Court, Case No. 99-00421, dated
19-12-1999 referred to in Principles of International Taxation by Anghard
Miller and Lyn Oates, 2012) a Swedish company sold furniture abroad, that was
assembled in Sweden. It hired an individual tax resident of Norway to look
after its sales in Norway, including sales to a Swedish company, which used to
compensate him for use of a phone and other facilities. Later, the company
discontinued such payments and increased his salary. The Norwegian tax
authorities said that the Swedish company had its place of business in Norway.
The Norwegian court agreed, holding that the salesman‟s house amounted to a
place of business: it was sufficient that the Swedish Company had a place at
its disposal, i.e the Norwegian individual‟s home, which could be regarded as
"fixed".
48\. In the Swiss Server decision[Case No. II 1224/97 dated 6 September 2001,
Finanzgericht of Schleswig-Holstein (Tax Court of First Instance)], D Co -tax
resident W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 44
company of Germany - owned an Internet server installed at a rented place in
Switzerland. The company stored programs and dealt with its Swiss client‟s
files, in the server. The server functioned without involvement of D Co‟s
employees in Switzerland. A second company, S Co, which was D CO‟s affiliate
and a Swiss tax resident, managed the server (i.e. computer programs and
information about D Co‟s clients in Switzerland). D Co argued before the
German tax authorities that its Swiss server amounted to permanent
establishment and its income attributable to it was exempt from German tax.
The German tax authorities rejected this argument. In D Co‟s appeal, the
German Tax Court of First Instance held that the server constituted D.Co‟s
fixed place of business and a fixed place permanent establishment in
Switzerland. The Court‟s view was that, for a fixed place permanent
establishment to exist, it was unnecessary that the server had to be operated
by human beings (i.e. employees of D Co, a contractor or any other
enterprise). The Court pointed out that any equipment could amount to a fixed
place permanent establishment even if it functioned fully automatically
without human intervention. In so holding the Court also took into account
Art. 5(3)(a) of the Germany-Switzerland tax treaty (which was similar to Art.
5(4)(a) of the OECD MC 2010). As per that provision, the term "permanent
establishment" did not include facilities used solely for the purpose of
storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise. In that respect, the Court expressed that only the assets that
could be „itemized‟ on the enterprise's balance sheet could be regarded as
goods and merchandise. Therefore, in the Court's view, Art. 5(3)(a) of the tax
treaty did not apply to the server used for storing the information that was
supplied by D Co to its customers in Switzerland.
49\. The Court also examined Art. 5(3)(e) of the Germany-Switzerland tax
treaty. That provision negated existence of a fixed place permanent
establishment if a fixed place of business was maintained solely for the
purpose of (i) advertising, (ii) for the supply of information, (iii) for
scientific research, or (iv) for similar activities that were of preparatory
or auxiliary character. In this respect, the Court observed, the decisive
criterion was whether the activity carried on in the said place of business
formed an essential and significant part of the core business of the
enterprise as a whole. In that context, the Court observed, D Co‟s activities
through the server were not preparatory or W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 45 auxiliary since the transfer of
information formed part of D Co‟s core business. Accordingly, the Court
concluded, Art. 5(3)(e) of the Germany-Switzerland tax treaty did not apply in
the present case.
The German Court took note of paragraphs 42.1 to 42.10 of the OECD Commentary
on Art. 5, which distinguished between server hardware and server software. As
per the said commentary, a server hardware constituted a permanent
establishment if the content provider owned the server and he exercised his
business through the server. In such a situation, it was not relevant whether
the foreign enterprise used personnel in the host country where the server was
situated. Therefore, the Tax Court of first Instance concluded that the above-
mentioned computer server amounted to D. Co‟s fixed place permanent
establishment in Switzerland.
50\. In Joseph Fowler v Her Majesty the Queen 1990 (2) CTC 2351, the issue was
whether a US tax resident individual who used to visit and sell his wares in a
camper trailer, in fairs, for a number of years had a fixed place of business
in Canada. The fairs used to be once a year, approximately for three weeks
each. The court observed that the nature of the individual‟s business was such
that he held sales in similar fares, for two or three week periods, in two
other locales in the US. The court held that conceptually, the place was one
of business, notwithstanding the short duration, because it amounted to a
place of management or a branch having regard to peculiarities of the
business. The question before the AAR in Golf in Dubai LLC (AAR No.770/2008)
was whether it could be deemed to have a fixed PE since the tournaments which
it organized lasted only for 6- 7 days. The AAR concurred, however,
significantly, in the course of this order, which relied upon Applegate v. FCT
78 ATC 4054, where it was observed that the word, "permanent" is contrasted
with temporary or transitory but does not connote "everlasting" and that the
question is one of fact and degree. The AAR also noted that a place of
business can, however, constitute permanent establishment - relying upon para
6 of OECD commentary even though it exists in practice "only for a very short
period of time because of the nature of the business." Significantly, even
though in the facts of the case, the AAR ruled that a fixed place of business
existed, it acknowledged that, "even if the W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 46 business was done for short duration
with intermittent gaps, the existence of fixed place of business at a
particular spot, i.e. golf course may not be ruled out.", no hard and fast
rule can be laid down as to the number of days which can impart a degree of
permanence to the place of business to make it a fixed place.
51\. It would, for the purposes of deciding whether FOWC carried on business
in India, through a fixed place of business (which the revenue argues is the
Buddh international circuit) be necessary to consider the conditions and
stipulations in the RPC. The following, in the opinion of the Court, are
material conditions necessary for determination of whether FOWC had a PE in
India:
(a) The Budh International Circuit, is defined in Clause 1(q), as one suitable
in every respect for the staging of the event, including permanent buildings,
permanent structure, track laid-out, amenities, spectator viewing facilities,
paddock building, media centre, car parks, helipads, garages, race control and
administration, office administration, fuel and storage, tyre store,
utilities, including backup power supplies, concrete-based areas suitable to
host competitors and sponsor, vending and exhibition areas, international TV
compounds etc. These specifications are more elaborately spelt out in Clause
5(e) which states that a circuit shall be constructed, laid out and prepared
in accordance with the agreement, i.e. RPC, "in a form and manner approved by
the FOWC and the FIA".
(b) The inclusion of the event is through the FOWC's actions. In terms of its
arrangement with the FIA, it is the exclusive agency through which any
particular circuit is introduced for an event in a given calendar year.
(c) The term of the RPC is 5 years according to Clauses 3.3 and 3.4.
(d) In terms of Clause 11, Jaypee is obliged to take all action necessary to
ensure that the pit, paddock buildings and surrounding areas within the
circuit and land are open to receive the competitors, FOWC, affiliates of
FOWC, FOWC's contractors and licensees, other personnel and equipment at all
times during the period commencing 14 days before the race and ending 7 days
after the race. It also has to assure security to these areas.
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 47
(e) Under Clause 14, the promoter is obliged to authorize access to parts of
the circuit not open to the main public only through passes issued by the
FOWC. Under Clause 14(b), the public cannot have access to the cars in any of
the places where the competitor's mechanics may be called upon to work on them
and under Clause 14(c), the validity of passes issued by FOWC is
unquestionable.
(f) Under Clause 18.1, throughout the term during the access period, from the
test session held at the circuit till the end of the event, the promoter, i.e.
Jaypee cannot permit, access, enable, procure or in any manner encourage
others to make, create, store, record or transmit any sound recording or
visual or audio-visual footage whatsoever, for broadcast or any other purpose,
of any of at or pertaining to the event, including cars, drivers, competitors
etc. and in fact cannot make any such recording etc. within the confines of
the circuit or the land over which Jaypee itself has control.
(g) Under Clause 18.2, Jaypee has to ensure that the terms of the ticket sale,
giving admittance to the event include a condition imposed on the ticket
holder not to make any kind of recording or take any recording device that can
store or transmit any part of the event and that the ticket holder as a
spectator could be filmed and a sound made by him could be recorded for
broadcast or any other such item that the FOWC could impose on Jaypee.
(h) Jaypee is obliged to engage a third party approved by FOWC to carry out
and perform on its behalf all service relating to the origination of the
international television feed and host broadcasting for each event during the
term specified in the guidelines published by FOWC and provided to Jaypee.
(i) Jaypee unconditionally and irrevocably under Clause 19.2 assigned to FOWC
all copyright and other intellectual property rights, titles and interest
which it may now or may in future possess, in any image or recording or other
presentation or recording in any image/form whatsoever for the duration of the
rights and also give consent to FOWC to deal with such rights as it pleased.
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 48
(j) Clause 20.1 obliged Jaypee to ensure that those accredited and authorized
by FOWC were permitted to enter upon the premises to make sound, television or
recordings or transmissions or make films or other pictures and use the
facilities throughout the access period and also undertook to accord to such
personnel all help and facilities that FOWC would require, including
assistance for consent, permission or authorization with any local authority.
(k) Under Clause 21, Jaypee was prohibited from causing, permitting, enabling
assisting or in any manner encouraging display of any advertisement (other
than the normal advertisement displayed on any competitor's cars) or other
displays on, near or which could be seen from the circuit or the land which,
in the opinion of the FOWC, could prevent lawful transmission of images or
recordings of the event. FOWC's say in this regard was final.
(l) In the Director‟s report of FOWC, the company significantly mentioned that
its current company had entered into an agreement with FIA as a result of
which FOWC acquired commercial interests in the championship which became
operative from 01.11.2011 and that in exploitation of such commercial rights
in the championship, the total revenues generated was US$ 1205 million. There
is an express advertence of the Indian part of the turn-over - inasmuch as the
report said that the company paid US$ 127 million to FOM in return of
provision of services.
52\. It is evident that for the duration of the event as well as two weeks
prior to it and a week succeeding it, FOWC had full access through its
personnel, the team contracted to it, both racing as well as spectator teams
and could also dictate who were authorized to enter the areas reserved for it.
No doubt, in terms of the agreement, i.e. RPC, Jaypee was designated as the
promoter or the event host. A look at the RPC and its terms as well as the
other terms contained in the agreement between the Jaypee on the one hand and
All Sports, Beta Prema 2 as well as FOAM show that Jaypee's capacity to act -
though it promoted the event, was extremely restricted. At all material times,
FOWC had access - exclusively, to the circuit, and all the spaces where the
teams were located. Jaypee created W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 49 the circuit for the purposes of the event and other
events; yet, during the event, i.e. the F1 Championship, no other event was
possible.
53\. Having regard to the nature of the preceding discussion, it is evident
that though FOWC's access or right to access was not permanent, in the sense
of its being everlasting, at the same time, the model of commercial
transactions it chose is such that its exclusive circuit access - to the team
and its personnel or those contracted by it, was for up-to six weeks at a time
during the F1 Championship season. This nature of activity, i.e racing and
exploitation of all the bundle of rights the FOWC had as CRH, meant that it
was a shifting or moving presence: the teams competed in the race in a given
place and after its conclusion, moved on to another locale where a similar
race is conducted. Now with this kind of activity, although there may not be
substantiality in an absolute sense with regard to the time period, both the
exclusive nature of the access and the period for which it is accessed, in the
opinion of the Court, makes the presence of a kind contemplated under Article
5(1), i.e. it is fixed. In other words, the presence is neither ephemeral or
fleeting, or sporadic. The fact that RPC-2011's tenure is of five years, meant
that there was a repetition; furthermore, FOWC was entitled even in the event
of a termination, to two years' payment of the assured consideration of US$ 40
million (Clause 24 of the RPC). Having regard to the OECD commentary and Klaus
Vogel's commentary on the general principles applicable that as long as the
presence is in a physically defined geographical area, permanence in such
fixed place could be relative having regard to the nature of the business, it
is hereby held that the circuit itself constituted a fixed place of business.
Did FOWC carry on business and if so, did it carry on business and commercial
activity in India?
54\. For a better understanding and appreciation of this question, it would be
essential to recount briefly, certain salient facts. FIA is the motorsport
regulatory authority. It had a pre-existing arrangement with Formula One
Administration Ltd. (FOA), which held all commercial rights. In terms of a
Concorde Agreement, between FIA, FOA and FOWC, it was decided that all
commercial rights would continue with FOA till31.12.2010 and then vest for 100
years (01.01.2011 to 31.12.2110) with FOWC, which was called the W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 50 "Commercial Rights
Holder" (CRH). The Concorde Agreement assured the participating teams
(detailed in a schedule) that the FIA had exclusive right in the F1
Championship and was "entitled to grant to the Commercial Rights Holder" the
exclusive right to exploit the commercial rights in the F1 championship."
Subject to these conditions, each team undertook to "participate in the FIA F1
Championship each year for every Event" and make cars available and compete in
fact, every team undertook to participate in each event with two cars. FIA
undertook to ensure that events were held and the CRH (i.e. FOWC) undertook to
enter into contracts with event promoters to host such events [4.3(c)]. Under
Clause 10, the FOWC had the right to draw the FIA F1 Championship for any
season to be approved by FIA (which could not be unreasonably withheld). FIA
also gave its undertakings. Under Clause 11, the right to issue passes is with
FOWC. Clause 17 sets out the conditions of payment to the teams.
55\. If the terms of the Concorde Agreement are read conjointly with the
RPC-2011, it is apparent that the CRH, which is the FOWC, only and none else
has the right to include a venue in any FIA annual calendar. FIA is bound to
accord permission for such inclusion; FOWC is the exclusive commercial rights
holder of a host of rights (evident from the recital in the Concorde Agreement
that FIA, FOWC and other members of the CRH group had entered into such
contracts to enable commercial exploitation of the rights for a 100 year
period). Under the RPC-2011, only FOWC has exclusive rights towards making
sound, television and other recordings and exploitation of its media rights.
FOWC has copyright over databases and all related information, etc. generated,
during the event, including practice sessions etc. (Clause 22, RPC-2011). Only
those accredited by FOWC can enter the promoter's premises and circuit to make
sound and television recordings, etc.
56\. It is quite apparent that save a limited class of rights (those relating
to paddock entry, ticketing, hospitality at the venue and a restricted class
of advertising), all commercial exploitation rights vest exclusively with
FOWC. FOWC did accept them and was entitled to charge fees or such other
consideration as it deemed appropriate for the recording, telecasting,
broadcasting and creation of internet and media rights, including W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 51 data transmission,
and all other such commercially exploitable rights. In addition, FOWC charged,
by Clause 24 of RPC-2011, a fee of US$ 40 million annually from Jaypee, in
relation to the race event or FIA F1 Championship event conducted on the
circuit in India.
57\. It is also noteworthy that by virtue of the Concorde Agreement, the teams
have undertaken to engage in every race - with the added condition that each
team would involve two cars for every race in any circuit chosen by FOWC.
RPC-2011 also assured that the FOWC would ensure that such team did in fact
participate in the event in the Budh Circuit. This is an important fact- which
shows that the entire event, i.e. F1 FIA Championship in the circuit was
organized and controlled in every sense of the term by FOWC. The peculiarity
of this activity is such that FOWC's dominant role is evident; it is the
moving spirit with all pervasive presence and control through the teams, which
are contracted to participate in the event. In fact, it creates the event,
i.e. the race. Each actor, such the promoter/Jaypee, the racing teams, the
constructing teams and the other affiliates, plays a part in the event. FOWC's
participation and the undertakings given to it by each of these actors, who
are responsible for the event as a whole, brings out its central and dominant
role. If Jaypee is the event promoter, which owns the title to the circuit in
the sense that it owns the land, FOWC is the commercial rights owner of the
event, by virtue of the Concorde Agreement. FIA parted with all its rights
over each commercial right it possessed to FOWC. The bulk of the revenue
earned is through media, television and other related rights. The terms or the
basis of those rights is the event. The conceptualization of the event and the
right to include it in any particular circuit, such as Buddh Circuit is that
of the FOWC; it decides the venue and the participating teams are bound to it
to compete in the race in the terms agreed with the FOWC. All these, in the
opinion of the Court, unequivocally, show that the FOWC carried on business in
India for the duration of the race (and for two weeks before the race and a
week thereafter). Every right, which it possessed was monetized; the US$ 40
million which Jaypee paid was only a part of that commercial exploitation by
the FOWC.
58\. Consequently, the Court concludes that the FOWC carried on business in
India within the meaning of expression under Article 5(1) of the DTAA. It is
consequently held W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
Page 52 that the AAR fell into error of law in holding that FOWC did not
function through a PE/carry on business through a fixed place of business in
India.
Regarding Question No.2, did the FOWC carry on business through its agents
under Article 5(4) or Article 5(5)
59\. The discussion on whether there was or were dependent agents which led to
FOWC‟s PE is rendered academic, in view of this court‟s finding that there was
a fixed PE. However, we are conscious that this judgment is subject to appeal;
therefore we proceed to discuss the issue of existence of dependent PEs.
60\. The relevant provisions of the DTAA- Articles 5 (4) and 5 (5) are
extracted below:
> "4. A person acting in a Contracting State for or on behalf of an enterprise
> of the other contracting State - other than an agent of an independent
> status to whom paragraph (5) of this Article applies, shall be deemed to be
> a permanent establishment of that enterprise in the first mentioned State
> if:
> (a) he has and habitually exercises in that State, an authority to negotiate
> and enter into contracts for or on behalf of the enterprise, unless his
> activities are limited to the purchase of goods or merchandise for the
> enterprise; or
> (b) he habitually maintains in the first-mentioned Contracting State a stock
> of goods or merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods or
> merchandise for or on behalf of the enterprise; or
> (c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or
> almost wholly for the enterprise itself or for the enterprise and the
> enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same common
> control, as that enterprise.
5\. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission
agent or any other agent of an independent status, where such persons are
acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, if the activities of
such an agent are carried out wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise (or
for the enterprise and other enterprises which are W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 53 controlled by it or have a controlling
interest in it or are subject to same common control) he shall not be
considered to be an agent of an independent status for the purposes of this
paragraph."
61\. The revenue‟s argument was that the terms of Article 5 were satisfied if
the place is at the disposal of the enterprise to be used in business. He has
referred to paragraph 4 of OECD commentary as under:-
> "4. It is immaterial whether the premises, facilities or installations are
> owned or rented by or are otherwise at the disposal of the enterprise....
> Again the place of business may be situated in the business facilities of
> another enterprise.
> 4\. 1 As noted above, the mere fact that an enterprise has a certain amount
> of space at its disposal which is used for business activities is sufficient
> to constitute a place of business. No formal/legal right to use that place
> is therefore required."
62\. It was argued that dependent agents worked for and on behalf of the
enterprise (FOWC) from the place made available to the enterprise and in such
a situation it may not be necessary to examine the PE under para 4 or 5 of
Article 5 and to apply more stringent conditions of having authority to
conclude contracts. He has referred to para 10 of OECD commentary as under:-
> "The business of an enterprise is carried on mainly by the entrepreneur or
> persons who are in a paid-employment relationship with the enterprise
> personnel. This personnel includes employees and other persons receiving
> instructions from the enterprise (e.g. dependent agents). The powers of such
> personnel in its relationship with third parties are irrelevant. It makes no
> difference whether or not the dependent agent is authorised to conclude
> contracts if he works at the fixed place of business (see paragraph 35
> below).
> "35. Under paragraph 5, only those persons who meet the specific conditions
> may create a permanent establishment; all other persons are excluded. It
> should be borne in mind, however, that paragraph 5 simply provides an
> alternative test of whether an enterprise has a permanent establishment in a
> State. If it can be shown that the enterprise has a permanent establishment
> within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 2 (subject to the provisions of
> paragraph (4), it is not necessary to show that the person in charge is one
> who would fall under paragraph 5."
Since FOWC has to exploit commercial rights arising from races and this
business is W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 54
carried on through exploitation of these commercial rights either by itself or
through any one or more members of the CRH group as mentioned in the Concorde
Agreement, FOWC is obligated to propose consolidated accounts incorporating
profits of all entities forming part of CRH group. The revenue had relied on
the fact that commercial rights were originally owned by FIA, transferred in
2001 to SLEC Holding Company (parent company of FOWC) for a consideration,
then given to FOAM and w.e.f. 1.1.2011 transferred to FOWC. It was urged that
FOWC‟s three affiliates i.e. Formula One Management Ltd. ('FOM'), Allsports
Management SA and Beta Prema 2 Ltd. were its agents who carried on its
business and on its behalf, through the fixed place. It was submitted that
that all the commercial rights originally vested and were granted to only FOWC
under the Concorde agreement, with a stipulation that FOWC may transfer or
assign such rights only to other group entities. It has further said that the
commercial rights could only stay within the Commercial Rights Holder group
(CRH group), which included FOWC, its affiliates and other entities. These
entities acted for and on behalf of Jaypee, which did not get anything from
these arrangements, and these entities were not holder of commercial rights.
Therefore, he argued that these entities acted for and on behalf of FOWC.
According to him FOM was business manager of FOWC, it had a business
management agreement with FOWC, 146 employees of FOM were in India for 40 days
and based on these facts Revenue's counsel has concluded that FOM managed the
entire business of FOWC in lndia. As regards Allsports, which carried out sale
of tickets, it too acted on behalf of FOWC because no commercial rights were
transferred to Allsports. Similar conclusion arguments were made in case of
Beta Prema 2 for the reason that it exploited certain commercial rights
available only with FOWC. It was also submitted that PE gets constituted under
Article 5(4) of DTAA also for the reason that FOM is agent and business
manager of FOWC and Beta Prema 2 and All Sports have no independent status.
63\. AAR rejected the revenue‟s contention, holding that the theory of Revenue
that all three entities Beta Prema 2, Allsports, FOM were acting on behalf of
FOWC was unfounded. It was held that there is no evidence to suggest that Beta
Prema 2, All Sports and FOM are acting on behalf of the FOWC and all
arrangements and agreements in W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 55 relation to activities performed by these 3 entities are
sham.
64\. Article 5(5) has certain preconditions if an entity has to be treated as
dependent agent. The agent must have the authority to conclude contracts,
which bind the represented enterprise, and it must habitually exercise such
authority. If these positive preconditions are met, then only an enterprise
shall be deemed to have a PE in that state in respect of any activities, which
that person undertakes for the enterprise. The contention that because the
three entities were subsidiaries of FOWC, they acted on its behalf and thus
become dependent agents is insubstantial. The mere circumstance that the three
subsidiaries had a connection with FOWC was not enough; what is to be shown is
that the contracts they entered into and the businesses they were engaged in,
was for and on behalf of FOWC. Each of the three agreements independently
entered into by them with Jaypee contains no pointers to this fact.
Re Question No. 3: Was the payment made by Jaypee to FOWC in the nature of
royalty, under the DTAA, for the use of the latter's trademark
65\. FOWC and Jaypee argue that the rights given to the latter under the RPC
was the grant of a bundle of rights the basic objective of which were to
enable it, as the promoter to stage a motor racing event in India at its
circuit, the Buddh International Circuit, that would be an official round of
the FIA Formula One World Championship, in which all participant teams and
drivers in that Championship would therefore compete. The permission to use
the F1 marks for purposes limited to advertising the Event was incidental to
the grant of that principal right to enable hosting of the event. They also
argue that under the terms of the RPC and the ALA Jaypee had no independent
right of commercial exploitation of the marks. Therefore, the two independent
contracting parties agreed that no consideration was payable to FOWC in
relation to the use of the marks. Though the right included the right to name
the event specifically, it was predominantly in the nature of a pure
commercial right. It was argued that the payment to FOWC was the dominant
purpose of securing the right to "put on" (i.e. host, stage and promote) at
its circuit and as its own commercial venture, an official round of a globally
popular international sporting series. The consideration was not paid for the
use of any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property mentioned in
the definition of 'royalty', whether W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 56 under second Explanation to Section 9(1)(vi) of the
Act or Article 13(3) of the India-UK DTAA. The ALA was incidental to and a
mere consequence of the RPC. Its purpose was to ensure that the use of Fl and
related marks would be strictly controlled and limited to the sole purpose of
promoting the event(s), and that Jaypee and other third parties would not be
permitted to use the marks in connection with any other unauthorized activity
or commercial venture that could damage or dilute the reputation and prestige
of the Championship. FOWC and Jaypee therefore urge that the AAR‟s finding
that the payment amounted to "royalty" is contrary to law. They argue that the
AAR also erred in distinguishing and not following Sheraton(supra). The
revenue on the other hand, supports the AAR‟s conclusions and findings; it
urges that the terms of the ALA and the RPC clearly show that the payment of
US$ 40 million was to enable Jaypee the use of the F1 trademark and logo; they
point out that these marks figured prominently in the trackside advertisements
and the tickets that were printed. The use of the logo, to promote the event,
therefore meant use of the F1 marks. The nomenclature or terms of an agreement
are not always determinative of the true nature of the transaction; in this
case, it clearly was to permit the use of the F1 mark. The character of the
event would have been different had the F1 marks not been used by Jaypee. It
was held that the popularity of the event is a result only of the use of the
Marks, and that without those marks it would not enjoy its popularity
otherwise.
66\. Under trademark law, particularly in India, trademark use even for
advertisement purposes is to be preceded by prior consent of the proprietor
and any unauthorized use of the trademark without such prior permission of the
proprietor could lead to an infringement of the trademark (in India, under
section 29 of the Trade Marks Act,1999). To secure registration for the marks
in India from the Trademark Registry, FOWC and Jaypee entered into the ALA.
The function of the ALA was (a) to provide for a strictly limited usage of the
marks i.e. only for advertisement and promotion of the Indian Grand Prix
Event; (b) to provide for restrictions on usage of such marks, i.e. not for
any commercial purposes such as use on merchandise, etc.
67\. The grant of a right, in the form of license to use the trademark is
primarily to be utilized in the licensee‟s product. In a typical case of
licensing, the trademark proprietor W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 57 does not wish to mark its products in an area; it
licenses the mark, to be used by the licensee‟s products, subject to
limitations. The licensee has no right to initiate legal proceedings, in the
event of infringement, unless specifically authorized; the property in the
mark always vests with the owner. Even the use of the mark by the licensee
inures to the owner, as the latter‟s continuous use, in terms of Section 48 of
the Trademarks Act. Typically, therefore when a trade vendor or establishment
sells branded goods, it is incorrect to state that the income earned by the
vendor is generated from the brand or mark, associated with the product,
rather than from sale of the product itself. It would be incorrect therefore,
to conclude that income earned is not from the sale of the product, but from
marketing intangibles connected with the reputation of the mark, though that
reputation guarantees a high demand for the product, from which the seller
benefits. Likewise, in the case of distribution, a distribution agent is under
an agreement with the manufacturer to sell its good; it also possesses the
right to advertise the goods and brands of the manufacturer. This implies a
license of the manufacturer‟s trademark. In such an event, the distributor
need not pay for the right to use the intellectual property under which the
goods are sold; he merely pays for obtaining the exclusive commercial right to
sell the goods he buys from the manufacturer for enabling onward sale.
68\. Para 10.1 of OECD commentary on Article 12 of the Model Convention states
that payments solely made in consideration for obtaining the exclusive
distribution rights of a product or service in a given territory are not
royalty, since the resident distributor does not pay for the right to use the
trade name or trade mark under which the products are sold but merely obtains
the exclusive right to sell in his state of residence the product that he is
agreeing to buy from the manufacturer; such payments will be characterized as
business income.
69\. It is relevant here to consider the conditions in the RPC and the ALA,
which FOWC entered into with Jaypee. Under recital B to the RPC, FOWC clearly
has the exclusive right to exploit the commercial rights in the championship
and to award Jaypee the right to host, stage and promote F1 Grand Prix events.
Clause 17, states that FOWC would through reasonable endeavors ensure that at
least sixteen cars participate in the Event. Clause 18 forbids Jaypee from
making any audio or visual image of the event;
W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 58 likewise
there are restrictions in clause 19 of the RPC. Clause 23.2 permits FOWC to
make incidental use of I.P. rights solely for the limited purpose of
facilitating Jaypee to promote the event. Under the RPC Jaypee remains liable
to pay the full contractual amount in the year of termination and in the
subsequent year, the right to use trademarks, logos and IP Rights ceases
instantly, the moment termination takes place. This is a strong pointer to the
fact that the amounts payable by Jaypee to FOWC under the RPC are really for
the privilege of hosting and staging the championship race and not for the IP
rights, which in any event, could be utilized by it only to promote the race
and for no other purpose.
70\. Clauses 23.3 and 23.4 of the RPC are to be read in conjunction with the
ALA. The ALA does not confer any additional rights, neither was a license nor
any form of right to use the trademark given to Jaypee by FOWC which resulted
in royalty payment within the meaning of Article 13 of the DTAA.
71\. The judgment in Director of Income Tax v. Ericsson A.B. [2012] 343 ITR
470 (Del), held that a lump-sum payment which is not based on or connected
with the extent of the user of the IP rights would not constitute "royalties"
within the meaning of the DTAA. In the present case, the payments made under
the RPC were separate lump-sum amounts in respect of the three separate race
events held in each of the three (3) years 2011 to 2013. It is not a payment,
which is based on either the number of tickets sold or the total amount of
revenue earned by Jaypee in each of the said years or indeed on any other
measure. In the present case, the lump sum payable to FOWC by Jaypee would
likewise, not constitute royalties. Importantly, recital (B) of the ALA
specifically stated that FOWC wished to grant a license to Jaypee permitting
only the incidental use of certain IP rights and artwork "solely for the
limited purpose of facilitating the hosting, staging and promotion of the
event". The definition of "permitted use" in clause 1.1 of the ALA states that
it means only the incidental use of the licensed marks and materials "for the
purpose of hosting, staging or promoting the event, but for the avoidance of
doubt, not to include use for any merchandising or other products or services
whatsoever, whether distributed free of charge or for sale". Clauses 2.2 and
6.2 of the ALA provide that the ALA will continue only until the RPC
terminates or expires; Clause 2.3 of the ALA W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 59 prohibits Jaypee from using any of the
licensed marks, or as part of the name of the circuit, any corporate name, any
domain name, website address or other URL identification or equivalent used in
association with Jaypee. Jaypee thus has no IP rights whatsoever independently
of the staging and hosting of the event. The undertakings given by Jaypee, set
out in Clauses 3.1(e) and 3.6 of the ALA too reinforce this conclusion. These
are strong indications that the parties did not intend, through the RPC and
the ALA, to license the trademark. Thus, it does not amount to royalty under
the DTAA. The court is in agreement with FOWC‟s position on the definition of
"royalty" as set out in the second Explanation to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act;
it is significantly broader than the definition of "royalties" set out in
Article 13(3) of the India-UK DTAA. The definition in the Act specifically
covers and includes lump-sum payments, whereas Article 13(3) of the DTAA only
refers to payments.
72\. The impugned order neither contains any discussion nor finding whatsoever
on this crucial issue even though it goes to the root of the entire case. The
entire tenor of the agreement- even the main purpose of the RPC, is not for
the grant of trademark rights or privilege or license to use. The payments
made to it under the RPC are not "royalty" either under the Act or the DTAA,
they most certainly are not for the use of trademarks or IP rights, but rather
for the grant of the privilege of staging, hosting and promoting the Event at
the promoter's racing circuit in Noida(NCR). FOWC under the RPC, made
available to Jaypee all of the elements which constitute the event. In
particular, this includes nominating (to FIA) the promoter's event for
inclusion in the official F1 racing calendar; after such inclusion the F1
racing teams with their F1 cars and drivers were bound to participate in
Jaypee's event held at the Promoter's racing circuit, strictly in conformity
with the requirements of the F1 Sporting and Technical Regulations and the FIA
Sporting Code. Therefore, the grant of F1 rights by the FOWC to Jaypee is
merely incidental to the hosting and staging of the event by it, and this is
clear from the fact that the use of rights by Jaypee has been strictly
confined and limited to use only for the promotion of the event, and for no
other purpose and in no other manner whatsoever.
73\. In Sheraton International Inc (supra), this court upheld the findings of
the ITAT, which had concluded that when the main work of the foreign
collaborator was to render W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 60 services in relation to advertisement, publicity and sales
promotion, its incidental use of the trademark did not amount to receipt of
royalty by it:
> "As regards the payments received on account of SCI and FFP the Tribunal
> noted that since the job undertaken by the assessee company was in the
> nature of „integrated business‟ arrangement, whereby services were rendered
> to its client-hotels in relation to advertisements, publicity and sales
> promotion of hotel business worldwide to further their mutual interest all
> services including the use of trademark and other services enumerated in the
> Article including the programmes, in issue, such as SCI and FFP were
> incidental to the said business arrangement between the assessee and its
> client- hotels. It concluded by holding that these programmes were not
> independent or separate from the main job undertaken by the assessee and
> since, the entire amount towards the service had been held by the Tribunal
> as business income, the contributions received by the assessee towards the
> said programmes i.e., SCI and FFP were also in the nature of business
> income. It thus rejected the contention of the Revenue that these
> contributions were in the nature of included services under Article 12 (4)
> (a) of the DTAA (see paragraph
> 114).
> 13\. In view of the aforesaid findings of the Tribunal that the main service
> rendered by the assessee to its client-hotels was advertisement, publicity
> and sales promotion keeping in mind their mutual interest and, in that
> context, the use of trademark, trade name or the stylized "S" or other
> enumerated services referred to in the agreement with the assessee were
> incidental to the said main service, it rightly concluded, in our view, that
> the payments received were neither in the nature of royalty under Section
> 9(1)(vi) read with explanation 2 or in the nature of fee for technical
> services under Section 9(1)(vii) read with explanation 2 or taxable under
> Article 12 of the DTAA. The payments received were thus, rightly held by the
> Tribunal, to be in the nature of business income. And since the assessee
> admittedly does not have a permanent establishment under the Article 7 of
> the DTAA „business income‟ received by the assessee cannot be brought to tax
> in India. The findings of the Tribunal on this account cannot be faulted.
> The Tribunal pointedly observed that there was no evidence brought on record
> by the Revenue to enable them to hold that the agreement was a colourable
> device, in particular, that the payments received were for use of trade
> mark, brand name and stylized mark "S". We agree with reasoning adopted by
> the Tribunal."
There is no doubt that the main object of the RPC and the relevant provisions
of the ALA was not the permission to use the trademarks, but granting and
designating Jaypee as the promoter of the event and laying out the rights of
the parties, particularly FOWC as W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 &
W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 61 regards the event, the spaces to be made available
to it exclusively, the sole and exclusive rights over all event related
activities, the right to exploit them commercially, etc. The use of the mark
on the tickets sold by Jaypee was only incidental. The AAR‟s findings that the
use of the mark and intellectual property rights benefited Jaypee, which paid
for them, is entirely erroneous. Jaypee‟s permitted use, as it were, was for a
limited duration and of an extremely restricted manner; this is contained in
the definition of "permitted use" in the ALA:
> "Permitted use means incidental use of the Licensed Marks solely as part of
> the Artwork and the Licensed Materials in accordance with the Design
> Guidelines and strictly as approved by FOWC, for the purpose of hosting,
> staging and promoting the Event but, for the avoidance of doubt, not to
> include use for any merchandising or other products or service whatsoever,
> whether distributed free of charge or for sale."
As event promoter and host Jaypee had to publicize the F1 Grand Prix
Championship. Therefore, it was bound to use the F1 marks, logos and devices;
however, it was not authorized to use the marks on any merchandise or service
offered by it. This condition, in the opinion of the court, places the matter
beyond the pale of controversy; the use of the trademarks were purely
incidental. The conclusion of the AAR is therefore, incorrect. The answer to
the question is that the amounts paid to FOWC by Jaypee were not "royalty"
within the meaning of Article 13 of the DTAA, as they were business income and
could not be brought to tax under the head of "royalty".
Question No. 4: Whether the AAR erred in its interpretation of Section 195 in
Jaypee's application
74\. Section 195 of the Income Tax Act reads as follows:
> "195. Other sums (1) Any person responsible for paying to a non- resident,
> not being a company, or to a foreign company, any interest (not being
> interest on securities) or any other sum chargeable under the provisions of
> this Act (not being income chargeable under the head" Salaries"3 ]) shall,
> at the time of credit of such income to the account of the payee or at the
> time of payment thereof in cash or by the issue of a cheque or draft or by
> any other mode, whichever is earlier, deduct income- tax thereon at the
> rates in force:
Provided that in the case of interest payable by the Government or a W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 62 public sector bank
within the meaning of clause (23D) of section 10 or a public financial
institution within the meaning of that clause, deduction of tax shall be made
only at the time of payment thereof in cash or by the issue of a cheque or
draft or by any other mode.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, where any interest or other
sum as aforesaid is credited to any account, whether called" Interest Payable
Account" or" Suspense Account" or by any other name, in the books of account
of the person liable to pay such income, such crediting shall be deemed to be
credit of such income to the account of the payee and the provisions of this
section shall apply accordingly.
(2) Where the person responsible for paying any such sum chargeable under this
Act (other than interest on securities, and salary) to a non- resident
considers that the whole of such sum would not be income chargeable in the
case of the recipient, he may make an application 1 to the 2 Assessing]
Officer to determine, 3 by general or special order], the appropriate
proportion of such sum so chargeable, and upon such determination, tax shall
be deducted under sub- section (1) only on that proportion of the sum which is
so chargeable:
(3) Subject to rules made under sub- section (5), any person entitled to
receive any interest or other sum on which income- tax has to be deducted
under sub- section (1) may make an application in the prescribed form to the
Assessing Officer for the grant of a certificate authorising him to receive
such interest or other sum without deduction of tax under that subsection, and
where any such certificate is granted, every person responsible for paying
such interest or other sum to the person to whom such certificate is granted
shall, so long as the certificate is in force, make payment of such interest
or other sum without deducting tax thereon under sub- section (1)."
75\. The issue of payment to non-residents and the obligation to deduct tax
u/s 195 of the Act on such payments vis-à-vis taxability of remittances has
been deliberated upon by the Supreme Court in GE India Technology Centre (P)
Ltd Vs. CIT & Anr, [2010] 327 ITR 456 (SC).The Court held that the payer is
bound to deduct tax at source only if the sum paid is assessable to tax in
India and that Section 195 also covers composite payments which have an
element of income embedded or incorporated in them. The Court clarified that
though there is an obligation to deduct tax in respect of such composite
payment but the obligation is limited to the appropriate portion of income
which is chargeable under the head and in case of such payments which include
amounts on which no tax is payable, recourse is to be made u/s 195(2) of the
Act and in the absence of such action, tax is to be deducted on the entire
composite payment. The W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C)
10145/2016 Page 63 Supreme Court held as under:-
> "In our view, section 195 (2) provides a remedy by which a person may seek a
> determination of the "appropriate proportion of such sum so chargeable"
> where a proportion of the sum so chargeable is liable to tax. The entire
> basis of the Department's contention is based on administrative convenience
> in support of its interpretation. According to the Department, huge seepage
> of revenue can take place if persons making payments to non-residents are
> free to deduct TAS or not to deduct TAS. It is the case of the Department
> that section 195 (2), as interpreted by the High Court, would plug the
> loophole as the said interpretation requires the payer to make a declaration
> before the Income tax Officer (TDS) of payments made to non-residents. In
> other words, according to the Department, section 195 (2) is a provision by
> which the payer is required to inform the Department of the remittances he
> makes to non-residents by which the Department is able to keep track of the
> remittances being made to non- residents outside India. We find no merit in
> these contentions. As stated hereinabove, section 195 (2) uses the
> expression "sum chargeable under the provisions of the Act." We need to give
> weightage to those words. Further, section 195 uses the word "payer" and not
> the word "assessee". The payer is not an assessee. The payer becomes an
> assessee-in-default only when he fails to fulfill the statutory obligation
> under section 195(1).
If the payment does not contain the element of income the payer cannot be made
liable. He cannot be declared to be an assessee-in-default. The abovementioned
contention of the Department is based on an apprehension which is ill-founded.
The payer is also an assessee under the ordinary provisions of the Income-tax
Act. When the payer remits an amount to a non-resident out of India he claims
deduction or allowances under the Income- tax Act for the said sum as an
"expenditure". Under section 40 (a)(i), inserted, vide Finance Act, 1988, with
effect from April 1, 1989, payment in respect of royalty, fees for technical
services or other sums chargeable under the Income-tax Act would not get the
benefit of deduction if the assessee fails to deduct TAS in respect of
payments outside India which are chargeable under the Income-tax Act. This
provision ensures effective compliance with section 195 of the Income-tax Act
relating to tax deduction at source in respect of payments outside India in
respect of royalties, fees or other sums chargeable under the Income-tax Act.
In a given case where the payer is an assessee he will definitely claim
deduction under the Income-tax Act for such remittance and on inquiry if the
Assessing Officer finds that the sums remitted outside India come within the
definition of royalty or fees for technical service or other sums chargeable
under the Income- tax Act then it would be open to the Assessing Officer to
disallow such claim for deduction. Similarly, vide the Finance Act 2008, with
effect from April 1, 2008, sub-section (6) has W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C)
9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 64 been inserted in section 195 which
requires the payer to furnish information relating to payment of any sum in
such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Board. This provision is
brought into force only from April 1, 2008. It will not apply for the period
with which we are concerned in these cases before us. Therefore, in our view,
there are adequate safeguards in the Act which would prevent revenue leakage.
Applicability of the judgment in the case of Transmission Corporation (supra)
10\. In Transmission Corporation's case [1999] 239 ITR 587 (SC) a non-resident
had entered into a composite contract with the resident party making the
payments. The said composite contract not only comprised supply of plant,
machinery and equipment in India, but also comprised the installation and
commissioning of the same in India. It was admitted that the erection and
commissioning of plant and machinery in India gave rise to income taxable in
India. It was, therefore, clear even to the payer that payments required to be
made by him to the non-resident included an element of income, which was
exigible to tax in India. The only issue raised in that case was whether TDS
was applicable only to pure income payments and not to composite payments
which had an element of income embedded or incorporated in them. The
controversy before us in this batch of cases is, therefore, quite different.
In Transmission Corporation case [1999] 239 ITR 587 (SC) it was held that TAS
was liable to be deducted by the payer on the gross amount if such payment
included in it an amount which was exigible to tax in India. It was held that
if the payer wanted to deduct TAS not on the gross amount but on the lesser
amount, on the footing that only a portion of the payment made represented
"income chargeable to tax in India", then it was necessary for him to make an
application under section 195 (2) of the Act to the Income-tax Officer (TDS)
and obtain his permission for deducting TAS at lesser amount. Thus, it was
held by this court that if the payer had a doubt as to the amount to be
deducted as TAS he could approach the Income-tax Officer (TDS) to compute the
amount which was liable to be deducted at source. In our view, section 195 (2)
is based on the "principle of proportionality". The said subsection gets
attracted only in cases where the payment made is a composite payment in which
a certain proportion of payment has an element of "income" chargeable to tax
in India. It is in this context that the Supreme Court stated, "If no such
application is filed, income-tax on such sum is to be deducted and it is the
statutory obligation of the person responsible for paying such `sum' to deduct
tax thereon before making payment. He has to discharge the obligation to TDS".
If one reads the observation of the Supreme Court, the words "such sum"
clearly indicate that the observation refers to a case of composite payment
where the payer has a doubt regarding the inclusion of an amount in such
payment W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 65
which is exigible to tax in India. In our view, the above observations of this
court in Transmission Corporation case [1999] 239 ITR 587 (SC) which are put
in italics have been completely, with respect, misunderstood by the Karnataka
High Court to mean that it is not open for the payer to contend that if the
amount paid by him to the non-resident is not at all "chargeable to tax in
India", then no TAS is required to be deducted from such payment. This
interpretation of the High Court completely loses sight of the plain words of
section 195 (2) which in clear terms lay down that tax at source is deductible
only from "sums chargeable" under the provisions of the Income- tax Act, i.e.,
chargeable under Sections 4, 5 and 9 of the Income-tax Act."
76\. As is evident, the object of the provision is to clarify what proportion
of the payment made by the payer is liable to tax deduction. In the present
case, Jaypee, no doubt, supported FOWC‟s argument that payments made to the
latter were not by way of royalties; at the same time, because of the doubt
entertained, it sought clarification through the application to the AAR.
Having regard to the conclusions reached by us that FOWC carried on business
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
Page 66 FOWC‟s PE under Article 5 (1). No costs. The order shall be given
dasti under signatures of court master, to the parties.
S. RAVINDRA BHAT (JUDGE) NAJMI WAZIRI (JUDGE) NOVEMBER 30, 2016 W.P.(C)
10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016 Page 67
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
           JAIPRAKASH ASSOCIATES LTD.                   ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                   ..... Respondent
                           Through : Sh. S. Ganesh, Sr. Advocate with Ms.
                           Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Sh. Sachit
                           Jolly, Sh. Gautam Swarup, Sh. Siddhartha Singh
                           and Sh. Amaya Pant, Advocates, for petitioner in
                           W.P.(C) 10307/2016 and for Respondent No.1 in
                           W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016.
                                   Sh. Arvind Datar, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Kamal
                                   Deep Dayal, Sh. Ankur Saigal and Sh. Shayan,
                                   Advocates, for JAL.
                                   Sh. G.C. Shrivastava, Sr. Standing Counsel and Sh.
                                   Rahul Chaudhary, Sr. Standing Counsel, for
                                   Income Tax Department.
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                  Page 1
            CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
           JAIPRAKASH ASSOCIATES LTD.                   ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                   ..... Respondent
                           Through : Sh. S. Ganesh, Sr. Advocate with Ms.
                           Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Sh. Sachit
                           Jolly, Sh. Gautam Swarup, Sh. Siddhartha Singh
                           and Sh. Amaya Pant, Advocates, for petitioner in
                           W.P.(C) 10307/2016 and for Respondent No.1 in
                           W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016.
                                   Sh. Arvind Datar, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Kamal
                                   Deep Dayal, Sh. Ankur Saigal and Sh. Shayan,
                                   Advocates, for JAL.
                                   Sh. G.C. Shrivastava, Sr. Standing Counsel and Sh.
                                   Rahul Chaudhary, Sr. Standing Counsel, for
                                   Income Tax Department.
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                  Page 1
            CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
           JAIPRAKASH ASSOCIATES LTD.                   ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                   ..... Respondent
                           Through : Sh. S. Ganesh, Sr. Advocate with Ms.
                           Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Sh. Sachit
                           Jolly, Sh. Gautam Swarup, Sh. Siddhartha Singh
                           and Sh. Amaya Pant, Advocates, for petitioner in
                           W.P.(C) 10307/2016 and for Respondent No.1 in
                           W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016.
                                   Sh. Arvind Datar, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Kamal
                                   Deep Dayal, Sh. Ankur Saigal and Sh. Shayan,
                                   Advocates, for JAL.
                                   Sh. G.C. Shrivastava, Sr. Standing Counsel and Sh.
                                   Rahul Chaudhary, Sr. Standing Counsel, for
                                   Income Tax Department.
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                  Page 1
            CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
    MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
    %
    1.     This judgment would dispose of three writ petitions: WP 9509/2016 (preferred by
    the Commissioner of Income Tax, hereafter "the revenue's petition"; WP 10145/2016
    (preferred by Jaypee Sports International Limited, hereafter called "Jaypee") and WP
    10307/2016 (Formula One World Championship Limited (FOWC) hereafter called "the
    F1 Championship Ltd" petition). Both Jaypee and FOWC had filed applications before
    the Authority for Advance Ruling ("AAR"). The AAR held one question in favour of the
    revenue and the other question in favour of the said two companies. All three parties
    have, thus approached this court, under Article 226 of the Constitution.
    2.     A brief background of the facts is necessary. FOWC is a UK tax resident company
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
    +      W.P.(C) 10145/2016, C.M. APPL.40169/2016
           JAIPRAKASH ASSOCIATES LTD.                   ..... Petitioner
                           versus
           COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX                   ..... Respondent
                           Through : Sh. S. Ganesh, Sr. Advocate with Ms.
                           Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Sh. Sachit
                           Jolly, Sh. Gautam Swarup, Sh. Siddhartha Singh
                           and Sh. Amaya Pant, Advocates, for petitioner in
                           W.P.(C) 10307/2016 and for Respondent No.1 in
                           W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016.
                                   Sh. Arvind Datar, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Kamal
                                   Deep Dayal, Sh. Ankur Saigal and Sh. Shayan,
                                   Advocates, for JAL.
                                   Sh. G.C. Shrivastava, Sr. Standing Counsel and Sh.
                                   Rahul Chaudhary, Sr. Standing Counsel, for
                                   Income Tax Department.
    W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016                  Page 1
            CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
    MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
    %
    1.     This judgment would dispose of three writ petitions: WP 9509/2016 (preferred by
    the Commissioner of Income Tax, hereafter "the revenue's petition"; WP 10145/2016
    (preferred by Jaypee Sports International Limited, hereafter called "Jaypee") and WP
    10307/2016 (Formula One World Championship Limited (FOWC) hereafter called "the
    F1 Championship Ltd" petition). Both Jaypee and FOWC had filed applications before
    the Authority for Advance Ruling ("AAR"). The AAR held one question in favour of the
    revenue and the other question in favour of the said two companies. All three parties
    have, thus approached this court, under Article 226 of the Constitution.
    2.     A brief background of the facts is necessary. FOWC is a UK tax resident company
in India through a PE, at the circuit, it is held that payments made to FOWC,
under the RPC were business income and accordingly chargeable to tax,
according to the rates applicable in India at that time.
77\. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that on the question of existence
of FOWC‟s PE, in India, the answer is in the affirmative; a PE, within the
meaning of Article 5 (1) of the DTAA existed, through which it conducted
business and derived income, that is taxable in India. The findings of AAR are
hereby set aside on this aspect. As regards dependent PE, the answer is in the
affirmative; no dependent PE existed, through which FOWC carried on its
business. As to royalty, in view of the findings rendered, the AAR‟s decision
is reversed and set aside. On the issue of Section 195, Jaypee is bound to
make appropriate deductions from the amounts payable to FOWC under provisions
of the Income Tax Act.
78\. The writ petitions of Jaypee and FOWC are partly allowed on the question
of royalty and Section 195; the writ petition of the revenue is allowed partly
on the issue of W.P.(C) 10307/2016, W.P.(C) 9509/2016 & W.P.(C) 10145/2016
