Supreme Court of India
Anuradha Bhasin vs Union Of India on 10 January, 2020
Author: N.V. Ramana
Bench: N.V. Ramana, V. Ramasubramanian
                                                                             REPORTABLE
                                          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                            CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                                    WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 1031   OF   2019
              ANURADHA BHASIN                                             …PETITIONER
                                                      VERSUS
              UNION            OF INDIA AND   ORS.                        …RESPONDENT(S)
                                                       And
                                    WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 1164   OF   2019
              GHULAM NABI AZAD                                             …PETITIONER
                                                      VERSUS
              UNION            OF INDIA AND   ANR.                        …RESPONDENT(S)
                                                     JUDGMENT
    TABLE                 OF   CONTENTS
     Introduction                                                                 A
     Contentions                                                                  B
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
     Contentions                                                                  B
     Issues                                                                       C
     Production of Orders                                                         D
     Fundamental Rights under Part III and restrictions                           E
     thereof
    Signature Not Verified
    Digitally signed by
     Internet Shutdown                                                            F
    GEETA AHUJA
    Date: 2020.01.10
    12:44:27 IST
    Reason:
     Restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.                                      G
                                                                                         1
     Freedom of the Press                                        H
     Conclusion                                                  I
    N. V. RAMANA, J.
        A. INTRODUCTION
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the
epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of
Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had
everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to
Heaven, we were all going direct the other way­ in short, the period was so
far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on
its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of
comparison only.” ­Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities  2
1\. Although cherished in our heart as a “Paradise on Earth”, the history of
this beautiful land is etched with violence and militancy. While the mountains
of Himalayas spell tranquillity, yet blood is shed every day. In this land of
inherent contradictions, these petitions add to the list, wherein two sides
have shown two different pictures which are diametrically opposite and
factually irreconcilable. In this context, this Court’s job is compounded by
the magnitude of the task before it. It goes without saying that this Court
will not delve into the political propriety of the decision taken herein,
which is best left for democratic forces to act on. Our limited scope is to
strike a balance between the liberty and security concerns so that the right
to life is secured and enjoyed in the best possible manner.
2\. Liberty and security have always been at loggerheads. The question before
us, simply put, is what do we need more, liberty or security? Although the
choice is seemingly challenging, we need to clear ourselves from the platitude
of rhetoric and provide a meaningful answer so that every citizen has adequate
security and sufficient liberty. The pendulum of preference should not swing
in either extreme direction so that one preference  3 compromises the other.
It is not our forte to answer whether it is better to be free than secure or
be secure rather than free. However, we are here only to ensure that citizens
are provided all the rights and liberty to the highest extent in a given
situation while ensuring security at the same time.
3\. The genesis of the issue starts with the Security Advisory issued by the
Civil Secretariat, Home Department, Government of Jammu and Kashmir, advising
the tourists and the Amarnath Yatris to curtail their stay and make
arrangements for their return in the interest of safety and security.
Subsequently, educational institutions and offices were ordered to remain shut
until further orders. On 04.08.2019, mobile phone networks, internet services,
landline connectivity were all discontinued in the valley, with restrictions
on movement also being imposed in some areas.
4\. On 05.08.2019, Constitutional Order 272 was issued by the President,
applying all provisions of the Constitution of India to the State of Jammu and
Kashmir, and modifying Article 367 (Interpretation) in its application to the
State of Jammu and Kashmir. In light of the prevailing circumstances, on the
same day, the District Magistrates, apprehending breach of peace and  4
tranquillity, imposed restrictions on movement and public gatherings by virtue
of powers vested under Section 144, Cr.P.C. Due to the aforesaid restrictions,
the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019 claims that the movement of
journalists was severely restricted and on 05.08.2019, the Kashmir Times
Srinagar Edition could not be distributed. The Petitioner has submitted that
since 06.08.2019, she has been unable to publish the Srinagar edition of
Kashmir Times pursuant to the aforesaid restrictions.
5\. Aggrieved by the same, the Petitioners (Ms. Anuradha Bhasin and Mr. Ghulam
Nabi Azad) approached this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking
issuance of an appropriate writ for setting aside or quashing any and all
order(s), notification(s), direction(s) and/or circular(s) issued by the
Respondents under which any/all modes of communication including internet,
mobile and fixed line telecommunication services have been shut down or
suspended or in any way made inaccessible or unavailable in any locality.
Further, the Petitioners sought the issuance of an appropriate writ or
direction directing Respondents to immediately restore all modes of
communication including mobile, internet and landline services throughout  5
Jammu and Kashmir in order to provide an enabling environment for the media to
practice its profession. Moreover, the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019
also pleaded to pass any appropriate writ or direction directing the
Respondents to take necessary steps for ensuring free and safe movement of
reporters and journalists and other media personnel. Lastly, she also pleaded
for the framing of guidelines ensuring that the rights and means of media
personnel to report and publish news is not unreasonably curtailed.
6\. Moreover, Mr. Ghulam Nabi Azad (Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1164 of 2019),
alleges that he was stopped from travelling to his constituency in Jammu and
Kashmir. In this context, he alleges that due to the aforesaid restrictions,
he is not able to communicate with the people of his constituency.
7\. When W.P. (C) No. 1164 of 2019 (by Mr. Ghulam Nabi Azad), was listed
before a Co­ordinate Bench of this Court on 16.09.2019, the following order
was passed:
> “Issue notice.
> We permit the petitioner to go to Srinagar and visit the following
> districts, subject to restrictions, if any:­
> (i) Srinagar, (ii) Anantnag, (iii) Baramulla and
> (iv) Jammu.
6
The petitioner has undertaken before the Court on his own volition that he
will not indulge in any political rally or political activity during his
visit. The visit will solely be concerned with making an assessment of the
impact of the present situation on the life of the daily wage earners, if any.
So far as prayers (2) and (3) of the writ petition are concerned, the State as
well as, the Union of India will respond within two weeks hence.”
8\. When W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019, was listed on 16.08.2019, the matter was
ordered to be tagged along with W.P. (C) No. 1013 of 2019 (five­Judge Bench)
and was later de­tagged. On 16.09.2019, a Co­ordinate Bench of this Court
ordered the following:
> “The State of Jammu & Kashmir, keeping in mind the national interest and
> internal security, shall make all endeavours to ensure that normal life is
> restored in Kashmir; people have access to healthcare facilities and
> schools, colleges and other educational institutions and public transport
> functions and operates normally. All forms of communication, subject to
> overriding consideration of national security, shall be normalized, if
> required on a selective basis, particularly for healthcare facilities.” When
> the said writ petition was listed before this Bench on 01.10.2019, in light
> of expediency, this Bench directed that no further intervention applications
> shall be entertained. However, liberty was granted to file additional
> documents in support of applications for intervention. When the matter came
> up for  7 hearing on the next date on 16.10.2019, the following order was
> passed:
> “When these matters came up for hearing today, learned Solicitor General
> appearing for the Union of India made a submission that after filing the
> counter affidavit in these matters, certain further developments have taken
> place and some of the restrictions imposed have been relaxed, particularly
> with reference to mobile connectivity as well as the landlines services etc.
> and, therefore, he wants to file another additional affidavit indicating the
> steps taken by the Government about relaxation of some restrictions. He also
> made a request to accommodate him for a week only. During the course of
> hearing, we are informed by the learned Senior counsel appearing for the
> petitioners that the orders which are issued by the authorities relating to
> the restrictions imposed have not been provided to them so far.
> When we asked the learned Solicitor General about the non­ supply of orders
> issued by the authorities relating to the restrictions imposed, particularly
> with respect to the cell phone services as well as Section 144 proceedings,
> he claims privilege over those orders. He, however, states that those orders
> can be produced before this Court.
> However, if for any reason, learned Solicitor General does not want to give
> a copy of those orders to the petitioners, we request him to file an
> affidavit indicating the reasons for claiming such privilege.”  8 On
> 24.10.2019, after the aforesaid orders were placed on record and pleadings
> were complete, the matter was listed for final disposal on 05.11.2019.
> Taking into account the concerns expressed by the parties, we extensively
> heard the counsel for both sides, as well as all the Intervenors on
> 05.11.2019, 06.11.2019, 07.11.2019, 14.11.2019, 19.11.2019, 21.11.2019,
> 26.11.2019 and 27.11.2019, and considered all the submissions made and
> documents placed before us.
B. CONTENTIONS Ms. Vrinda Grover, Counsel for the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No.
1031 of 2019  It was contended that the petitioner, being executive editor of
one of the major newspapers, was not able to function post 05.08.2019, due to
various restrictions imposed on the press.
 Print media came to a grinding halt due to non­availability of internet
services, which in her view, is absolutely essential for the modern press.
 Curtailment of the internet, is a restriction on the right to free speech,
should be tested on the basis of reasonableness and proportionality.
 The procedure that is to be followed for restricting Internet services is
provided under the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency
or Public Service) Rules, 2017 [hereinafter “Suspension Rules”], which were
notified under the Telegraph Act. The Suspension Rules  9 indicate that the
restriction imposed was contemplated to be of a temporary nature.
 The orders passed under the Suspension Rules placed on record by the State
of Jammu and Kashmir, regarding the restrictions pertaining to the Internet
and phones (either mobile or telephone were ex facie perverse and suffered
from non­application of mind.
 Learned counsel submitted that the orders were not in compliance with the
procedure prescribed under the Suspension Rules. Further, the orders did not
provide any reasoning as to the necessity of the restrictions, as is required
under the Suspension Rules.
 Lastly, the learned counsel contended that the orders are based on an
apprehension of likelihood that there would be danger to a law and order
situation. Public order is not the same as law and order, and the situation at
the time when the orders were passed did not warrant the passing of the orders
resulting in restrictions.
Mr. Kapil Sibal, Senior Counsel for the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1164 of
2019  Learned senior counsel submitted that the orders of the authorities had
to be produced before the Court, and cannot be the subject of privilege, as
claimed by the State.  It was submitted that the conduct of the State, in
producing documents and status reports during argumentation, was improper, as
it did not allow the Petitioners with sufficient opportunity to rebut the
same.
 Learned senior counsel submitted that the Union of India can declare an
emergency only in certain limited situations. Neither any ‘internal
disturbance’ nor any ‘external aggression’ has been shown in the present case
for the imposition of restrictions which are akin to the declaration of
Emergency.
 With respect to the orders restricting movement passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C., the learned senior counsel contended that such an order is made to
deal with a ‘law  10 and order’ situation, but the orders do not indicate any
existing law and order issue, or apprehension thereof.  Learned senior
counsel pointed out that the order of the Magistrate under Section 144,
Cr.P.C. cannot be passed to the public generally, and must be specifically
against the people or the group which is apprehended to disturb the peace. It
is necessary for the State to identify the persons causing the problem, and an
entire State cannot be brought to a halt. Moreover, he has contended that
there was no application of mind before passing those orders.  While
submitting that it could be assumed that there was some material available for
the purpose of passing the orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C., the question
which then arises is how the State balances the rights of individuals.  The
learned senior counsel, with respect to the communications’ restrictions,
submitted that the State had not indicated as to the necessity to block
landline services. He further submitted that the communications/Internet
restrictions which were imposed under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885
[hereinafter “Telegraph Act”] needs to follow the provisions of Section 5 of
the Telegraph Act, in line with Article 19 of the Constitution. While there
can be some restrictions, there can be no blanket orders, as it would amount
to a complete ban. Instead, a distinction should be drawn while imposing
restrictions on social media/mass communication and the general internet. The
least restrictive option must be put in place, and the State should have taken
preventive or protective measures. Ultimately, the State needs to balance the
safety of the people with their lawful exercise of their fundamental rights. 
On internet restrictions, the learned senior counsel submitted that such
restrictions not only impact the right to free speech of individuals but also
impinges on their right to trade. Therefore, a less restrictive measure, such
as restricting only social media websites like Facebook and Whatsapp, should
and could have been passed, as has been done in India while prohibiting human
trafficking and child pornography websites. The learned senior counsel pointed
to orders passed in Bihar, and in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017, restricting only
social media websites, and submitted that the same could have been followed in
this case as well.  11  Indicating that the State can impose restrictions,
the learned senior counsel focussed on the question of the “least restrictive
measure” that can be passed. The learned senior counsel submitted that while
imposing restrictions, the rights of individuals need to be balanced against
the duty of the State to ensure security. The State must ensure that measures
are in place that allows people to continue with their life, such as public
transportation for work and schools, to facilitate business, etc. Mr. Huzefa
Ahmadi, Senior Counsel for Intervenor in I.A. No. 139141 of 2019 in W.P. (C)
No. 1031 of 2019  The learned senior counsel emphasized on the term
“reasonable”, as used in Article 19(2) of the Constitution, and submitted that
the restrictions on the freedom of speech should be reasonable as mandated
under Article 19 of the Constitution. These restrictions need to be tested on
the anvil of the test of proportionality.
 Learned senior counsel submitted that Section 144, Cr.P.C. orders should be
based on some objective material and not merely on conjectures.
Mr. Dushyant Dave, Senior Counsel for the Intervenor in I.A. No. 139555 in
W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019  Learned senior counsel attempted to highlight that
the issue of balancing the measures necessary for ensuring national security
or curbing terrorism, with the rights of the citizens, is an endeavour that is
not unique, and has been undertaken by Courts in various jurisdictions.
Learned senior counsel relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court of Israel
concerning the Legality of the General Security Service's Interrogation
Methods in Public Committee Against Torture in Israel v. Israel, 38 I.L.M.
1471 (1999) relating to the question of whether torture during interrogation
of an alleged terrorist was permissible. In that  12 case, the Israeli Supreme
Court held that such acts were unconstitutional, and could not be justified in
light of the freedoms and liberties afforded to the citizens of Israel. 
Learned senior counsel drew parallels between the situation faced by the
Israeli Supreme Court in the abovementioned case, and that before this Court,
wherein, according to the learned senior counsel, the State is attempting to
justify the restrictions due to the circumstances prevailing in the State of
Jammu and Kashmir. The learned senior counsel submitted that such a
justification merits rejection as it would amount to granting too much power
to the State to impose broad restrictions on fundamental rights in varied
situations. It would amount to individual liberty being subsumed by social
control.
 The learned senior counsel emphasized on the seriousness of the present
matter, stating that such restrictions on the fundamental rights is the reason
for the placement of Article 32 of the Constitution in Part III, as a
fundamental right which allows for the enforcement of the other fundamental
rights. He referred to the Constituent Assembly debates to highlight the
import of Article 32, as contemplated by the Members of the Constituent
Assembly.
 The learned senior counsel also placed before this Court the Government of
India National Telecom Policy, 2012, and submitted that the wide restrictions
imposed by the State are in contravention of the aforementioned policy. He
submitted that the freedom of speech and expression is meant to allow people
to discuss the burning topic of the day, including the abrogation of Article
370 of the Constitution.
 Lastly, the learned senior counsel emphasized that the restrictions that
were imposed are meant to be temporary in nature, have lasted for more than
100 days, which fact should be taken into account by this Court while deciding
the matter.
Ms. Meenakshi Arora, Senior Counsel for the Intervenor in I.A. No. 140276 in
W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019  13  Learned senior counsel submitted that Articles
19 and 21 of the Constitution require that any action of the State must
demonstrate five essential features: (a) backing of a ‘law’, (b) legitimacy of
purpose, (c) rational connection of the act and object, (d) necessity of the
action, and (e) when the above four are established, then the test of
proportionality.  At the outset, learned senior counsel submitted that it is
necessary to test the validity of the orders by reference to the facts and
circumstances prevailing on the date of passing of the said orders, i.e.,
04.08.2019.  Learned senior counsel submitted that the orders that have not
been published cannot be accorded the force of law. The necessity of
publication of law is a part of the rule of natural justice. Not only must the
orders be published, it is also necessary that these orders be made available
and accessible to the public. The State cannot refuse to produce the orders
before the Court or claim any privilege.  The learned senior counsel further
submitted that, notwithstanding the expediency of the situation, the necessity
of a measure must be shown by the State. The people have a right to speak
their view, whether good, bad or ugly, and the State must prove that it was
necessary to restrict the same.
 On the point of proportionality, the learned senior counsel submitted that
the test of proportionality was upheld by this Court in the case of K. S.
Puttaswamy v. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC 1 (hereinafter “K. S. Puttaswamy
(Privacy­ 9J.)”) and therefore the proportionality of a measure must be
determined while looking at the restrictions being imposed by the State on the
fundamental rights of citizens. The learned senior counsel pointed out that it
is not just the legal and physical restrictions that must be looked at, but
also the fear that these sorts of restrictions engender in the minds of the
populace, while looking at the proportionality of measures.
Mr. Sanjay Hegde, Senior Counsel for the Petitioner in W.P. (Crl.) No. 225 of
2019  14  Although this Writ Petition was withdrawn during arguments, the
learned senior counsel wished to make certain submissions regarding the issue
at hand. The learned senior counsel submitted on behalf of the Petitioner that
although he and his family were law abiding citizens, yet they are suffering
the effects of the restrictions. Citing the House of Lords judgment of
Liversidge v. Anderson, (1941) 3 All ER 338 the learned senior counsel
submitted that it was the dissent by Lord Atkin, upholding the fundamental
rights of the citizens of the United Kingdom, which is now the law of the
land.
Mr. K. K. Venugopal, Learned Attorney General for the Union of India  The
learned Attorney General supported the submissions made by the Solicitor
General. He submitted that the background of terrorism in the State of Jammu
and Kashmir needs to be taken into account. Relying on National Investigation
Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali, 2019 (5) SCC 1, the learned Attorney
General submitted that this Court while deciding the aforementioned case, has
taken cognizance of the problem of terrorism in the State before.
 According to the learned Attorney General, keeping in mind the facts
regarding cross border terrorism and internal militancy, it would have been
foolish to have not taken any preventive measures in the circumstances. The
necessity of the orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C. are apparent from the
background facts and circumstances, when there can be huge violence if the
Government did not take these kinds of measures. In fact, similar steps were
taken earlier by the Government in 2016 when a terrorist was killed in the
State.
Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General for the State of Jammu and Kashmir  15 
The learned Solicitor General submitted that the first and foremost duty of
the State is to ensure security and protect the citizens­ their lives, limbs
and property. He further submitted that the facts relied on by the Petitioners
and the Intervenors were incorrect, as they did not have the correct
information about the factual position on the ground in the State of Jammu and
Kashmir.
 The learned Solicitor General submitted that the historical background of
the State of Jammu and Kashmir is necessary to be looked at to understand the
measures taken by the State. The State has been a victim of both physical and
digital cross border terrorism.
 The abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on 05.08.2019 was a
historic step, which resulted not in the taking away of the rights of the
citizens of Jammu and Kashmir, but conferment of rights upon them which they
never had. Now, with the abrogation, 106 people friendly laws have become
applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
 The learned Solicitor General submitted that the Petitioners were incorrect
to state that public movement was restricted. In fact, individual movement had
never been restricted. Additionally, while schools were closed initially, they
have now been reopened. Depending on the facts, circumstances and requirements
of an area, restrictions were put in place which are now being relaxed
gradually.
 On the orders passed by the Magistrates under Section 144, Cr.P.C., in their
respective jurisdictional areas, the learned Solicitor General submitted that
they were best placed to know the situation on the ground, and then took their
respective decisions accordingly. Currently, there is nearly hundred percent
relaxation of restrictions. Restrictions were being relaxed on the basis of
the threat perception. Restrictions were never imposed in the Ladakh region.
This fact shows that there was application of mind while passing the orders by
the officers on the ground, and that there was no general clampdown, as is
being suggested by the Petitioners.
 Further, the learned Solicitor General pointed to various figures to
indicate that people were leading their ordinary lives in the State. He
submitted that all newspapers,  16 television and radio channels are
functioning, including from Srinagar, where the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No.
1031 of 2019 is situated. The learned Solicitor General further indicated that
the Government had taken certain measures to ensure that essential facilities
would be available to the populace.
 The learned Solicitor General submitted that orders passed under Section
144, Cr.P.C. can be preventive in nature, in order to prevent danger to public
safety. The Magistrate can pass the order even on the basis of personal
knowledge, and the same is supposed to be a speedy mechanism. The orders
passed must be considered keeping in mind the history and the background of
the State.
 Relying on Babulal Parate v. State of Bombay, AIR 1960 SC 51, and Madhu
Limaye v. Sub­Divisional Magistrate, Monghgyr, (1970) 3 SCC 746, the learned
Solicitor General submitted that the situation in the State of Jammu and
Kashmir was such that the orders could be justified in view of maintenance of
the “security of the State”. Regarding the Petitioners’ submission that the
restrictions could have been imposed on specific individuals, the learned
Solicitor General submitted that it was impossible to segregate, and control,
the troublemakers from the ordinary citizens.  The learned Solicitor General
submitted that there were enough facts in the knowledge of the Magistrate to
pass the orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C. There was sufficient speculation on
the ground to suggest that there might be a move to abrogate Article 370 of
the Constitution, and they were aware of the situation on the ground.
Provocative speeches and messages were being transmitted. This information is
all available in the public domain.  It was further submitted that the Court
does not sit in appeal of the decision to impose restrictions under Section
144, Cr.P.C. and has limited jurisdiction to interfere, particularly when
there are no allegations of mala fide made against the officers and when the
question involved is of national security. The level of restriction required
is best left to the officers who are on the ground with the requisite
information and knowledge, and the same is not to be replaced by the opinion
of the Courts.
17  With respect to the communications and internet shutdown, the learned
Solicitor General submitted that internet was never restricted in the Jammu
and Ladakh regions. Further, he submitted that social media, which allowed
people to send messages and communicate with a number of people at the same
time, could be used as a means to incite violence. The purpose of the limited
and restricted use of internet is to ensure that the situation on the ground
would not be aggravated by targeted messages from outside the country.
Further, the internet allows for the transmission of false news or fake
images, which are then used to spread violence. The dark web allows
individuals to purchase weapons and illegal substances easily.
 The learned Solicitor General submitted that the jurisprudence on free
speech relating to newspapers cannot be applied to the internet, as both the
media are different. While newspapers only allowed one­way communication, the
internet makes two­way communication by which spreading of messages are very
easy. The different context should be kept in mind by the Court while dealing
with the restrictions with respect to the two media.  While referring to
various photographs, tweets and messages of political leaders of Kashmir, he
stated that these statements are highly misleading, abrasive and detrimental
to the integrity and sovereignty of India.  Further, it is not possible to
ban only certain websites/parts of the Internet while allowing access to other
parts. Such a measure was earlier attempted in 2017, but it was not
successful.
 Lastly, the learned Solicitor General submitted that the orders passed under
the Suspension Rules were passed in compliance with the procedure in the
Suspension Rules, and are being reviewed strictly in terms of the same.
9\. Some of the intervenors have supported the submissions made by the learned
Attorney General and the Solicitor General, and indicated that the
restrictions were necessary and in compliance with the law. They have also
submitted that normalcy is  18 returning in the State of Jammu and Kashmir,
and that the present petitions are not maintainable.
C. ISSUES
10\. In line with aforesaid facts and arguments, the following questions of
law arise for our consideration: I. Whether the Government can claim exemption
from producing all the orders passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. and other
orders under the Suspension Rules? II. Whether the freedom of speech and
expression and freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any
occupation, trade or business over the Internet is a part of the fundamental
rights under Part III of the Constitution? III. Whether the Government’s
action of prohibiting internet access is valid?
IV. Whether the imposition of restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C. were
valid?
V. Whether the freedom of press of the Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019
was violated due to the restrictions? D. PRODUCTION OF ORDERS
11\. The present petitions, their context and conduct of the parties, have
placed this Court in a peculiar situation. We have been  19 asked to go into
the question of the validity of orders, restricting movement and
communication, passed in the State of Jammu and Kashmir by various
authorities, however, the orders are not before us. The Petitioners and
Intervenors claim that the orders were not available, which is why they could
not place them on record.
12\. At the same time, while the non­availability of orders was not denied by
the Respondent­State, they did not produce the said orders. In fact, when this
Court by order dated 16.10.2019 asked them to produce the orders, the
Respondent­State placed on record only sample orders, citing difficulty in
producing the numerous orders which were being withdrawn and modified on a
day­to­day basis. The Respondent­State also claimed that the plea to produce
orders by the Petitioners was an expansion of the scope of the present
petitions.
13\. At the outset, a perusal of the prayers in the Writ Petitions before us
should be sufficient to reject the aforementioned contention of the
Respondent­State. In W.P. (C) No. 1164 of 2019 and I.A no. 157139 in I.A. no.
139555 of 2019 in W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019, a prayer has been made to issue a
writ of mandamus or any other writ directing Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 to
produce all  20 orders by which movement of all persons has been restricted
since 04.08.2019. Further, production of all orders by way of which
communication has been blocked in State of Jammu and Kashmir has also been
sought.
14\. On the obligation of the State to disclose information, particularly in a
writ proceeding, this Court in Ram Jethmalani v. Union of India, (2011) 8 SCC
1, observed as follows:
> “75. In order that the right guaranteed by clause (1) of Article 32 be
> meaningful, and particularly because such petitions seek the protection of
> fundamental rights, it is imperative that in such proceedings the
> petitioners are not denied the information necessary for them to properly
> articulate the case and be heard, especially where such information is in
> the possession of the State.” (emphasis supplied)
15\. We may note that there are two separate types of reasoning that mandates
us to order production of the orders passed by the authorities in this case.
First, Article 19 of the Constitution has been interpreted to mandate right to
information as an important facet of the right to freedom of speech and
expression. A  21 democracy, which is sworn to transparency and
accountability, necessarily mandates the production of orders as it is the
right of an individual to know. Moreover, fundamental rights itself connote a
qualitative requirement wherein the State has to act in a responsible manner
to uphold Part III of the Constitution and not to take away these rights in an
implied fashion or in casual and cavalier manner.
16\. Second, there is no dispute that democracy entails free flow of
information. There is not only a normative expectation under the Constitution,
but also a requirement under natural law, that no law should be passed in a
clandestine manner. As Lon L. Fuller suggests in his celebrated article “there
can be no greater legal monstrosity than a secret statute”.1 In this regard,
Jeremy Bentham spoke about open justice as the “keenest spur to exertion”. In
the same context, James Madison stated “a popular government, without popular
information, or the means of acquiring it, is but a prologue to a farce or a
tragedy; or perhaps both. Knowledge will forever govern the ignorance and a
people 1Lon L. Fuller, Positivism and Fidelity to Law: A Reply to Professor
Hart, The Harvard Law Review, 71(4), 630, 651 [February, 1958].  22 who mean
to be their own Governors must arm themselves with the power which knowledge
gives”.
17\. As a general principle, on a challenge being made regarding the
curtailment of fundamental rights as a result of any order passed or action
taken by the State which is not easily available, the State should take a
proactive approach in ensuring that all the relevant orders are placed before
the Court, unless there is some specific ground of privilege or countervailing
public interest to be balanced, which must be specifically claimed by the
State on affidavit. In such cases, the Court could determine whether, in the
facts and circumstances, the privilege or public interest claim of the State
overrides the interests of the Petitioner. Such portion of the order can be
redacted or such material can be claimed as privileged, if the State justifies
such redaction on the grounds, as allowed under the law.
18\. In the present case, while the State initially claimed privilege, it
subsequently dropped the claim and produced certain sample orders, citing
difficulty in producing all the orders before this Court. In our opinion, this
is not a valid ground to refuse production of orders before the Court.
23 E. FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS UNDER PART III AND RESTRICTIONS THEREOF
19\. The petitioners have contended that the impugned restrictions have
affected the freedom of movement, freedom of speech and expression and right
to free trade and avocation. In this context, we have to first examine the
nature of the fundamental rights provided under the Constitution.
20\. The nature of fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution is
well settled. The fundamental rights are prescribed as a negative list, so
that “no person could be denied such right until the Constitution itself
prescribes such limitations”. The only exception to the aforesaid formulation
is Article 21A of the Constitution, which is a positive right that requires an
active effort by the concerned government to ensure that the right to
education is provided to all children up to the age of 16 years.
21\. The positive prescription of freedom of expression will result in
different consequences which our own Constitution has not entered into. Having
different social and economic backgrounds and existing on a different scale of
development, the human  24 rights enshrined therein have taken a different
role and purpose. The framers of the Indian Constitution were aware of the
situation of India, including the socio­economic costs of such proactive duty,
and thereafter took an informed decision to restrict the application of
fundamental rights in a negative manner. This crucial formulation is required
to be respected by this Court, which has to uphold the constitutional morality
behind utilization of such negative prescriptions.
22\. Now, we need to concern ourselves about the freedom of expression over
the medium of internet. There is no gainsaying that in today’s world the
internet stands as the most utilized and accessible medium for exchange of
information. The revolution within the cyberspace has been phenomenal in the
past decade, wherein the limitation of storage space and accessibility of
print medium has been remedied by the usage of internet.
23\. At this point it is important to note the argument of Mr. Vinton G. Cerf,
one of the ‘fathers of the internet’. He argued that while the internet is
very important, however, it cannot be elevated to the status of a human
right.2 Technology, in his view, is an enabler of rights and not a right in
and of itself. He distinguishes 2 Vinton G. Cerf, Internet Access is not a
Human Right, The New York Times (January 04, 2012).
25 between placing technology among the exalted category of other human
rights, such as the freedom of conscience, equality etc. With great respect to
his opinion, the prevalence and extent of internet proliferation cannot be
undermined in one’s life.
24\. Law and technology seldom mix like oil and water. There is a consistent
criticism that the development of technology is not met by equivalent movement
in the law. In this context, we need to note that the law should imbibe the
technological development and accordingly mould its rules so as to cater to
the needs of society. Non recognition of technology within the sphere of law
is only a disservice to the inevitable. In this light, the importance of
internet cannot be underestimated, as from morning to night we are
encapsulated within the cyberspace and our most basic activities are enabled
by the use of internet.
25\. We need to distinguish between the internet as a tool and the freedom of
expression through the internet. There is no dispute that freedom of speech
and expression includes the right to disseminate information to as wide a
section of the population as is possible. The wider range of circulation of
information or its greater impact cannot restrict the content of the right nor
can it  26 justify its denial. [refer to Secretary, Ministry of Information &
Broadcasting Government of India v. Cricket Association of Bengal, (1995) 2
SCC 161; Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC 1].
26\. The development of the jurisprudence in protecting the medium for
expression can be traced to the case of Indian Express v. Union of India,
(1985) 1 SCC 641, wherein this Court had declared that the freedom of print
medium is covered under the freedom of speech and expression. In Odyssey
Communications Pvt. Ltd. v. Lokvidayan Sanghatana, (1988) 3 SCC 410, it was
held that the right of citizens to exhibit films on Doordarshan, subject to
the terms and conditions to be imposed by the Doordarshan, is a part of the
fundamental right of freedom of expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a),
which can be curtailed only under circumstances set out under Article 19(2).
Further, this Court expanded this protection to the use of airwaves in the
case of Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India
(supra). In this context, we may note that this Court, in a catena of
judgments, has  27 recognized free speech as a fundamental right, and, as
technology has evolved, has recognized the freedom of speech and expression
over different media of expression. Expression through the internet has gained
contemporary relevance and is one of the major means of information diffusion.
Therefore, the freedom of speech and expression through the medium of internet
is an integral part of Article 19(1)(a) and accordingly, any restriction on
the same must be in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Constitution.
27\. In this context, we need to note that the internet is also a very
important tool for trade and commerce. The globalization of the Indian economy
and the rapid advances in information and technology have opened up vast
business avenues and transformed India as a global IT hub. There is no doubt
that there are certain trades which are completely dependent on the internet.
Such a right of trade through internet also fosters consumerism and
availability of choice. Therefore, the freedom of trade and commerce through
the medium of the internet is also constitutionally protected under Article
19(1)(g), subject to the restrictions provided under Article 19(6). 28
28\. None of the counsels have argued for declaring the right to access the
internet as a fundamental right and therefore we are not expressing any view
on the same. We are confining ourselves to declaring that the right to freedom
of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a), and the right to carry on any
trade or business under 19(1)(g), using the medium of internet is
constitutionally protected.
29\. Having explained the nature of fundamental rights and the utility of
internet under Article 19 of the Constitution, we need to concern ourselves
with respect to limitations provided under the Constitution on these rights.
With respect to the freedom of speech and expression, restrictions are
provided under Article 19(2) of the Constitution, which reads as under:
> “(2) Nothing in sub clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of
> any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as
> such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right
> conferred by the said sub­clause in the interests of the sovereignty and
> integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with
> foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt
> of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.”  29
30\. The right provided under Article 19(1) has certain exceptions, which
empowers the State to impose reasonable restrictions in appropriate cases. The
ingredients of Article 19(2) of the Constitution are that:
> a. The action must be sanctioned by law;
> b. The proposed action must be a reasonable restriction;
> c. Such restriction must be in furtherance of interests of the sovereignty
> and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with
> foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt
> of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.
31\. At the outset, the imposition of restriction is qualified by the term
‘reasonable’ and is limited to situations such as interests of the
sovereignty, integrity, security, friendly relations with the foreign States,
public order, decency or morality or contempt of Court, defamation or
incitement to an offence. Reasonability of a restriction is used in a
qualitative, quantitative and relative sense.
32\. It has been argued by the counsel for the Petitioners that the
restrictions under Article 19 of the Constitution cannot mean  30 complete
prohibition. In this context we may note that the aforesaid contention cannot
be sustained in light of a number of judgments of this Court wherein the
restriction has also been held to include complete prohibition in appropriate
cases. [Madhya Bharat Cotton Association Ltd. v. Union of India, AIR 1954 SC
634, Narendra Kumar v. Union of India, (1960) 2 SCR 375, State of Maharashtra
v. Himmatbhai Narbheram Rao, (1969) 2 SCR 392, Sushila Saw Mill v. State of
Orissa, (1995) 5 SCC 615, Pratap Pharma (Pvt.) Ltd. v. Union of India, (1997)
5 SCC 87 and Dharam Dutt v. Union of India, (2004) 1 SCC 712]
33\. The study of aforesaid case law points to three propositions which emerge
with respect to Article 19(2) of the Constitution. (i) Restriction on free
speech and expression may include cases of prohibition. (ii) There should not
be excessive burden on free speech even if a complete prohibition is imposed,
and the government has to justify imposition of such prohibition and explain
as to why lesser alternatives would be inadequate. (iii) Whether a restriction
amounts to a complete prohibition is a question of fact, which is required to
be determined by the Court  31 with regard to the facts and circumstances of
each case. [refer to State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat,
(2005) 8 SCC 534].
34\. The second prong of the test, wherein this Court is required to find
whether the imposed restriction/prohibition was least intrusive, brings us to
the question of balancing and proportionality. These concepts are not a new
formulation under the Constitution. In various parts of the Constitution, this
Court has taken a balancing approach to harmonize two competing rights. In the
case of Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India, (1980) 2 SCC 591 and Sanjeev
Coke Manufacturing Company v. M/s Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., (1983) 1 SCC 147,
this Court has already applied the balancing approach with respect to
fundamental rights and the directive principles of State Policy.
35\. Before, we delve into the nuances of ‘restriction’ as occurring under
Article 19(2) of the Constitution, we need to observe certain facts and
circumstances in this case. There is no doubt that Jammu and Kashmir has been
a hot bed of terrorist insurgencies for many years. In this light, we may note
the State’s submission that since 1990 to 2019 there have been  32 71,038
recorded incidents of terrorist violence, 14,038 civilians have died, 5292
security personnel were martyred, 22,536 terrorists were killed. The
geopolitical struggle cannot be played down or ignored. In line with the
aforesaid requirement, we may note that even the broadest guarantee of free
speech would not protect the entire gamut of speech. The question which begs
to be answered is whether there exists a clear and present danger in
restricting such expression.
36\. Modern terrorism heavily relies on the internet. Operations on the
internet do not require substantial expenditure and are not traceable easily.
The internet is being used to support fallacious proxy wars by raising money,
recruiting and spreading propaganda/ideologies. The prevalence of the internet
provides an easy inroad to young impressionable minds. In this regard, Gregory
S. McNeal,3 Professor of Law and Public Policy, Pepperdine University, states
in his article about propaganda and the use of internet in the following
manner:
> “Terrorist organisations have also begun to employ websites as a form of
> information warfare. Their websites can disperse inaccurate information that
> has far­reaching 3 Gregory S. McNeal, Cyber Embargo: Countering the Internet
> Jihad, 39 Case W. Res. J. Int’l L. 789 (2007).
33
consequences. Because internet postings are not regulated sources of news,
they can reflect any viewpoint, truthful or not. Thus, readers tend to
consider internet items to be fact, and stories can go unchecked for some
time.
Furthermore, streaming video and pictures of frightening scenes can support
and magnify these news stories. As a result, the internet is a powerful and
effective tool for spreading propaganda.”
37\. Susan W. Brenner,4 NCR Distinguished Professor of Law and Technology,
University of Dayton School of Law, also notes that the traditional approach
has not worked satisfactorily on terrorism due to the proliferation of the
internet. It is the contention of the respondents that the restriction on the
freedom of speech was imposed due to the fact that there were national
security issues over and above a law and order situation, wherein there were
problems of infiltration and support from the other side of the border to
instigate violence and terrorism. The learned Solicitor General pointed out
that the ‘war on terrorism’ requires imposition of such restriction so as to
nip the problem of terrorism in the bud. He submitted that in earlier times,
sovereignty and integrity of a State was challenged only on occurrence of war.
In some cases, there have been instances 4 Susan W. Brenner, Why the Law
Enforcement Model is a Problematic Strategy for Dealing with Terrorist
Activity Online, 99 Am. Soc’y Int’l. L. Proc. 108 (2005).  34 where the
integrity of the State has been challenged by secessionists. However, the
traditional conceptions of warfare have undergone an immense change and now it
has been replaced by a new term called ‘war on terror’. This war, unlike the
earlier ones, is not limited to territorial fights, rather, it transgresses
into other forms affecting normal life. The fight against terror cannot be
equated to a law and order situation as well. In this light, we observe that
this confusion of characterising terrorism as a war stricto sensu or a normal
law and order situation has plagued the submission of the respondent
Government and we need to carefully consider such submissions.
38\. Before analysing the restrictions imposed on the freedom of speech and
expression in the Indian context, we need to have a broad analysis of the
state of affairs in the United States of America (hereinafter ‘US’) where
freedom of expression under the First Amendment is treated to be very
significant with the US being perceived to be one of the liberal
constituencies with respect to free speech jurisprudence. However, we need to
refer to the context and state of law in the US, before we can understand such
an assertion.
35
39\. During the US civil war, a dramatic confrontation over free speech arose
with respect to the speech of Clement L. Vallandigham, who gave a speech
calling the civil war ‘wicked, cruel and unnecessary’. He urged the citizens
to use ballot boxes to hurl ‘President Lincoln’ from his throne. As a
reaction, Union soldiers arrested Mr. Vallandigham and he had to face a five­
member military commission which charged him with ‘declaring disloyal
sentiments and opinions with the object and purpose of weakening the power of
the government in its efforts to suppress an unlawful rebellion’. [Ex parte
Vallandigham, 28 F. Cas. 874 (1863)] The commission found Mr. Vallandigham
guilty and imposed imprisonment during the war. The aforesaid imprisonment was
met with demonstrations and publications calling such imprisonment as a crime
against the US Constitution. President Lincoln, having regard to the US
Constitution, commuted the imprisonment and converted the same to banishment.
He justified the aforesaid act by stating that banishment was more humane and
a less disagreeable means of securing least restrictive measures.
36
40\. During World War I, many within the US had strong feelings against the
war and the draft imposed by the administration of President Woodrow Wilson.
During this period, the US enacted the Espionage Act, 1917 which penalised any
person who wilfully caused or attempted to cause insubordination, disloyalty,
mutiny by refusal from duty or naval services. In any case, in Abraham v.
United States, 250 U.S. 616 (1919), Justice Holmes even in his dissent
observed as under:
> “I do not doubt for a moment that, by the same reasoning that would justify
> punishing persuasion to murder, the United States constitutionally may
> punish speech that produces or is intended to produce a clear and imminent
> danger that it will bring about forthwith certain substantive evils that the
> United States constitutionally may seek to prevent. The power undoubtedly is
> greater in time of war than in time of peace, because war opens dangers that
> do not exist at other times.” (emphasis supplied)
41\. The Second World War was also riddled with instances of tussle between
the First Amendment and national security issues. An instance of the same was
the conviction of William Dudley Pelley,  37 under the Espionage Act, 1917,
which the Supreme Court of United States refused to review.
42\. During the Cold War, the attention of the American Congress was on the
increase of communism. In 1954, Congress even enacted the Communist Control
Act, which stripped the Communist party of all rights, privileges and
immunities. During this time, Dennis v. United States, 341 US 494 (1951), is
an important precedent. Sections 2(a)(1), 2(a)(3) and 3 of the Alien
Registration Act, 1940 made it unlawful for any person to knowingly or
wilfully advocate with the intent of the overthrowing or destroying the
Government of the United States by force or violence, to organize or help to
organize any group which does so, or to conspire to do so. The Petitioner in
the aforementioned case challenged the aforesaid provision on the ground that
these provisions violated the First Amendment. The US Supreme Court held:
> “An analysis of the leading cases in this Court which have involved direct
> limitations on speech, however, will demonstrate that both the majority of
> the Court and the dissenters in particular cases have recognized that this
> is not an unlimited, unqualified right, but that the societal value of
> speech must, on occasion, be subordinated to other values and
> considerations.”  38
43\. During the Vietnam war, the US Supreme Court had to deal with the case of
Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 US 444 (1969), wherein the Court over­ruled Dennis
(supra) and held that the State cannot punish advocacy of unlawful conduct,
unless it is intended to incite and is likely to incite ‘imminent lawless
action’.
44\. There is no doubt that the events of September 2011 brought new
challenges to the US in the name of ‘war on terror’. In this context, Attorney
General John Ashcroft stated that “To those… who scare peace­loving people
with phantoms of lost liberty, my message is this: Your tactics only aid
terrorists, for they erode our national unity and diminish our resolve. They
give ammunition to America’s enemies…’.5 However, Bruce Ackerman, in his
article, 6 states that:
> “The “war on terrorism” has paid enormous political dividends .... but that
> does not make it a compelling legal concept. War is traditionally defined as
> a state of belligerency between sovereigns .... The selective adaptation of
> doctrines dealing with war predictably leads to sweeping incursions on
> fundamental liberties.” 5 Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing on
> Anti­Terrorism Policy, 106th Cong. (Dec. 6, 2001) (testimony of Attorney
> General John Ashcroft) 6 Ackerman, Bruce, "The Emergency Constitution",
> Faculty Scholarship Series, 113 (2004).
39
45\. From the aforesaid study of the precedents and facts, we may note that
the law in the US has undergone lot of changes concerning dissent during war.
The position that emerges is that any speech which incites imminent violence
does not enjoy constitutional protection.
46\. It goes without saying that the Government is entitled to restrict the
freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) if the need
be so, in compliance with the requirements under Article 19(2). It is in this
context, while the nation is facing such adversity, an abrasive statement with
imminent threat may be restricted, if the same impinges upon sovereignty and
integrity of India. The question is one of extent rather than the existence of
the power to restrict.
47\. The requirement of balancing various considerations brings us to the
principle of proportionality. In the case of K. S. Puttaswamy (Privacy­9J.)
(supra), this Court observed:
> “310…Proportionality is an essential facet of the guarantee against
> arbitrary State action because it ensures that the nature and quality of the
> encroachment on the right is not disproportionate to the purpose of the
> law...”  40
48\. Further, in the case of CPIO v Subhash Chandra Aggarwal, (2019) SCC
OnLine SC 1459, the meaning of proportionality was explained as:
> “225…It is also crucial for the standard of proportionality to be applied to
> ensure that neither right is restricted to a greater extent than necessary
> to fulfil the legitimate interest of the countervailing interest in
> question…”
49\. At the same time, we need to note that when it comes to balancing
national security with liberty, we need to be cautious. In the words of Lucia
Zedner7:
> “Typically, conflicting interests are said to be ‘balanced’ as if there were
> a self­evident weighting of or priority among them. Yet rarely are the
> particular interests spelt out, priorities made explicitly, or the process
> by which a weight is achieved made clear. Balancing is presented as a
> zero­sum game in which more of one necessarily means less of the other …
> Although beloved of constitutional lawyers and political theorists, the
> experience of criminal justice is that balancing is a politically dangerous
> metaphor unless careful regard is given to what is at stake.”
50\. The proportionality principle, can be easily summarized by Lord Diplock’s
aphorism ‘you must not use a steam hammer to crack a nut, if a nutcracker
would do?’ [refer to R v. Goldsmith, [1983] 1 7Lucia Zedner, Securing Liberty
in the Face of Terror: Reflections from Criminal Justice, (2005) 32 Journal of
Law and Society 510.
41 WLR 151, 155 (Diplock J)]. In other words, proportionality is all about
means and ends.
51\. The suitability of proportionality analysis under Part III, needs to be
observed herein. The nature of fundamental rights has been extensively
commented upon. One view is that the fundamental rights apply as ‘rules’,
wherein they apply in an ‘all­or­nothing fashion’. This view is furthered by
Ronald Dworkin, who argued in his theory that concept of a right implies its
ability to trump over a public good.8 Dworkin’s view necessarily means that
the rights themselves are the end, which cannot be derogated as they represent
the highest norm under the Constitution. This would imply that if the
legislature or executive act in a particular manner, in derogation of the
right, with an object of achieving public good, they shall be prohibited from
doing so if the aforesaid action requires restriction of a right. However,
while such an approach is often taken by American Courts, the same may not be
completely suitable in the Indian context, having regard to the structure of
Part III which comes with inbuilt restrictions.
8Ronald Dworkin, “Rights as Trumps” in Jeremy Waldron (ed.), Theories of
Rights (1984) 153 (hereinafter Dworkin, “Rights as is trumps”).  42
52\. However, there is an alternative view, held by Robert Alexy, wherein the
‘fundamental rights’ are viewed as ‘principles’, 9 wherein the rights are
portrayed in a normative manner. Rules are norms that are always either
fulfilled or not; whereas principles are norms which require that something be
realized to the greatest extent possible given the legal and factual
possibilities.10 This characterisation of principles has implications for how
to deal with conflicts between them: it means that where they conflict, one
principle has to be weighed against the other and a determination has to be
made as to which has greater weight in this context.11 Therefore, he argues
that nature of principles implies the principle of proportionality. 12
53\. The doctrine of proportionality is not foreign to the Indian
Constitution, considering the use of the word ‘reasonable’ under Article 19 of
the Constitution. In a catena of judgments, this Court has held “reasonable
restrictions” are indispensable for the realisation of freedoms enshrined
under Article 19, as they are what ensure that enjoyment of rights is not
arbitrary or excessive, so as to affect public interest. This Court, while
sitting 9R. Alexy, A Theory of Constitutional Rights (Oxford, Oxford
University Press, 2002). 10Ibid at page 47.
11Ibid, page 50.
12Ibid, page 66.
43 in a Constitution Bench in one of its earliest judgments in Chintaman Rao
v. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1951 SC 118 interpreted limitations on
personal liberty, and the balancing thereof, as follows:
> “7. The phrase “reasonable restriction” connotes that the limitation imposed
> on a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an
> excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public.
> The word “reasonable” implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is,
> the choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation which arbitrarily
> or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of
> reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom
> guaranteed in Article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by clause
> (6) of Article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality.” (emphasis
> supplied) This Court, in State of Madras v. V.G. Row, AIR 1952 SC 196, while
> laying down the test of reasonableness, held that:
> 15\. … It is important in this context to bear in mind that the test of
> reasonableness, wherever prescribed, should be applied to each individual
> statute impugned, and no abstract standard or general pattern, of
> reasonableness can be laid down as applicable to all cases.
> The nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, the underlying
> purpose of the  44 restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evil
> sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion of the imposition, the
> prevailing conditions at the time, should all enter into the judicial
> verdict….
(emphasis supplied) A Constitution Bench of this Court in Mohammed Faruk v.
State of Madhya Pradesh, (1969) 1 SCC 853 while determining rights under
Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, discussed the doctrine of
proportionality in the aforesaid terms:
> “10. … The Court must in considering the validity of the impugned law
> imposing a prohibition on the carrying on of a business or profession,
> attempt an evaluation of its direct and immediate impact upon the
> fundamental rights of the citizens affected thereby and the larger public
> interest sought to be ensured in the light of the object sought to be
> achieved, the necessity to restrict the citizen's freedom … the possibility
> of achieving the object by imposing a less drastic restraint … or that a
> less drastic restriction may ensure the object intended to be achieved.”
> (emphasis supplied) In the case of Om Kumar v. Union of India, (2001) 2 SCC
> 386 the principle of proportionality, in light of administrative orders, was
> explained as follows:
45
28\. By “proportionality”, we mean the question whether, while regulating
exercise of fundamental rights, the appropriate or least­restrictive choice of
measures has been made by the legislature or the administrator so as to
achieve the object of the legislation or the purpose of the administrative
order, as the case maybe.
Under the principle, the court will see that the legislature and the
administrative authority “maintain a proper balance between the adverse
effects which the legislation or the administrative order may have on the
rights, liberties or interests of persons keeping in mind the purpose which
they were intended to serve”. The legislature and the administrative authority
are, however, given an area of discretion or a range of choices but as to
whether the choice made infringes the rights excessively or not is for the
court. That is what is meant by proportionality.
(emphasis supplied) [See also State of Bihar v. Kamla Kant Misra, (1969) 3 SCC
337; Bishambhar Dayal Chandra Mohan v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1982) 1 SCC
39]
54\. Recently, this Court in Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State
of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 7 SCC 353 has held that no constitutional right can
be claimed to be absolute in a realm where rights are interconnected to each
other, and limiting  46 some rights in public interest might therefore be
justified. The Court held as follows:
> “62. It is now almost accepted that there are no absolute constitutional
> rights. [Though, debate on this vexed issue still continues and some
> constitutional experts claim that there are certain rights, albeit very few,
> which can still be treated as “absolute”. Examples given are:(a) Right to
> human dignity which is inviolable, (b) Right not to be subjected to torture
> or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Even in respect of such
> rights, there is a thinking that in larger public interest, the extent of
> their protection can be diminished. However, so far such attempts of the
> States have been thwarted by the judiciary.] … In fact, such a provision in
> Article 19 itself on the one hand guarantees some certain freedoms in clause
> (1) of Article 19 and at the same time empowers the State to impose
> reasonable restrictions on those freedoms in public interest. This notion
> accepts the modern constitutional theory that the constitutional rights are
> related. This relativity means that a constitutional licence to limit those
> rights is granted where such a limitation will be justified to protect
> public interest or the rights of others. This phenomenon—of both the right
> and its limitation in the Constitution— exemplifies the inherent tension
> between democracy’s two fundamental elements...” (emphasis supplied)  47
55\. In the aforesaid case, this Court was posed with a dilemma as to how to
treat competing rights. The Court attempted to resolve the conflict by holding
that rights and limitations must be interpreted harmoniously so as to
facilitate coexistence. This Court observed therein:
> “62… On the one hand is the right’s element, which constitutes a fundamental
> component of substantive democracy; on the other hand is the people element,
> limiting those very rights through their representatives. These two
> constitute a fundamental component of the notion of democracy, though this
> time in its formal aspect. How can this tension be resolved? The answer is
> that this tension is not resolved by eliminating the “losing” facet from the
> Constitution. Rather, the tension is resolved by way of a proper balancing
> of the competing principles. This is one of the expressions of the
> multi­faceted nature of democracy. Indeed, the inherent tension between
> democracy’s different facets is a “constructive tension”. It enables each
> facet to develop while harmoniously coexisting with the others.
The best way to achieve this peaceful coexistence is through balancing between
the competing interests. Such balancing enables each facet to develop
alongside the other facets, not in their place. This tension between the two
fundamental aspects—rights on the one hand and its limitation on the other
hand—is to be resolved by balancing the two so that they harmoniously coexist
with each other. This balancing is to be done keeping  48 in mind the relative
social values of each competitive aspects when considered in proper context.”
(emphasis supplied)
56\. The next conundrum faced by the Court was in achieving the requisite
balance, the solution for which was derived from the principle of
proportionality. The eminent constitutional jurist, Kai Möller states that the
proportionality principle is the doctrinal tool which guides Judges through
the process of resolving these conflicts.13 One of the theories of
proportionality widely relied upon by most theorists is the version developed
by the German Federal Constitutional Court. The aforesaid doctrine lays down a
four pronged test wherein, first, it has to be analysed as to whether the
measure restricting the rights serves a legitimate goal (also called as
legitimate goal test), then it has to be analysed whether the measure is a
suitable means of furthering this goal (the rational connection stage), next
it has to be assessed whether there existed an equally effective but lesser
restrictive alternative remedy (the necessity test) and at last, it should be
analysed if such a measure had a disproportionate impact on the right­holder
(balancing stage). One important 13Kai Möller, The Global Model of
Constitutional Rights (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2012).
49 feature of German test is the last stage of balancing, which determines the
outcome as most of the important issues are pushed to the balancing stage and
the same thereby dominates the legal analysis. Under this approach, any goal
which is legitimate will be accepted; as usually a lesser restrictive measure
might have the disadvantage of being less effective and even marginal
contribution to the goal will suffice the rational connection test.14
57\. The aforesaid test needs to be contrasted with its Canadian counterpart
also known as the Oakes test. According to the said doctrine, the object of
the measure must be compelling enough to warrant overriding of the
constitutionally guaranteed freedom; a rational nexus must exist between such
a measure and the object sought to be achieved; the means must be least
restrictive; and lastly, there must be proportionality between the effects of
such measure and the object sought to be achieved. This doctrine of
proportionality is elaborately propounded by Dickson, C.J., of the Supreme
Court of Canada in R. v. Oakes, (1986) 1 SCR 103 (Can) SC, in the following
words (at p. 138): 14Kai Möller, Constructing the Proportionality Test: An
Emerging Global Conversation, Reasoning Rights Comparative Judicial Engagement
(Hart Publishing, 2014).  50 “To establish that a limit is reasonable and
demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society, two central criteria
must be satisfied. First, the objective, which the measures, responsible for a
limit on a Charter right or freedom are designed to serve, must be “of
sufficient importance to warrant overriding a constitutionally protected right
or freedom” … Second … the party invoking Section 1 must show that the means
chosen are reasonable and demonstrably justified. This involves “a form of
proportionality test”… Although the nature of the proportionality test will
vary depending on the circumstances, in each case courts will be required to
balance the interests of society with those of individuals and groups. There
are, in my view, three important components of a proportionality test. First,
the measures adopted must be … rationally connected to the objective. Second,
the means … should impair “as little as possible” the right or freedom in
question … Third, there must be a proportionality between the effects of the
measures which are responsible for limiting the Charter right or freedom, and
the objective which has been identified as of “sufficient importance”... The
more severe the deleterious effects of a measure, the more important the
objective must be if the measure is to be reasonable and demonstrably
justified in a free and democratic society.” (emphasis supplied)
58\. As can be seen, there exists substantial difference in both approaches,
as the Oakes test, instead of requiring “any”  51 legitimate goal, demands the
same to be compelling enough to warrant the limitation of constitutional
rights. Additionally, while the German necessity test calls for a lesser
restrictive measure which is equivalently effective, the need for
effectiveness has been done away with in the Oakes test wherein the
requirement of least infringing measure has been stipulated.
59\. It is also imperative for us to place reliance on Aharon Barak’s seminal
book15 on proportionality upon which Dr A.K. Sikri, J. placed reliance while
expounding the doctrine of proportionality in Modern Dental College case
(supra) as follows:
> “60. … a limitation of a constitutional right will be constitutionally
> permissible if:
> (i) it is designated for a proper purpose;
> (ii) the measures undertaken to effectuate such a limitation are rationally
> connected to the fulfilment of that purpose;
> (iii) the measures undertaken are necessary in that there are no alternative
> measures that may similarly achieve that same purpose with a lesser degree
> of limitation; and finally
> (iv) there needs to be a proper relation (“proportionality stricto sensu” or
> “balancing”) between the importance of achieving the proper purpose and the
> social importance of preventing the limitation on the constitutional right.”
> (emphasis supplied) 15Aharon Barak, Proportionality: Constitutional Rights
> and Their Limitation (Cambridge University Press, 2012)  52
60\. In Modern Dental College case (supra), this Court also went on to analyse
that the principle of proportionality is inherently embedded in Indian
Constitution under the realm of the doctrine of reasonable restrictions and
that the same can be traced under Article 19. The relevant extracts are placed
below:
> “65. We may unhesitatingly remark that this doctrine of proportionality,
> explained hereinabove in brief, is enshrined in Article 19 itself when we
> read clause (1) along with clause (6) thereof. While defining as to what
> constitutes a reasonable restriction, this Court in a plethora of judgments
> has held that the expression “reasonable restriction” seeks to strike a
> balance between the freedom guaranteed by any of the sub­clauses of clause
> (1) of Article 19 and the social control permitted by any of the clauses (2)
> to (6). It is held that the expression “reasonable” connotes that the
> limitation imposed on a person in the enjoyment of the right should not be
> arbitrary or of an excessive nature beyond what is required in the interests
> of public. Further, in order to be reasonable, the restriction must have a
> reasonable relation to the object which the legislation seeks to achieve,
> and must not go in excess of that object (see P.P. Enterprises v. Union of
> India, (1982) 2 SCC 33). At the same time, reasonableness of a restriction
> has to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of the
> interests of the general public and not from the point of view of the
> persons upon whom the  53 restrictions are imposed or upon abstract
> considerations (see Mohd. Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC
> 731).” (emphasis supplied)
61\. Thereafter, a comprehensive doctrine of proportionality in line with the
German approach was propounded by this Court in the Modern Dental College case
(supra) wherein the Court held that:
> “63. In this direction, the next question that arises is as to what criteria
> is to be adopted for a proper balance between the two facets viz. the rights
> and limitations imposed upon it by a statute. Here comes the concept of
> “proportionality”, which is a proper criterion. To put it pithily, when a
> law limits a constitutional right, such a limitation is constitutional if it
> is proportional. The law imposing restrictions will be treated as
> proportional if it is meant to achieve a proper purpose, and if the measures
> taken to achieve such a purpose are rationally connected to the purpose, and
> such measures are necessary...
> 64\. The exercise which, therefore, is to be taken is to find out as to
> whether the limitation of constitutional rights is for a purpose that is
> reasonable and necessary in a democratic society and such an exercise
> involves the weighing up of competitive values, and ultimately an assessment
> based on proportionality i.e. balancing of different interests.” (emphasis
> supplied)  54
62\. While some scholars such as Robert Alexy 16 call for a strong
interpretation of the necessity stage as it has direct impact upon the
realisation and optimisation of constitutional rights while others such as
David Bilchitz 17 found significant problems with this approach.
63\. First, Bilchitz focuses on the issues arising out of both the German test
and the Oakes test, wherein the former treats all policies to be necessary by
justifying that the available alternatives may not be equally effective, while
the latter applies the “minimal impairment test” narrowing the
constitutionally permissible policies and places a strong burden on the
Government to justify its policies. Therefore, Bilchitz argues that if the
necessity stage is interpreted strictly, legislations and policies no matter
how well intended will fail to pass the proportionality inquiry if any other
slightly less drastic measure exists. Bilchitz, therefore, indicates that
Alexy’s conclusion may be too quick.
16Robert Alexy, A Theory of Constitutional Rights (Oxford, Oxford University
Press, 2002)
47\. 17David Bilchitz, Necessity and Proportionality: Towards A Balanced
Approach? in L. Lazarus, C. McCrudden and N. Bowles (eds.), Reasoning Rights,
41 (2014).  55
64\. Moreover, this also leads to the issue regarding the doctrine of
separation of power, as Courts would often substitute the views of the
legislature in deciding what is the “least restrictive measure”. Taking the
aforesaid issues into consideration, Bilchitz proposed a moderate
interpretation of the necessity test wherein Courts may no longer be required
to assess policies and measures against impractical and unreasonable
standards. He states that “[n]ecessity involves a process of reasoning
designed to ensure that only measures with a strong relationship to the
objective they seek to achieve can justify an invasion of fundamental rights.
That process thus requires courts to reason through the various stages of the
moderate interpretation of necessity.”18 He therefore recommends a four­step
inquiry which is listed below:19 (MN1) All feasible alternatives need to be
identified, with courts being explicit as to criteria of feasibility;
(MN2) The relationship between the government measure under consideration, the
alternatives identified in MN1 and the objective sought to be achieved must be
determined. An attempt must be made to retain only those alternatives to the
measure that realise the objective in a real and substantial manner; 18 Ibid,
page 61.
19Ibid, page 61.
56 (MN3) The differing impact of the measure and the alternatives (identified
in MN2) upon fundamental rights must be determined, with it being recognised
that this requires a recognition of approximate impact; and (MN4) Given the
findings in MN2 and MN3, an overall comparison (and balancing exercise) must
be undertaken between the measure and the alternatives. A judgement must be
made whether the government measure is the best of all feasible alternatives,
considering both the degree to which it realises the government objective and
the degree of impact upon fundamental rights (‘the comparative component’).
65\. Admittedly, fundamental rights may not be absolute, however, they require
strong protection, thereby mandating a sensible necessity test as the same
will prevent the fundamental right from becoming either absolute or to be
diminished. Bilchitz, describes the aforesaid test to be neither factual nor
mechanical, but rather normative and qualitative. He states that “[t]he key
purpose of the necessity enquiry is to offer an explicit consideration of the
relationship between means, objectives and rights… Failure to conduct the
necessity enquiry with diligence, however, means that a government measure can
escape close  57 scrutiny in relation to both the realisation of the objective
and its impact upon fundamental rights.”20
66\. Taking into consideration the aforesaid analysis, Dr. Sikri, J., in K.S.
Puttaswamy (Retired) v. Union of India, (2019) 1 SCC 1 (hereinafter “K.S.
Puttaswamy (Aadhaar 5J.)”) reassessed the test laid down in Modern Dental
College Case (supra) which was based on the German Test and modulated the same
as against the tests laid down by Bilchitz. Therein this Court held that:
> “157. In Modern Dental College & Research Centre [Modern Dental College &
> Research Centre v. State of M.P., (2016) 7 SCC 353], four sub­components of
> proportionality which need to be satisfied were taken note of. These are:
> (a) A measure restricting a right must have a legitimate goal (legitimate
> goal stage).
> (b) It must be a suitable means of furthering this goal (suitability or
> rational connection stage).
> (c) There must not be any less restrictive but equally effective alternative
> (necessity stage).
> (d) The measure must not have a disproportionate impact on the right­holder
> (balancing stage).
                     158.This     has   been    approved     in K.S.
                     Puttaswamy [K.S.    Puttaswamy v. Union      of
> India, (2017) 10 SCC 1] as well. Therefore, the aforesaid stages of
> proportionality can be looked into and discussed. Of course, while
> undertaking this exercise it has also to be 20Ibid, 62  58 seen that the
> legitimate goal must be of sufficient importance to warrant overriding a
> constitutionally protected right or freedom and also that such a right
> impairs freedom as little as possible. This Court, in its earlier judgments,
> applied German approach while applying proportionality test to the case at
> hand. We would like to proceed on that very basis which, however, is
> tempered with more nuanced approach as suggested by Bilchitz. This, in fact,
> is the amalgam of German and Canadian approach. We feel that the stages, as
> mentioned in Modern Dental College & Research Centre [Modern Dental College
> & Research Centre v. State of M.P., (2016) 7 SCC 353] and recapitulated
> above, would be the safe method in undertaking this exercise, with focus on
> the parameters as suggested by Bilchitz, as this projects an ideal approach
> that need to be adopted.” (emphasis supplied)
67\. Dr. Chandrachud, J., in K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar­5J.) (supra), made
observations on the test of proportionality that needs to be satisfied under
our Constitution for a violation of the right to privacy to be justified, in
the following words:
“1288. In K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India [K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of
India, (2017) 10 SCC 1], one of us (Chandrachud, J.), speaking for four
Judges, laid down the tests that would need to be satisfied under our
Constitution for violations of privacy to be justified. This included the test
of proportionality: (SCC p. 509, para 325)  59 “325. … A law which encroaches
upon privacy will have to withstand the touchstone of permissible restrictions
on fundamental rights.
In the context of Article 21 an invasion of privacy must be justified on the
basis of a law which stipulates a procedure which is fair, just and
reasonable. The law must also be valid with reference to the encroachment on
life and personal liberty under Article 21. An invasion of life or personal
liberty must meet the threefold requirement of (i) legality, which postulates
the existence of law;
(ii) need, defined in terms of a legitimate State aim; and (iii)
proportionality which ensures a rational nexus between the objects and the
means adopted to achieve them.” The third principle [(iii) above] adopts the
test of proportionality to ensure a rational nexus between the objects and the
means adopted to achieve them. The essential role of the test of
proportionality is to enable the court to determine whether a legislative
measure is disproportionate in its interference with the fundamental right. In
determining this, the court will have regard to whether a less intrusive
measure could have been adopted consistent with the object of the law and
whether the impact of the encroachment on a fundamental right is
disproportionate to the benefit which is likely to ensue. The proportionality
standard must be met by the procedural and substantive aspects of the law.
Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J., in his concurring  60 opinion, suggested a
four­pronged test as follows: (SCC p. 632, para 638) “(i) The action must be
sanctioned by law;
(ii) The proposed action must be necessary in a democratic society for a
legitimate aim;
                         (iii) The      extent      of     such
                               interference        must      be
                               proportionate to the need for
                               such interference;
                         (iv) There must be procedural
                               guarantees against abuse of
                               such interference.”
                                                         (emphasis supplied)
    68. After   applying    the   aforesaid   doctrine   in   deciding   the
constitutional validity of the Aadhaar scheme, Dr. Chandrachud, J., in the
K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar­5J.) case (supra), reiterated the fundamental
precepts of doctrine of proportionality in relation to protection of privacy
interests while dealing with personal data:
“1324. The fundamental precepts of proportionality, as they emerge from
decided cases can be formulated thus:
1324.1. A law interfering with fundamental rights must be in pursuance of a
legitimate State aim;
1324.2. The justification for rights­infringing measures that interfere with
or limit the exercise of fundamental rights and  61 liberties must be based on
the existence of a rational connection between those measures, the situation
in fact and the object sought to be achieved;
1324.3. The measures must be necessary to achieve the object and must not
infringe rights to an extent greater than is necessary to fulfil the aim;
1324.4. Restrictions must not only serve legitimate purposes; they must also
be necessary to protect them; and 1324.5. The State must provide sufficient
safeguards relating to the storing and protection of centrally stored data. In
order to prevent arbitrary or abusive interference with privacy, the State
must guarantee that the collection and use of personal information is based on
the consent of the individual; that it is authorised by law and that
sufficient safeguards exist to ensure that the data is only used for the
purpose specified at the time of collection. Ownership of the data must at all
times vest in the individual whose data is collected. The individual must have
a right of access to the data collected and the discretion to opt out.”
(emphasis supplied)
69\. This is the current state of the doctrine of proportionality as it exists
in India, wherein proportionality is the key tool to achieve  62 judicial
balance. But many scholars are not agreeable to recognize proportionality
equivalent to that of balancing.21
70\. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we may summarize the requirements of
the doctrine of proportionality which must be followed by the authorities
before passing any order intending on restricting fundamental rights of
individuals. In the first stage itself, the possible goal of such a measure
intended at imposing restrictions must be determined. It ought to be noted
that such goal must be legitimate. However, before settling on the aforesaid
measure, the authorities must assess the existence of any alternative
mechanism in furtherance of the aforesaid goal. The appropriateness of such a
measure depends on its implication upon the fundamental rights and the
necessity of such measure. It is undeniable from the aforesaid holding that
only the least restrictive measure can be resorted to by the State, taking
into consideration the facts and circumstances. Lastly, since the order has
serious implications on the fundamental rights of the 21Julian Rivers,
Proportionality and Variable Intensity of Review, (2006) 65 C.L.J. 174
(hereinafter Rivers, “Proportionality”); Martin Luteran, Towards
Proportionality as a Proportion Between Means and Ends in Cian C. Murphy and
Penny Green (eds.), Law and Outsiders: Norms, Processes and “Othering” in the
21st Century (2011) (hereinafter Luteran, “Towards Proportionality”); see also
the contribution of Alison L. Young in Chapter 3 of this volume.
63 affected parties, the same should be supported by sufficient material and
should be amenable to judicial review.
71\. The degree of restriction and the scope of the same, both territorially
and temporally, must stand in relation to what is actually necessary to combat
an emergent situation.
72\. To consider the immediate impact of restrictions upon the realization of
the fundamental rights, the decision maker must prioritize the various factors
at stake. Such attribution of relative importance is what constitutes
proportionality. It ought to be noted that a decision which curtails
fundamental rights without appropriate justification will be classified as
disproportionate. The concept of proportionality requires a restriction to be
tailored in accordance with the territorial extent of the restriction, the
stage of emergency, nature of urgency, duration of such restrictive measure
and nature of such restriction. The triangulation of a restriction requires
the consideration of appropriateness, necessity and the least restrictive
measure before being imposed.
73\. In this context, we need to note that the Petitioners have relied on a
recent judgment of the High Court of Hong Kong, in Kwok  64 Wing Hang and Ors.
v. Chief Executive in Council, [2019] HKCFI 2820 to state that the Hong Kong
High Court has utilised the principle to declare the “anti­mask” law as
unconstitutional. In any case, we need not comment on the law laid down
therein, as this Court has independently propounded the test of
proportionality as applicable in the Indian context. However, we may just
point out that the proportionality test needs to be applied in the context of
facts and circumstances, which are very different in the case at hand.
74\. Having observed the law on proportionality and reasonable restrictions,
we need to come back to the application of restrictions on the freedom of
speech over the internet.
75\. The respondent­State has vehemently opposed selective access to internet
services based on lack of technology to do the same. If such a contention is
accepted, then the Government would have a free pass to put a complete
internet blockage every time. Such complete blocking/prohibition perpetually
cannot be accepted by this Court.
76\. However, there is ample merit in the contention of the Government that
the internet could be used to propagate terrorism thereby challenging the
sovereignty and integrity of  65 India. This Court would only observe that
achievement of peace and tranquillity within the erstwhile State of Jammu and
Kashmir requires a multifaceted approach without excessively burdening the
freedom of speech. In this regard the Government is required to consider
various options under Article 19(2) of the Constitution, so that the brunt of
exigencies is decimated in a manner which burdens freedom of speech in a
minimalist manner.
77\. Having discussed the general constitutional ambit of the fundamental
rights, proportionality and reasonable restrictions, and a specific discussion
on freedom of expression through the internet and its restriction under
Article 19(2), we now need to analyse the application of the same in the
present case. F. INTERNET SHUTDOWN
78\. Having observed the substantive law concerning the right to internet and
the restrictions that can be imposed on the same, we need to turn our
attention to the procedural aspect.
79\. It must be noted that although substantive justice under the fundamental
rights analysis is important, procedural justice cannot be sacrificed on the
altar of substantive justice. There is a  66 need for procedural justice in
cases relating to restrictions which impact individuals’ fundamental rights as
was recognized by this Court in the case of Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India,
(1978) 1 SCC 248 and the K. S. Puttaswamy (Privacy­9J.) case (supra).
80\. The procedural mechanism contemplated for restrictions on the Internet,
is twofold: first is contractual, relating to the contract signed between
Internet Service Providers and the Government, and the second is statutory,
under the Information Technology Act, 2000, the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973
and the Telegraph Act. In the present case, we are concerned only with the
statutory scheme available, particularly under the Telegraph Act, and we will
therefore confine our discussion mostly to the same. However, as it would be
apposite to distinguish between the different statutory mechanisms, we would
touch upon these cursorily.
81\. Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with the
Information Technology (Procedures and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of
Information by Public) Rules, 2009 allows blocking of access to information.
This Court, in the Shreya Singhal case (supra), upheld the constitutional
validity of this  67 Section and the Rules made thereunder. It is to be noted
however, that the field of operation of this section is limited in scope. The
aim of the section is not to restrict/block the internet as a whole, but only
to block access to particular websites on the internet. Recourse cannot,
therefore, be made by the Government to restrict the internet generally under
this section.
82\. Prior to 2017, any measure restricting the internet generally or even
shutting down the internet was passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C., a general
provision granting wide powers to the Magistrates specified therein to pass
orders in cases of apprehended danger. In 2015, the High Court of Gujarat, in
the case of Gaurav Sureshbhai Vyas v. State of Gujarat, in Writ Petition (PIL)
No. 191 of 2015, considered a challenge to an order under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
blocking access to mobile internet services in the State of Gujarat. The High
Court of Gujarat, vide order dated 15.09.2015, upheld the restriction imposed
by the Magistrate under Section 144, Cr.P.C. While the Court did not undertake
a full­fledged discussion of the power of the Magistrate to issue such
restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C., the Court observed as follows:
68 “9.…[U]nder Section 144 of the Code, directions may be issued to certain
persons who may be the source for extending the facility of internet access.
Under the circumstances, we do not find that the contention raised on behalf
of the petitioner that the resort to only Section 69A was available and
exercise of power under Section 144 of the Code was unavailable, can be
accepted.” (emphasis supplied) A Special Leave Petition was filed against the
above judgment of the Gujarat High Court, being SLP (C) No. 601 of 2016, which
was dismissed by this Court in limine on 11.02.2016.
83\. The position has changed since 2017, with the passage of the Suspension
Rules under Section 7 of the Telegraph Act. With the promulgation of the
Suspension Rules, the States are using the aforesaid Rules to restrict telecom
services including access to the internet.
84\. The Suspension Rules lay down certain safeguards, keeping in mind the
fact that an action under the same has a large effect on the fundamental
rights of citizens. It may be mentioned here that we are not concerned with
the constitutionality of the Suspension Rules, and arguments on the same were
not canvassed by either  69 side. As such, we are limiting our discussion to
the procedure laid down therein. Rule 2 lays down the procedure to be followed
for the suspension of telecom services, and merits reproduction in its
entirety:
> “2.(1) Directions to suspend the telecom services shall not be issued except
> by an order made by the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry
> of Home Affairs in the case of Government of India or by the Secretary to
> the State Government in­charge of the Home Department in the case of a State
> Government (hereinafter referred to as the competent authority), and in
> unavoidable circumstances, where obtaining of prior direction is not
> feasible, such order may be issued by an officer, not below the rank of a
> Joint Secretary to the Government of India, who has been duly authorised by
> the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary, as the case may be:
> Provided that the order for suspension of telecom services, issued by the
> officer authorised by the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary,
> shall be subject to the confirmation from the competent authority within 24
> hours of issuing such order:
> Provided further that the order of suspension of telecom services shall
> cease to exist in case of failure of receipt of confirmation from the
> competent authority within the said period of 24 hours.
(2) Any order issued by the competent authority under sub­rule (1) shall
contain  70 reasons for such direction and a copy of such order shall be
forwarded to the concerned Review Committee latest by next working day. (3)
The directions for suspension issued under sub­rule (1) shall be conveyed to
designated officers of the telegraph authority or to the designated officers
of the service providers, who have been granted licenses under section 4 of
the said Act, in writing or by secure electronic communication by an officer
not below the rank of Superintendent of Police or of the equivalent rank and
mode of secure electronic communication and its implementation shall be
determined by the telegraph authority.
(4) The telegraph authority and service providers shall designate officers in
every licensed service area or State or Union territory, as the case may be,
as the nodal officers to receive and handle such requisitions for suspension
of telecom services.
(5) The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, shall
constitute a Review Committee.
(i) The Review Committee to be constituted by the Central Government shall
consist of the following, namely:­
(a) Cabinet Secretary­Chairman;
(b) Secretary to the Government of India In­charge, Legal Affairs­Member;
    (c)   Secretary    to    the    Government,
          Department of Telecommunications
          ­Member.
(ii) The Review Committee to be constituted by the State Government shall
consist of the following, namely:­  71
(a) Chief Secretary­Chairman;
> (b)Secretary Law or Legal Remembrancer In­Charge, Legal Affairs­Member;
> (c)Secretary to the State Government (other than the Home Secretary)
> ­Member.
> (6) The Review Committee shall meet within five working days of issue of
> directions for suspension of services due to public emergency or public
> safety and record its findings whether the directions issued under sub­rule
> (1) are in accordance with the provisions of sub­section (2) of section 5 of
> the said Act.”
85\. Rule 2(1) specifies the competent authority to issue an order under the
Suspension Rules, who in ordinary circumstances would be the Secretary to the
Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, or in the case of the State
Government, the Secretary to the Home Department of the State Government. The
sub­rule also provides that in certain “unavoidable” circumstances an officer,
who is duly authorised, not below the rank of a Joint Secretary, may pass an
order suspending services. The two provisos to Rule 2(1) are extremely
relevant herein, creating an internal check as to orders which are passed by
an authorised officer in “unavoidable” circumstances, as opposed to the
ordinary mechanism envisaged, which is the  72 issuing of the order by the
competent authority. The provisos together provide that the orders passed by
duly authorised officers in “unavoidable” circumstances need to be confirmed
by the competent authority within twenty­four hours, failing which, as per the
second proviso, the order of suspension will cease to exist. The confirmation
of the order by the competent authority is therefore essential, failing which
the order passed by a duly authorised officer will automatically lapse by
operation of law.
86\. Rule 2(2) is also extremely important, as it lays down twin requirements
for orders passed under Rule 2(1). First, it requires that every order passed
by a competent authority under Rule 2(1) must be a reasoned order. This
requirement must be read to extend not only to orders passed by a competent
authority, but also to those orders passed by an authorised officer which is
to be sent for subsequent confirmation to the competent authority. The
reasoning of the authorised officer should not only indicate the necessity of
the measure but also what the “unavoidable” circumstance was which
necessitated his passing the order. The purpose of the aforesaid rule is to
integrate the proportionality analysis within the framework of the Rules.  73
87\. Only in such an event would the requirement of confirmation by the
competent authority have any meaning, as it would allow the competent
authority to properly consider the action taken by the authorised officer.
Further, the confirmation must not be a mere formality, but must indicate
independent application of mind by the competent authority to the order passed
by the authorised officer, who must also take into account changed
circumstances if any, etc. After all, it is the competent authority who has
been given the power under the Suspension Rules to suspend telecom services,
with the authorised officer acting under the Suspension Rules only due to some
exigent circumstances.
88\. The second requirement under Rule 2(2) is the forwarding of the reasoned
order of the competent authority to a Review Committee which has been set up
under the Suspension Rules, within one working day. The composition of the
Review Committee is provided under Rule 2(5), with two distinct review
committees contemplated for the Union and the State, depending on the
competent authority which issued the order under Rule 2(1). Rule 2(6) is the
final internal check under the Suspension Rules with respect to the orders
issued thereunder. Rule 2(6) requires the concerned Review Committee to meet
within five working  74 days of issuance of the order suspending telecom
services, and record its findings about whether the order issued under the
Suspension Rules is in accordance with the provisions of the main statute,
viz., Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act.
89\. This last requirement, of the orders issued under the Rules being in
accordance with Section 5(2), Telegraph Act, is very relevant to understand
the circumstances in which the suspension orders may be passed. Section 5(2),
Telegraph Act is as follows:
> “5. Power for Government to take possession of licensed telegraphs and to
> order interception of messages xxx (2) On the occurrence of any public
> emergency, or in the interest of the public safety, the Central Government
> or a State Government or any officer specially authorised in this behalf by
> the Central Government or a State Government may, if satisfied that it is
> necessary or expedient so to do in the interests of the sovereignty and
> integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with
> foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the
> commission of an offence, for reasons to be recorded in writing, by order,
> direct that any message or class of messages to or from any person or class
> of persons, or relating to any particular subject, brought for transmission
> by or transmitted or received by any telegraph, shall not be transmitted, or
> shall be intercepted or detained, or shall be disclosed to the Government
> making the order or an officer thereof mentioned in the order:
75
Provided that the press messages intended to be published in India of
correspondents accredited to the Central Government or a State Government
shall not be intercepted or detained, unless their transmission has been
prohibited under this sub­section.”
90\. This Court has had prior occasion to interpret Section 5 of the Telegraph
Act. In the case of Hukam Chand Shyam Lal v. Union of India, (1976) 2 SCC 128,
a Four­Judge Bench of this Court interpreted Section 5 of the Telegraph Act
and observed as follows:
> “13. Section 5(1) if properly construed, does not confer unguided and
> unbridled power on the Central Government/State Government/ specially
> authorised officer to take possession of any telegraphs. Firstly, the
> occurrence of a “public emergency” is the sine qua non for the exercise of
> power under this section.
As a preliminary step to the exercise of further jurisdiction under this
section the Government or the authority concerned must record its satisfaction
as to the existence of such an emergency. Further, the existence of the
emergency which is a pre­requisite for the exercise of power under this
section, must be a “public emergency” and not any other kind of emergency. The
expression public emergency has not been defined in the statute, but contours
broadly delineating its scope and features are discernible from the section
which has to be read as a whole. In sub­section (1) the phrase ‘occurrence of
any public  76 emergency’ is connected with and is immediately followed by the
phrase “or in the interests of the public safety”. These two phrases appear to
take colour from each other. In the first part of sub­section (2) those two
phrases again occur in association with each other, and the context further
clarifies with amplification that a “public emergency” within the
contemplation of this section is one which raises problems concerning the
interest of the public safety, the sovereignty and integrity of India, the
security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order
or the prevention of incitement to the commission of an offence. It is in the
context of these matters that the appropriate authority has to form an opinion
with regard to the occurrence of a public emergency with a view to taking
further action under this section...” (emphasis supplied)
91\. The aforementioned case was followed in People’s Union for Civil
Liberties (PUCL) v. Union of India, (1997) 1 SCC 301, in the context of
phone­tapping orders passed under Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act, wherein
this Court observed as follows:
> “29. The first step under Section 5(2) of the Act, therefore, is the
> occurrence of any public emergency or the existence of a public safety
> interest. Thereafter the competent authority under Section 5(2) of the Act
> is empowered to pass an order of interception after recording its  77
> satisfaction that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the interest of
> (i) sovereignty and integrity of India, (ii) the security of the State,
> (iii) friendly relations with foreign States, (iv) public order or (v) for
> preventing incitement to the commission of an offence. When any of the five
> situations mentioned above to the satisfaction of the competent authority
> require then the said authority may pass the order for interception of
> messages by recording reasons in writing for doing so.”
92\. Keeping in mind the wordings of the section, and the above two
pronouncements of this Court, what emerges is that the pre­ requisite for an
order to be passed under this sub­section, and therefore the Suspension Rules,
is the occurrence of a “public emergency” or for it to be “in the interest of
public safety”. Although the phrase “public emergency” has not been defined
under the Telegraph Act, it has been clarified that the meaning of the phrase
can be inferred from its usage in conjunction with the phrase “in the interest
of public safety” following it. The Hukam Chand Shyam Lal case (supra) further
clarifies that the scope of “public emergency” relates to the situations
contemplated under the sub­section pertaining to “sovereignty and integrity of
India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or
78 public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of an offence”.
93\. The word ‘emergency’ has various connotations. Everyday emergency, needs
to be distinguished from the type of emergency wherein events which involve,
or might involve, serious and sometimes widespread risk of injury or harm to
members of the public or the destruction of, or serious damage to, property.
Article 4 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, notes
that ‘[I]n time of public emergency which threatens the life of the nation and
the existence of which is officially proclaimed...’. Comparable language has
also been used in Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights which
says­ "In time of war or other public emergency threatening the life of the
nation". We may only point out that the ‘public emergency’ is required to be
of serious nature, and needs to be determined on a case to case basis.
94\. The second requirement of Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act is for the
authority to be satisfied that it is necessary or expedient to pass the orders
in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the
State, friendly relations with foreign  79 states or public order or for
preventing incitement to the commission of an offence, and must record reasons
thereupon. The term ‘necessity’ and ‘expediency’ brings along the stages an
emergency is going to pass through usually. A public emergency usually would
involve different stages and the authorities are required to have regards to
the stage, before the power can be utilized under the aforesaid rules. The
appropriate balancing of the factors differs, when considering the stages of
emergency and accordingly, the authorities are required to triangulate the
necessity of imposition of such restriction after satisfying the
proportionality requirement.
95\. A point canvassed by the learned counsel for the Petitioner, Ms. Vrinda
Grover, with regard to the interpretation of the proviso to Section 5(2) of
the Telegraph Act. The proviso to the section specifies that a class of
messages, i.e., press messages intended to be published in India of
correspondents accredited to the Central Government or a State Government,
will be treated differently from other classes of messages. The learned
counsel contended that this separate classification necessitates that an order
interfering with the press would be in compliance with Section 5(2) of the
Telegraph Act only if it specifically states that  80 the press is also to be
restricted. However, the aforesaid interpretation could not be supported by
the petitioner with any judgments of this Court.
96\. It must be noted that although the Suspension Rules does not provide for
publication or notification of the orders, a settled principle of law, and of
natural justice, is that an order, particularly one that affects lives,
liberty and property of people, must be made available. Any law which demands
compliance of the people requires to be notified directly and reliably. This
is the case regardless of whether the parent statute or rule prescribes the
same or not. We are therefore required to read in the requirement of ensuring
that all the orders passed under the Suspension Rules are made freely
available, through some suitable mechanism. [See B.K. Srinivasan v. State of
Karnataka, (1987) 1 SCC 658]
97\. The above requirement would further the rights of an affected party to
challenge the orders, if aggrieved. Judicial review of the orders issued under
the Suspension Rules is always available, although no appellate mechanism has
been provided, and the same cannot be taken away or made ineffective. An
aggrieved  81 person has the constitutional right to challenge the orders made
under the Suspension Rules, before the High Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution or other appropriate forum.
98\. We also direct that all the above procedural safeguards, as elucidated by
us, need to be mandatorily followed. In this context, this Court in the Hukam
Chand Shyam Lal case (supra), observed as follows:
> “18. It is well­settled that where a power is required to be exercised by a
> certain authority in a certain way, it should be exercised in that manner or
> not at all, and all other amodes (sic) of performance are necessarily
> forbidden. It is all the more necessary to observe this rule where power is
> of a drastic nature...” (emphasis supplied) This applies with even more
> force considering the large public impact on the right to freedom of speech
> and expression that such a broad­based restriction would have.
99\. Lastly, we think it necessary to reiterate that complete broad suspension
of telecom services, be it the Internet or otherwise, being a drastic measure,
must be considered by the State only if ‘necessary’ and ‘unavoidable’. In
furtherance of the same, the  82 State must assess the existence of an
alternate less intrusive remedy. Having said so, we may note that the
aforesaid Suspension Rules have certain gaps, which are required to be
considered by the legislature.
100\. One of the gaps which must be highlighted relates to the usage of the
word “temporary” in the title of the Suspension Rules. Despite the above,
there is no indication of the maximum duration for which a suspension order
can be in operation. Keeping in mind the requirements of proportionality
expounded in the earlier section of the judgment, we are of the opinion that
an order suspending the aforesaid services indefinitely is impermissible. In
this context, it is necessary to lay down some procedural safeguard till the
aforesaid deficiency is cured by the legislature to ensure that the exercise
of power under the Suspension Rules is not disproportionate. We therefore
direct that the Review Committee constituted under Rule 2(5) of the Suspension
Rules must conduct a periodic review within seven working days of the previous
review, in terms of the requirements under Rule 2(6). The Review Committee
must therefore not only look into the question of whether the restrictions are
still in compliance with the requirements of Section 5(2) of the Telegraph  83
Act, but must also look into the question of whether the orders are still
proportionate, keeping in mind the constitutional consequences of the same. We
clarify that looking to the fact that the restrictions contemplated under the
Suspension Rules are temporary in nature, the same must not be allowed to
extend beyond that time period which is necessary.
101\. Coming to the orders placed before us regarding restrictions on
communication and Internet, there are eight orders that are placed before us.
Four orders have been passed by the Inspector General of Police, of the
respective zone, while the other four orders are confirmation orders passed by
the Principal Secretary to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, Home
Department, confirming the four orders passed by the Inspector General of
Police.
102\. The learned Solicitor General has apprised the Bench that the
authorities are considering relaxation of the restrictions and in some places
the restrictions have already been removed. He also pointed that the
authorities are constantly reviewing the same. In this case, the submission of
the Solicitor General that there is still possibility of danger to public
safety cannot be ignored, as this Court has not been completely apprised about
the ground  84 situation by the State. We believe that the authorities have to
pass their orders based on the guidelines provided in this case afresh. The
learned Solicitor General had submitted, on a query being put to him regarding
the feasibility of a measure blocking only social media services, that the
same could not be done. However, the State should have attempted to determine
the feasibility of such a measure. As all the orders have not been placed
before this Court and there is no clarity as to which orders are in operation
and which have already been withdrawn, as well as the apprehension raised in
relation to the possibility of public order situations, we have accordingly
moulded the relief in the operative portion.
G. RESTRICTIONS UNDER SECTION 144 OF CRPC.
“As emergency does not shield the actions of Government completely;
disagreement does not justify destabilisation;
the beacon of rule of law shines always.”
103\. The Petitioners have asserted that there were no disturbing facts which
warranted the imposition of restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C. on
04.08.2019. They strenuously argued that there  85 had to be a circumstance on
04.08.2019 showing that there would be an action which will likely create
obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person or will likely cause
disturbance of the public tranquillity, and the Government could not have
passed such orders in anticipation or on the basis of a mere apprehension.
104\. In response, the learned Solicitor General, on behalf of the Respondent,
argued that the volatile history, overwhelming material available even in the
public domain about external aggressions, nefarious secessionist activities
and the provocative statements given by political leaders, created a
compelling situation which mandated passing of orders under Section 144,
Cr.P.C.
105\. These contentions require us to examine the scope of Section 144,
Cr.P.C, which reads as follows:
> “144. Power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended
> danger.—(1) In cases where, in the opinion of a District Magistrate, a
> Sub­divisional Magistrate or any other Executive Magistrate specially
> empowered by the State Government in this behalf, there is sufficient ground
> for proceeding  86 under this section and immediate prevention or speedy
> remedy is desirable, such Magistrate may, by a written order stating the
> material facts of the case and served in the manner provided by Section 134,
> direct any person to abstain from a certain act or to take certain order
> with respect to certain property in his possession or under his management,
> if such Magistrate considers that such direction is likely to prevent, or
> tends to prevent, obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person lawfully
> employed, or danger to human life, health or safety, or a disturbance of the
> public tranquillity, or a riot, or an affray.
(2) An order under this section may, in cases of emergency or in cases where
the circumstances do not admit of the serving in due time of a notice upon the
person against whom the order is directed, be passed ex parte. (3) An order
under this section may be directed to a particular individual, or to persons
residing in a particular place or area, or to the public generally when
frequenting or visiting a particular place or area.
(4) No order under this section shall remain in force for more than two months
from the making thereof:
87
Provided that, if the State Government considers it necessary so to do for
preventing danger to human life, health or safety or for preventing a riot or
any affray, it may, by notification, direct that an order made by a Magistrate
under this section shall remain in force for such further period not exceeding
six months from the date on which the order made by the Magistrate would have,
but for such order, expired, as it may specify in the said notification.
(5) Any Magistrate may, either on his own motion or on the application of any
person aggrieved, rescind or alter any order made under this section, by
himself or any Magistrate subordinate to him or by his predecessor­in­office.
(6) The State Government may, either on its own motion or on the application
of any person aggrieved, rescind or alter any order made by it under the
proviso to sub­section (4).
(7) Where an application under sub­section (5) or sub­section (6) is received,
the Magistrate, or the State Government, as the case may be, shall afford to
the applicant an early opportunity of appearing before him or it, either in
person or by pleader and showing cause  88 against the order; and if the
Magistrate or the State Government, as the case may be, rejects the
application wholly or in part, he or it shall record in writing the reasons
for so doing.
106\. Section 144, Cr.P.C. is one of the mechanisms that enable the State to
maintain public peace. It forms part of the Chapter in the Criminal Procedure
Code dealing with “Maintenance of Public Order and Tranquillity” and is
contained in the sub­chapter on “urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended
danger”. The structure of the provision shows that this power can only be
invoked in “urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger”.
107\. Section 144, Cr.P.C. enables the State to take preventive measures to
deal with imminent threats to public peace. It enables the Magistrate to issue
a mandatory order requiring certain actions to be undertaken, or a prohibitory
order restraining citizens from doing certain things. But it also provides for
several safeguards to ensure that the power is not abused, viz.­ prior inquiry
before exercising this power, setting out material facts for exercising this
power and modifying/rescinding the order when the situation so warrants.
89
108\. The aforesaid safeguards in Section 144, Cr.P.C. are discussed below and
deserve close scrutiny.
(a) Prior Inquiry before issuing Order: Before issuing an order under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the District Magistrate (or any authorised Magistrate) must be
of the opinion that: i. There is a sufficient ground for proceeding under this
provision i.e. the order is likely to prevent obstruction, annoyance or injury
to any person lawfully employed or danger to human life, health or safety or
disturbance to the public tranquillity; and ii. Immediate prevention or speedy
remedy is desirable.
The phrase “opinion” suggests that it must be arrived at after a careful
inquiry by the Magistrate about the need to exercise the extraordinary power
conferred under this provision.
(b) Content of the Order: Once a Magistrate arrives at an opinion, he may
issue a written order either prohibiting a person from doing something or a
mandatory order requiring a person to take action with respect to property in
his possession or under his management. But the order cannot be a blanket
order. It must set out the “material facts” of the case. The “material facts”
must indicate the reasons which  90 weighed with the Magistrate to issue an
order under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
(c) Communication of the Order: The Order must be served in the manner
provided under Section 134, Cr.P.C., i.e., served on the person against whom
it is made. If such a course of action is not practicable, it must be notified
by proclamation and publication so as to convey the information to persons
affected by the order. Only in case of an emergency or where the circumstances
are such that notice cannot be served on such a person, can the order be
passed ex parte.
(d) Duration of the Order: As this power can only be exercised in urgent
cases, the statute has incorporated temporal restrictions—the order cannot be
in force for more than two months. However, the State Government can extend an
order issued under Section 144, Cr.P.C. by a Magistrate for a further period
up to six months if the State Government considers it necessary for preventing
danger to human life, health or safety or preventing a riot.
Although, a two­month period outer limit for the Magistrate, and a six­month
limit for the State Government, has been provided under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
but the concerned  91 Magistrate and the State Government must take all steps
to ensure that the restrictions are imposed for a limited duration.
(e) Act Judicially while Rescinding or Modification of the Order: The
Magistrate can rescind or alter any order made by him on his own or on an
application by any aggrieved person. Similarly, the State Government may also
on its own motion rescind or alter any order passed by it, extending an order
passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. While considering any application for
modification or alteration, the Magistrate or the State Government is required
to act judicially, i.e., give a personal hearing and give reasons if it
rejects the application. Care should be taken to dispose of such applications
expeditiously.
109\. Section 144, Cr.P.C. has been the subject matter of several Constitution
Bench rulings and we will briefly examine them. The constitutional validity of
Section 144, Cr.P.C. under the predecessor of the 1898 Act came up for the
first time before the Constitution Bench of this Court in Babulal Parate case
(supra).  92 Repelling the contention that it is an infringement of the
fundamental right of assembly, this Court upheld the provision due to the
various safeguards inbuilt under Section 144, Cr.P.C. This Court opined that:
> a. Section 144, Cr.P.C does not confer arbitrary power on the Magistrate,
> since it must be preceded by an inquiry. b. Although Section 144, Cr.P.C
> confers wide powers, it can only be exercised in an emergency, and for the
> purpose of preventing obstruction and annoyance or injury to any person
> lawfully employed. Section 144, Cr.P.C is not an unlimited power. c. The
> Magistrate, while issuing an order, has to state the material facts upon
> which it is based. Since the order states the relevant facts, the High Court
> will have relevant material to consider whether such material is adequate to
> issue Section 144, Cr.P.C order. While considering such reasons, due weight
> must be given to the opinion of the District Magistrate who is responsible
> for the maintenance of public peace in the district. d. This power can be
> exercised even when the Magistrate apprehends danger. It is not just mere
> “likelihood” or a “tendency”, but immediate prevention of particular acts to
> counteract danger.
e. Even if certain sections of people residing in the particular area are
disturbing public order, the Magistrate can pass an order for the entire area
as it is difficult for the Magistrate to distinguish between members of the
public and the people engaging in  93 unlawful activity. However, any affected
person can always apply to the Magistrate under Section 144(4), Cr.P.C.
seeking exemption or modification of the order to permit them to carry out any
lawful activity. f. If any person makes an application for modification or
alteration of the order, the Magistrate has to conduct a judicial proceeding
by giving a hearing, and give the reasons for the decision arrived at.
g. The order of the Magistrate under Section 144, Cr.P.C is subject to
challenge before the High Court. The High Court’s revisionary powers are wide
enough to quash an order which cannot be supported by the materials upon which
the order is supposed to be based.
h. If any prosecution is launched for non­compliance of an order issued under
Section 144, Cr.P.C., the validity of such an order under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
can be challenged even at that stage.
110\. The validity of the Section 144(6) under the 1898 Act again came up for
consideration before a Bench of five Judges in State of Bihar v. Kamla Kant
Misra, (1969) 3 SCC 337. The majority judgment declared the latter part of
Section 144(6), Cr.P.C as it then existed, which enabled the State Government
to extend an order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. indefinitely, as
unconstitutional, since it did not provide limitations on the duration of the
order and no mechanism was provided therein to  94 make a representation
against the duration of the order. Under the 1973 Act, a time limit has been
prescribed on the maximum duration of the order.
111\. A Bench of seven Judges in the Madhu Limaye case (supra) was constituted
to re­consider the law laid down in Babulal Parate (supra) and the
constitutional validity of Section 144, Cr.P.C. This Court, while affirming
the constitutional validity of Section 144, Cr.P.C. reiterated the safeguards
while exercising the power under Section 144, Cr.P.C. The Court highlighted
that the power under Section 144, Cr.P.C. must be:
> (a) exercised in urgent situations to prevent harmful occurrences. Since
> this power can be exercised absolutely and even ex parte, “the emergency
> must be sudden and the consequences sufficiently grave”
> (b)exercised in a judicial manner which can withstand judicial scrutiny.
This Court observed that:
> “24. The gist of action under Section 144 is the urgency of the situation,
> its efficacy in the likelihood of being able to prevent some harmful
> occurrences. As it is possible to act absolutely and even ex parte. it is
> obvious that the emergency must be sudden and the consequences sufficiently
> grave. Without it the exercise of power would have no  95 justification. It
> is not an ordinary power flowing from administration but a power used in a
> judicial manner and which can stand further judicial scrutiny in the need
> for the exercise of the power, in its efficacy and in the extent of its
> application. There is no general proposition that an order under Section
> 144, Criminal Procedure Code cannot be passed without taking evidence: …
> These fundamental facts emerge from the way the occasions for the exercise
> of the power are mentioned. Disturbances of public tranquillity, riots and
> affray lead to subversion of public order unless they are prevented in time.
> Nuisances dangerous to human life, health or safety have no doubt to be
> abated and prevented. …..In so far as the other parts of the section are
> concerned the key­note of the power is to free society from menace of
> serious disturbances of a grave character. The section is directed against
> those who attempt to prevent the exercise of legal rights by others or
> imperil the public safety and health. If that be so the matter must fall
> within the restrictions which the Constitution itself visualizes as
> permissible in the interest of public order, or in the interest of the
> general public. We may say, however, that annoyance must assume sufficiently
> grave proportions to bring the matter within interests of public order.”
> (emphasis supplied)
112\. Again, in Mohd. Gulam Abbas v. Mohd. Ibrahim, (1978) 1 SCC 226, this
Court, in deciding a review petition, elaborated on the circumstances in which
the power under Section 144, Cr.P.C. can be exercised. This Court held as
under:  96 “3. ...It is only where it is not practicable to allow them to do
something which is quite legal, having regard to the state of excited feelings
of persons living in an area or frequenting a locality, that any action may be
taken under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code which may interfere
with what are, otherwise, completely legal and permissible conduct and speech.
4.….It may however be noted that the Magistrate is not concerned with
individual rights in performing his duty under Section 144 but he has to
determine what may be reasonably necessary or expedient in a situation of
which he is the best judge.
5.… If public peace and tranquillity or other objects mentioned there are not
in danger the Magistrate concerned cannot act under Section
144\. He could only direct parties to go to the proper forum. On the other
hand, if the public safety, peace, or tranquillity are in danger, it is left
to the Magistrate concerned to take proper action under Section 144, Cr.P.C.”
(emphasis supplied)
113\. In Gulam Abbas v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1982) 1 SCC 71, this Court
held that an order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. is an executive order
which can be questioned in exercise of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of
the Constitution. The Court reiterated the circumstances in which the power
can be exercised. The Court observed as under:
“27. The entire basis of action under Section 144 is provided by the urgency
of the  97 situation and the power thereunder is intended to be availed of for
preventing disorders, obstructions and annoyances with a view to secure the
public weal by maintaining public peace and tranquillity. Preservation of the
public peace and tranquillity is the primary function of the Government and
the aforesaid power is conferred on the executive magistracy enabling it to
perform that function effectively during emergent situations and as such it
may become necessary for the Executive Magistrate to override temporarily
private rights and in a given situation the power must extend to restraining
individuals from doing acts perfectly lawful in themselves, for, it is obvious
that when there is a conflict between the public interest and private rights
the former must prevail. …. In other words, the Magistrate’s action should be
directed against the wrong­doer rather than the wronged. Furthermore, it would
not be a proper exercise of discretion on the part of the Executive Magistrate
to interfere with the lawful exercise of the right by a party on a
consideration that those who threaten to interfere constitute a large majority
and it would be more convenient for the administration to impose restrictions
which would affect only a minor section of the community rather than prevent a
larger section more vociferous and militant.
    33. ...It    is   only   in   an   extremely
    extraordinary     situation,   when     other
    measures are bound to fail, that a total
prohibition or suspension of their rights may be resorted to as a last
measure.”  98 (emphasis supplied)
114\. Again, in Acharya Jagdishwaranand Avadhuta v. Commr. of Police,
Calcutta, (1983) 4 SCC 522, a Bench of three Judges expressed doubts about the
dicta in the Gulam Abbas case (supra) on the nature of the order under Section
144, Cr.P.C. but reiterated that repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power. This Court observed as follows:
> “16…. The scheme of that section does not contemplate repetitive orders and
> in case the situation so warrants steps have to be taken under other
> provisions of the law such as Section 107 or Section 145 of the Code when
> individual disputes are raised and to meet a situation such as here, there
> are provisions to be found in the Police Act. If repetitive orders are made
> it would clearly amount to abuse of the power conferred by Section 144 of
> the Code.” (emphasis supplied)
115\. In Ramlila Maidan Incident, In re, (2012) 5 SCC 1, this Court emphasised
the safeguards under Section 144, Cr.P.C. and the circumstances under which
such an order can be issued.
116\. The learned counsel on behalf of the Petitioners vehemently contested
the power of the Magistrate to pass the aforesaid orders under Section 144,
Cr.P.C. as there existed no incumbent  99 situation of emergency. It was
argued that such orders passed in mere anticipation or apprehension cannot be
sustained in the eyes of law. As explained above, the power under Section 144,
Cr.P.C. is a preventive power to preserve public order. In Babulal Parate case
(supra), this Court expressly clarified that this power can be exercised even
where there exists an apprehension of danger. This Court observed as under:
> “25. The language of Section 144 is somewhat different. The test laid down
> in the section is not merely “likelihood” or “tendency”. The section says
> that the Magistrate must be satisfied that immediate prevention of
> particular acts is necessary to counteract danger to public safety etc. The
> power conferred by the section is exercisable not only where present danger
> exists but is exercisable also when there is an apprehension of danger.”
> (emphasis supplied)
117\. In view of the language of the provision and settled law, we are unable
to accept the aforesaid contention.
118\. Further, learned senior counsel Mr. Kapil Sibal expressed his concern
that in the future any State could pass such type of blanket restrictions, for
example, to prevent opposition parties  100 from contesting or participating
in elections. In this context, it is sufficient to note that the power under
Section 144, Cr.P.C. cannot be used as a tool to prevent the legitimate
expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights. Our
Constitution protects the expression of divergent views, legitimate
expressions and disapproval, and this cannot be the basis for invocation of
Section 144, Cr.P.C. unless there is sufficient material to show that there is
likely to be an incitement to violence or threat to public safety or danger.
It ought to be noted that provisions of Section 144, Cr.P.C. will only be
applicable in a situation of emergency and for the purpose of preventing
obstruction and annoyance or injury to any person lawfully employed [refer to
Babulal Parate case (supra)]. It is enough to note that sufficient safeguards
exist in Section 144, Cr.P.C., including the presence of judicial review
challenging any abuse of power under the Section, to allay the apprehensions
of the petitioner.
119\. The Petitioners have also contended that ‘law and order’ is of a
narrower ambit than ‘public order’ and the invocation of ‘law and order’ would
justify a narrower set of restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
101
120\. In this context, it is pertinent for us to emphasize the holding
rendered by a five­Judge Bench of this court in Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of
Bihar, AIR 1966 SC 740, wherein this Court emphasised the difference between
“public order” and “law and order” situation. This Court observed as under:
> “55. It will thus appear that just as “public order” in the rulings of this
> Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend disorders of less gravity than
> those affecting “security of State”, “law and order” also comprehends
> disorders of less gravity than those affecting “public order”. One has to
> imagine three concentric circles. Law and order represents the largest
> circle within which is the next circle representing public order and the
> smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an
> act may affect law and order but not public order just as an act may affect
> public order but not security of the State. By using the expression
> “maintenance of law and order” the District Magistrate was widening his own
> field of action and was adding a clause to the Defence of India Rules.”
> (emphasis supplied)
121\. This Court therein held that a mere disturbance of law and order leading
to disorder may not necessarily lead to a breach of public order. Similarly,
the seven­Judge Bench in Madhu Limaye case  102 (supra) further elucidated as
to when and against whom the power under Section 144, Cr.P.C. can be exercised
by the Magistrate. This Court held therein, as under:
> “24. The gist of action under Section 144 is the urgency of the situation,
> its efficacy in the likelihood of being able to prevent some harmful
> occurrences. As it is possible to act absolutely and even ex parte it is
> obvious that the emergency must be sudden and the consequences sufficiently
> grave. Without it the exercise of power would have no justification.
It is not an ordinary power flowing from administration but a power used in a
judicial manner and which can stand further judicial scrutiny in the need for
the exercise of the power, in its efficacy and in the extent of its
application…. Disturbances of public tranquillity, riots and affray lead to
subversion of public order unless they are prevented in time. Nuisances
dangerous to human life, health or safety have no doubt to be abated and
prevented. We are, however, not concerned with this part of the section and
the validity of this part need not be decided here. In so far as the other
parts of the section are concerned the key­note of the power is to free
society from menace of serious disturbances of a grave character. The section
is directed against those who attempt to prevent the exercise of legal rights
by others or imperil the public safety and health. If that be so the matter
must fall within the restrictions which the Constitution itself visualizes as
permissible in the interest of public order, or in the interest of the general
public. We may say,  103 however, that annoyance must assume sufficiently
grave proportions to bring the matter within interests of public order.”
(emphasis supplied)
122\. This Court in Ramlila Maidan Incident, In re case (supra) further
enunciated upon the aforesaid distinction between a “public order” and “law
and order” situation:
> “44. The distinction between “public order” and “law and order” is a fine
> one, but nevertheless clear. A restriction imposed with “law and order” in
> mind would be least intruding into the guaranteed freedom while “public
> order” may qualify for a greater degree of restriction since public order is
> a matter of even greater social concern.
…
45\. It is keeping this distinction in mind, the legislature, under Section
144 CrPC, has empowered the District Magistrate, Sub­ Divisional Magistrate or
any other Executive Magistrate, specially empowered in this behalf, to direct
any person to abstain from doing a certain act or to take action as directed,
where sufficient ground for proceeding under this section exists and immediate
prevention and/or speedy remedy is desirable. By virtue of Section 144­A CrPC,
which itself was introduced by Act 25 of 2005 [Ed.: The Code of Criminal
Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2005.] , the District Magistrate has  104 been
empowered to pass an order prohibiting, in any area within the local limits of
his jurisdiction, the carrying of arms in any procession or the organising or
holding of any mass drill or mass training with arms in any public place,
where it is necessary for him to do so for the preservation of public peace,
public safety or maintenance of public order. …” (emphasis supplied)
123\. In view of the above, ‘law and order’, ‘public order’ and ‘security of
State’ are distinct legal standards and the Magistrate must tailor the
restrictions depending on the nature of the situation. If two families quarrel
over irrigation water, it might breach law and order, but in a situation where
two communities fight over the same, the situation might transcend into a
public order situation. However, it has to be noted that a similar approach
cannot be taken to remedy the aforesaid two distinct situations. The
Magistrate cannot apply a straitjacket formula without assessing the gravity
of the prevailing circumstances; the restrictions must be proportionate to the
situation concerned.
124\. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Kapil Sibal also contended that an order
under Section 144, Cr.P.C. cannot be issued against the  105 public generally
and must be specifically intended against the people or the group which is
apprehended to disturb the peace and tranquillity. This Court in the Madhu
Limaye case (supra), has clarified that such an order can be passed against
either a particular individual or the public in general. This Court was aware
that, at times, it may not be possible to distinguish between the subject of
protection under these orders and the individuals against whom these
prohibitory orders are required to be passed:
> “27.… Ordinarily the order would be directed against a person found acting
> or likely to act in a particular way. A general order may be necessary when
> the number of persons is so large that distinction between them and the
> general public cannot be made without the risks mentioned in the section. A
> general order is thus justified but if the action is too general, the order
> may be questioned by appropriate remedies for which there is ample provision
> in the law.” (emphasis supplied)
125\. The counsel on behalf of the Petitioners have argued that the validity
of the aforesaid restrictions has to be tested on its reasonableness. The
restrictions imposed must be proportionate to the proposed/perceived threat.
In the context of restrictions  106 imposed by way of orders passed under
Section 144, Cr.P.C., this Court, in Ramlila Maidan Incident case (supra),
held that an onerous duty is cast upon the concerned Magistrate to first
assess the perceived threat and impose the least invasive restriction
possible. The concerned Magistrate is duty bound to ensure that the
restrictions should never be allowed to be excessive either in nature or in
time. The relevant portion is extracted below:
> “39. There has to be a balance and proportionality between the right and
> restriction on the one hand, and the right and duty, on the other. It will
> create an imbalance, if undue or disproportionate emphasis is placed upon
> the right of a citizen without considering the significance of the duty. The
> true source of right is duty...
> …
> 58\. Out of the aforestated requirements, the requirements of existence of
> sufficient ground and need for immediate prevention or speedy remedy is of
> prime significance. In this context, the perception of the officer recording
> the desired/contemplated satisfaction has to be reasonable, least invasive
> and bona fide. The restraint has to be reasonable and further must be
> minimal. Such restraint should not be allowed to exceed the constraints of
> the particular situation either in nature or in duration.
The most onerous duty that is cast upon the  107 empowered officer by the
legislature is that the perception of threat to public peace and tranquillity
should be real and not quandary, imaginary or a mere likely possibility.”
(emphasis supplied)
126\. As discussed above, the decisions of this Court in the Modern Dental
College case (supra) and K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar­ 5J.) case (supra), which
brought the concept of proportionality into the fold, equally apply to an
order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
127\. The Petitioners also contended that orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C., imposing restrictions, cannot be a subject matter of privilege.
Moreover, material facts must be recorded in the order itself. On the other
hand, the learned Solicitor General argued that the empowered officers were in
the best position to know the situation on the ground and accordingly the
aforesaid orders were passed. There existed sufficient speculation on the
ground to suggest abrogation of Article 370, and the respective Magistrates,
being aware of the circumstances, imposed the aforesaid restrictions in a
periodic manner, indicating due application of mind. The learned Solicitor
General further argued  108 that this Court cannot sit in appeal over the
order passed by the magistrate, particularly when there is no imputation of
mala fide.
128\. To put a quietus to the aforesaid issue it is pertinent to reproduce and
rely on a relevant extract from the Ramlila Maidan Incident, In re case
(supra):
> “56. Moreover, an order under Section 144 CrPC being an order which has a
> direct consequence of placing a restriction on the right to freedom of
> speech and expression and right to assemble peaceably, should be an order in
> writing and based upon material facts of the case. This would be the
> requirement of law for more than one reason. Firstly, it is an order placing
> a restriction upon the fundamental rights of a citizen and, thus, may
> adversely affect the interests of the parties, and secondly, under the
> provisions of CrPC, such an order is revisable and is subject to judicial
> review.
Therefore, it will be appropriate that it must be an order in writing,
referring to the facts and stating the reasons for imposition of such
restriction. In Praveen Bhai Thogadia [(2004) 4 SCC 684: 2004 SCC (Cri) 1387],
this Court took the view that the Court, while dealing with such orders, does
not act like an appellate authority over the decision of the official
concerned. It would interfere only where the order is patently illegal and
without jurisdiction or with ulterior motive and on extraneous consideration
of political victimisation by those in power. Normally,  109 interference
should be the exception and not the rule.” (emphasis supplied)
129\. We may note that orders passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. have direct
consequences upon the fundamental rights of the public in general. Such a
power, if used in a casual and cavalier manner, would result in severe
illegality. This power should be used responsibly, only as a measure to
preserve law and order. The order is open to judicial review, so that any
person aggrieved by such an action can always approach the appropriate forum
and challenge the same. But, the aforesaid means of judicial review will stand
crippled if the order itself is unreasoned or un­notified. This Court, in the
case of Babulal Parate (supra), also stressed upon the requirement of having
the order in writing, wherein it is clearly indicated that opinion formed by
the Magistrate was based upon the material facts of the case. This Court held
as under:
> “9. Sub­section (1) confers powers not on the executive but on certain
> Magistrates…Under sub­section (1) the Magistrate himself has to form an
> opinion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding under this section
> 110 and immediate prevention or speedy remedy is desirable. Again the
> sub­section requires the Magistrate to make an order in writing and state
> therein the material facts by reason of which he is making the order
> thereunder. The sub­section further enumerates the particular activities
> with regard to which the Magistrate is entitled to place restraints.”
> (emphasis supplied)
130\. While passing orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C., it is imperative to
indicate the material facts necessitating passing of such orders. Normally, it
should be invoked and confined to a particular area or some particular issues.
However, in the present case, it is contended by the Petitioners that the
majority of the geographical area of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir
was placed under orders passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. and the passing of
these orders need to be looked at in this perspective. In response, it is the
case of the Respondent, although it has not been stated in clear terms, that
it is an issue of national security and cross border terrorism. Before we
part, we need to caution against the excessive utility of the proportionality
doctrine in the matters of national security, sovereignty and integrity.
111
131\. Although, the Respondents submitted that this Court cannot sit in appeal
or review the orders passed by the executive, particularly those pertaining to
law and order situation, the scope of judicial review with respect to law and
order issues has been settled by this Court. In State of Karnataka v. Dr.
Praveen Bhai Thogadia, (2004) 4 SCC 684, this Court observed, specifically in
the context of Section 144, Cr.P.C., as follows:
> “6. Courts should not normally interfere with matters relating to law and
> order which is primarily the domain of the administrative authorities
> concerned. They are by and large the best to assess and to handle the
> situation depending upon the peculiar needs and necessities within their
> special knowledge. …… Therefore, whenever the authorities concerned in
> charge of law and order find that a person’s speeches or actions are likely
> to trigger communal antagonism and hatred resulting in fissiparous
> tendencies gaining foothold, undermining and affecting communal harmony,
> prohibitory orders need necessarily to be passed, to effectively avert such
> untoward happenings.
7... If they feel that the presence or participation of any person in the
meeting or congregation would be objectionable, for some patent or latent
reasons as well as the past track record of such happenings in other places
involving such participants, necessary prohibitory orders can be passed. Quick
decisions and swift as well as effective action  112 necessitated in such
cases may not justify or permit the authorities to give prior opportunity or
consideration at length of the pros and cons. The imminent need to intervene
instantly, having regard to the sensitivity and perniciously perilous
consequences it may result in if not prevented forthwith, cannot be lost sight
of. The valuable and cherished right of freedom of expression and speech may
at times have to be subjected to reasonable subordination to social interests,
needs and necessities to preserve the very core of democratic life ­
preservation of public order and rule of law. At some such grave situation at
least the decision as to the need and necessity to take prohibitory actions
must be left to the discretion of those entrusted with the duty of maintaining
law and order, and interposition of courts unless a concrete case of abuse or
exercise of such sweeping powers for extraneous considerations by the
authority concerned or that such authority was shown to act at the behest of
those in power, and interference as a matter of course and as though
adjudicating an appeal, will defeat the very purpose of legislation and
legislative intent…” (emphasis supplied)
132\. It is true that we do not sit in appeal, however, the existence of the
power of judicial review is undeniable. We are of the opinion that it is for
the Magistrate and the State to make an informed judgement about the likely
threat to public peace and law and  113 order. The State is best placed to
make an assessment of threat to public peace and tranquillity or law and
order. However, the law requires them to state the material facts for invoking
this power. This will enable judicial scrutiny and a verification of whether
there are sufficient facts to justify the invocation of this power.
133\. In a situation where fundamental rights of the citizens are being
curtailed, the same cannot be done through an arbitrary exercise of power;
rather it should be based on objective facts. The preventive/remedial measures
under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should be based on the type of exigency, extent of
territoriality, nature of restriction and the duration of the same. In a
situation of urgency, the authority is required to satisfy itself of such
material to base its opinion on for the immediate imposition of restrictions
or measures which are preventive/remedial. However, if the authority is to
consider imposition of restrictions over a larger territorial area or for a
longer duration, the threshold requirement is relatively higher.
134\. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should be indicative of
proper application of mind, which should be based on the  114 material facts
and the remedy directed. Proper reasoning links the application of mind of the
officer concerned, to the controversy involved and the conclusion reached.
Orders passed mechanically or in a cryptic manner cannot be said to be orders
passed in accordance with law.
135\. During the course of hearing, on 26.11.2019, the learned Solicitor
General sought the permission of this Court to produce certain confidential
documents to be perused by this Court. However, he objected to revealing
certain documents to the Petitioners, claiming sensitivity and
confidentiality. Learned senior counsel Mr. Kapil Sibal stated that the Court
could assume the existence of such intelligence inputs and materials. In view
of such stand, we have not gone into the adequacy of the material placed
before this Court; rather, we have presumed existence of the same.
136\. One of the important criteria to test the reasonableness of such a
measure is to see if the aggrieved person has the right to make a
representation against such a restriction. It is a fundamental principle of
law that no party can be deprived of his liberty without being afforded a
fair, adequate and reasonable opportunity of hearing. Therefore, in a
situation where the order  115 is silent on the material facts, the person
aggrieved cannot effectively challenge the same. Resultantly, there exists no
effective mechanism to judicially review the same. [See State of Bihar v.
Kamla Kant Misra, (1969) 3 SCC 337]. In light of the same, it is imperative
for the State to make such orders public so as to make the right available
under Section 144(5), Cr.P.C. a practical reality.
137\. One thing to remember is that no mala fide has been alleged by the
Petitioners. It was not denied by the Petitioners that the State has the power
to pass such restrictive order. Additionally, the Respondents contended that
the historical background of the State­ cross border terrorism, infiltration
of militants, security issues, etc., cannot be forgotten and must be kept in
mind while testing the legality of the orders. Further, the Respondent
submitted that the orders were passed in the aforementioned context and in the
anticipated threat to law and order, to prevent any loss of life, limb and
property. However, these orders do not explain the aforesaid aspects.
138\. Although the restrictions have been allegedly removed on 27.09.2019,
thereby rendering the present exercise into a  116 virtually academic one, we
cannot ignore non­compliance of law by the State. As learned senior counsel
Mr. Kapil Sibal submitted, this case is not just about the past or what has
happened in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir, but also about the
future, where this Court has to caution the Government. Hence, we direct that
the authorities must follow the principles laid down by this Court and uphold
the rule of law.
139\. It is contended by the Petitioners that while the Respondents stated
that there are no prohibitory orders during the day and there are certain
restrictions in certain areas during the night, on the ground, the situation
is different as the police is still restricting the movement of the people
even during the day. If that is so, it is not proper and correct for the State
to resort to such type of acts. A Government, if it thinks that there is a
threat to the law and order situation or any other such requirement, must
follow the procedure laid down by law, taking into consideration the rights of
the citizens, and pass appropriate need­based orders. In view of the same,
appropriate directions are provided in the operative part of this judgment.
140\. Before parting we summarise the legal position on Section 144, Cr.P.C as
follows:
117
i. The power under Section 144, Cr.P.C., being remedial as well as preventive,
is exercisable not only where there exists present danger, but also when there
is an apprehension of danger. However, the danger contemplated should be in
the nature of an “emergency” and for the purpose of preventing obstruction and
annoyance or injury to any person lawfully employed. ii. The power under
Section 144, Cr.P.C cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of
opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights.
iii. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material
facts to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in
a bona fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on
the material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable
judicial scrutiny of the aforesaid order.
iv. While exercising the power under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and restrictions based on
the principles of proportionality and thereafter apply the least intrusive
measure.  118 v. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C. would be an
abuse of power.
H. FREEDOM OF THE PRESS
141\. The Petitioner in W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019 has filed the petition
basing her contention on the following factual premise, as averred:
> 13\. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1031 of 2019 was filed on 10­08­2019 under
> Article 32 of the Constitution of India by the Executive Editor of the
> newspaper “Kashmir Times”, which publishes two editions daily, one from
> Jammu and another from Srinagar. The English newspaper, Kashmir Times, was
> founded in 1954 as a news weekly. It was later converted to a daily
> newspaper in 1962 and has regularly been in print and circulation ever
> since. Kashmir Times is a widely read English newspaper in Jammu and
> Kashmir, and also has significant readership in the neighbouring States of
> Punjab, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh.
> 14\. On 04­08­2019, sometime during the day, mobile phone networks, internet
> services, and landline phones were all discontinued in the Kashmir valley
> and in some districts of Jammu and Ladakh. No formal orders under which such
> action was taken by the Respondents were communicated to the affected
> population, including the residents of the Kashmir Valley.
This meant that the people of Kashmir were plunged into a communication
blackhole and an information blackout. The actions of the  119 respondents
have had a debilitating and crippling effect on newsgathering, reporting,
publication, circulation and information dissemination, and have also resulted
in freezing of web portals and news websites.
15\. From the morning of 05­08­2019, with a heavy military presence,
barricades and severance of all communication links, the state of Jammu and
Kashmir was placed under de facto curfew. At the same time, on 05­08­ 2019,
the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) order, 2019, C.O. 272 was
published in The Gazette of India, vide which under the powers vested by
Article 370(1) of the Constitution of India, Article 367(4) was added to the
Constitution. Also on 05­08­ 2019, the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill,
2019, was introduced in the Rajya Sabha, and passed. On 06­08­2019, the said
Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha. The President’s assent was given to the Bill
on 09­08­2019. The Gazette Notification, dt. 09­08­2019 states that the Jammu
and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, will come into effect from 31 st
October, 2019, and that there shall be a new Union Territory of Jammu and
Kashmir. All of this was carried out while the State of Jammu and Kashmir was
in a lockdown and silenced through a communication shutdown.
16\. In such Circumstances the Kashmir Times’ Srinagar edition could not be
distributed on 05­08­2019 and it could not be published thereafter from
06­08­2019 to 11­10­2019, as newspaper publication necessarily requires news
gathering by reporters traveling across the Valley and unhindered interaction
with public and officials. Due to the indiscriminate lockdown­including
communication and internet blackout­ and severe curbs on  120 movement
enforced by the respondents, the Petitioner was prevented and hindered from
carrying out her profession and work. Even after 11­10­2019 only a truncated
copy of the newspaper is being published because of the severe restrictions in
place even today (internet services and SMS services are completely shut down
even after 115 days). The new portal/website is frozen till date.
142\. There is no doubt that the importance of the press is well established
under Indian Law. The freedom of the press is a requirement in any democratic
society for its effective functioning. The first case which dealt with the
freedom of the press can be traced back to Channing Arnold v. The Emperor,
(1914) 16 Bom LR 544, wherein the Privy Council stated that:
> “36. The freedom of the journalist is an ordinary part of the freedom of the
> subject and to whatever length, the subject in general may go, so also may
> the journalist, but apart from the statute law his privilege is no other and
> no higher. The range of his assertions, his criticisms or his comments is as
> wide as, and no wider than that of any other subject.”
143\. During the drafting of our Constitution, B. N. Rau, while commenting on
the amendments by Jaya Prakash Narayan, who had proposed a separate freedom of
press, had commented in the following manner:
121 “It is hardly necessary to provide specifically for the freedom of the
press as freedom of expression provided in sub­clause (a) of clause (1) of
article 13 will include freedom of the press...”
144\. Thereafter, many judgments of this Court including Bennett Coleman v.
Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 788, Indian Express (supra), Sakal Papers (P)
Ltd. v. Union of India, [1962] 3 SCR 842 have expounded on the right of
freedom of press and have clearly enunciated the importance of the aforesaid
rights in modern society. In view of the same, there is no doubt that freedom
of the press needs to be considered herein while dealing with the issue of the
case at hand.
145\. From the aforesaid factual averment, we may note that the Petitioner in
W.P. (C) No. 1031 of 2019, with respect to the present issue, does not impugn
any specific order of the government restricting the freedom of the press or
restricting the content of the press. The allegation of the aforementioned
Petitioner is that the cumulative effect of various other restrictions, such
as the imposition of Section 144, Cr.P.C. and restriction on internet and
communication, has indirectly affected the freedom of the press in the valley.
122
146\. There is no doubt that the freedom of the press is a valuable and sacred
right enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. This right is
required in any modern democracy without which there cannot be transfer of
information or requisite discussion for a democratic society. Squarely
however, the contention of the Petitioner rests on the chilling effects
alleged to be produced by the imposition of restrictions as discussed above.
147\. Chilling effect has been utilized in Indian Jurisprudence as a fairly
recent concept. Its presence in the United States of America can be traced to
the decision in Weiman v. Updgraff, 344 U.S.
183\. We may note that the argument of chilling effect has been utilized in
various contexts, from being purely an emotive argument to a substantive
component under the free speech adjudication. The usage of the aforesaid
principle is chiefly adopted for impugning an action of the State, which may
be constitutional, but which imposes a great burden on the free speech. We may
note that the argument of chilling effect, if not tempered judicially, would
result in a “self­proclaiming instrument”.
123
148\. The principle of chilling effect was utilized initially in a limited
context, that a person could be restricted from exercising his protected right
due to the ambiguous nature of an overbroad statute. In this regard, the
chilling effect was restricted to the analysis of the First Amendment right.
The work of Frederick Schauer provides a detailed analysis in his seminal work
on the First Amendment.22 This analysis was replicated in the context of
privacy and internet usage in a regulatory set up by Daniel J. Solove. These
panopticon concerns have been accepted in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy
(Privacy­9J.) (supra).
149\. We need to concern ourselves herein as to theoretical question of
drawing lines as to when a regulation stops short of impinging upon free
speech. A regulatory legislation will have a direct or indirect impact on
various rights of different degrees. Individual rights cannot be viewed as
silos, rather they should be viewed in a cumulative manner which may be
affected in different ways. The technical rule of causal link cannot be made
applicable in the case of human rights. Human rights are an inherent feature
of every human and there is no question of the State not 22 Frederick Schauer,
Fear, Risk and the First Amendment: Unraveling the Chilling Effect (1978).
124 providing for these rights. In one sense, the restrictions provided under
Article 19(2) of the Constitution follow a utilitarian approach wherein
individualism gives way for commonality of benefit, if such restrictions are
required and demanded by law. In this context, the test of ‘direct impact’ as
laid down in A.K Gopalan v. State of Madras, AIR 1950 SC 27, has been
subsequently widened in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India, 1970 (1) SCC
248, wherein the test of ‘direct and inevitable consequence’ was propounded.
As this is not a case wherein a detailed analysis of chilling effect is
required for the reasons given below, we leave the question of law open as to
the appropriate standard for establishing causal link in a challenge based on
chilling effect.
150\. The widening of the ‘chilling effect doctrine’ has always been viewed
with judicial scepticism. At this juncture, we may note the decision in Laird
v. Tantum, 408 U.S. 1 (1972), wherein the respondent brought an action against
the authorities to injunct them from conducting surveillance of lawful and
peaceful civilian political activity, based on the chilling effect doctrine.
The United States Supreme Court, in its majority decision, dismissed the  125
plea of the respondent on the ground of lack of evidence to establish such a
claim. The Court observed that:
> “Allegations of a subjective "chill" are not an adequate substitute for a
> claim of specific present objective harm or a threat of specific future
> harm.” Therefore, to say that the aforesaid restrictions were
> unconstitutional because it has a chilling effect on the freedom of press
> generally is to say virtually nothing at all or is saying something that is
> purely speculative, unless evidence is brought before the Court to enable it
> to give a clear finding, which has not been placed on record in the present
> case. [refer to Clapper v Amnesty Int’l, USA, 568 U.S. 113 (2013)]
151\. In this context, one possible test of chilling effect is comparative
harm. In this frame­work, the Court is required to see whether the impugned
restrictions, due to their broad­based nature, have had a restrictive effect
on similarly placed individuals during the period. It is the contention of the
Petitioner that she was not able to publish her newspaper from 06­08­2019 to
11­10­2019. However, no evidence was put forth to establish that such other
individuals were also restricted in publishing newspapers in the  126 area.
Without such evidence having been placed on record, it would be impossible to
distinguish a legitimate claim of chilling effect from a mere emotive argument
for a self­serving purpose. On the other hand, the learned Solicitor General
has submitted that there were other newspapers which were running during the
aforesaid time period. In view of these facts, and considering that the
aforesaid Petitioner has now resumed publication, we do not deem it fit to
indulge more in the issue than to state that responsible Governments are
required to respect the freedom of the press at all times. Journalists are to
be accommodated in reporting and there is no justification for allowing a
sword of Damocles to hang over the press indefinitely.
I. CONCLUSION
152\. In this view, we issue the following directions:
> a. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to publish all
> orders in force and any future orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C and for
> suspension of telecom services, including internet, to enable the affected
> persons to challenge it before the High Court or appropriate forum.
b. We declare that the freedom of speech and expression and the freedom to
practice any profession or carry on any trade, business or occupation over the
medium of internet enjoys constitutional protection under Article 19(1)(a) and
Article 19(1)(g). The restriction upon such fundamental  127 rights should be
in consonance with the mandate under Article 19 (2) and (6) of the
Constitution, inclusive of the test of proportionality.
c. An order suspending internet services indefinitely is impermissible under
the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public
Service) Rules, 2017. Suspension can be utilized for temporary duration only.
d. Any order suspending internet issued under the Suspension Rules, must
adhere to the principle of proportionality and must not extend beyond
necessary duration. e. Any order suspending internet under the Suspension
Rules is subject to judicial review based on the parameters set out herein.
f. The existing Suspension Rules neither provide for a periodic review nor a
time limitation for an order issued under the Suspension Rules. Till this gap
is filled, we direct that the Review Committee constituted under Rule 2(5) of
the Suspension Rules must conduct a periodic review within seven working days
of the previous review, in terms of the requirements under Rule 2(6).
g. We direct the respondent State/competent authorities to review all orders
suspending internet services forthwith. h. Orders not in accordance with the
law laid down above, must be revoked. Further, in future, if there is a
necessity to pass fresh orders, the law laid down herein must be followed.
i. In any case, the State/concerned authorities are directed to consider
forthwith allowing government websites, localized/limited e­banking
facilities, hospitals services and  128 other essential services, in those
regions, wherein the internet services are not likely to be restored
immediately. j. The power under Section 144, Cr.P.C., being remedial as well
as preventive, is exercisable not only where there exists present danger, but
also when there is an apprehension of danger. However, the danger contemplated
should be in the nature of an “emergency” and for the purpose of preventing
obstruction and annoyance or injury to any person lawfully employed.
k. The power under Section 144, Cr.P.C cannot be used to suppress legitimate
expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights.
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
(N.V. RAMANA) ..............................................J.
(R. SUBHASH REDDY) ..............................................J.
(B. R. GAVAI) NEW DELHI;
JANUARY 10, 2020  130
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
     Contentions                                                                  B
     Issues                                                                       C
     Production of Orders                                                         D
     Fundamental Rights under Part III and restrictions                           E
     thereof
    Signature Not Verified
    Digitally signed by
     Internet Shutdown                                                            F
    GEETA AHUJA
    Date: 2020.01.10
    12:44:27 IST
    Reason:
     Restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.                                      G
                                                                                         1
     Freedom of the Press                                        H
     Conclusion                                                  I
    N. V. RAMANA, J.
        A. INTRODUCTION
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
     Contentions                                                                  B
     Issues                                                                       C
     Production of Orders                                                         D
     Fundamental Rights under Part III and restrictions                           E
     thereof
    Signature Not Verified
    Digitally signed by
     Internet Shutdown                                                            F
    GEETA AHUJA
    Date: 2020.01.10
    12:44:27 IST
    Reason:
     Restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.                                      G
                                                                                         1
     Freedom of the Press                                        H
     Conclusion                                                  I
    N. V. RAMANA, J.
        A. INTRODUCTION
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
     Contentions                                                                  B
     Issues                                                                       C
     Production of Orders                                                         D
     Fundamental Rights under Part III and restrictions                           E
     thereof
    Signature Not Verified
    Digitally signed by
     Internet Shutdown                                                            F
    GEETA AHUJA
    Date: 2020.01.10
    12:44:27 IST
    Reason:
     Restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.                                      G
                                                                                         1
     Freedom of the Press                                        H
     Conclusion                                                  I
    N. V. RAMANA, J.
        A. INTRODUCTION
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the
epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of
Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had
everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to
Heaven, we were all going direct the other way­ in short, the period was so
far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on
its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of
comparison only.” ­Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities  2
1\. Although cherished in our heart as a “Paradise on Earth”, the history of
this beautiful land is etched with violence and militancy. While the mountains
of Himalayas spell tranquillity, yet blood is shed every day. In this land of
inherent contradictions, these petitions add to the list, wherein two sides
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
     Contentions                                                                  B
     Issues                                                                       C
     Production of Orders                                                         D
     Fundamental Rights under Part III and restrictions                           E
     thereof
    Signature Not Verified
    Digitally signed by
     Internet Shutdown                                                            F
    GEETA AHUJA
    Date: 2020.01.10
    12:44:27 IST
    Reason:
     Restrictions under Section 144, Cr.P.C.                                      G
                                                                                         1
     Freedom of the Press                                        H
     Conclusion                                                  I
    N. V. RAMANA, J.
        A. INTRODUCTION
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the
epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of
Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had
everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to
Heaven, we were all going direct the other way­ in short, the period was so
far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on
its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of
comparison only.” ­Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities  2
1\. Although cherished in our heart as a “Paradise on Earth”, the history of
this beautiful land is etched with violence and militancy. While the mountains
of Himalayas spell tranquillity, yet blood is shed every day. In this land of
inherent contradictions, these petitions add to the list, wherein two sides
l. An order passed under Section 144, Cr.P.C. should state the material facts
to enable judicial review of the same. The power should be exercised in a bona
fide and reasonable manner, and the same should be passed by relying on the
material facts, indicative of application of mind. This will enable judicial
scrutiny of the aforesaid order. m.While exercising the power under Section
144, Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is duty bound to balance the rights and
restrictions based on the principles of proportionality and thereafter, apply
the least intrusive measure. n. Repetitive orders under Section 144, Cr.P.C.
would be an abuse of power.
o. The Respondent State/competent authorities are directed to review forthwith
the need for continuance of any existing orders passed under Section 144,
Cr.P.C in accordance with law laid down above.
129
153\. The Writ Petitions are disposed of in the afore­stated terms. All
pending applications are also accordingly disposed of.
..............................................J.
