Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Chennai
Gamesa Renewable Private ... vs Dcit, Chennai on 13 November, 2017
               आयकर अपील
    य अ धकरण, 'डी'  यायपीठ, चे नई
               IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                        "D" BENCH, CHENNAI
             ी चं  पज
                    ू ार
    , लेखा सद य एवं  ी ध"ु व#
                                                 ु आर.एल रे $डी,
                           या%यक सद य के सम'
         BEFORE SHRI CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
            AND SHRI DUVVURU RL REDDY, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                 आयकर अपील सं./ITA Nos. 1420 & 376/Mds/2017
                 नधा रण वष  /Assessment Years : 2011-12 & 2012-13
     M/s. Siemens Gamesa                     The Deputy Commissioner of
    Renewable Power Pvt. Ltd.,         v.    Income-tax,
    No.334, Futura Tech Park,                Corporate Circle-2(1),
    8th floor, Block-B, Rajiv Gandhi         Chennai.
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
    Chennai - 600 119.
    PAN AACCG6027C
    (अपीलाथ /Appellant)                      (  यथ /Respondent)
अपीलाथ क ओर /Appellant by : Shri B.Ramakrishnan, FCA & Shri S. Dwarakesh, ACS
यथ क ओर से/Respondent by : Smt. Vijayalakshmi, CIT,D.R सन ु वाई क तार ख/Date
of Hearing : 16.08.2017 घोषणा क तार ख/Date of Pronouncement: 13.11.2017 आदे श
/O R D E R PER CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER These two appeal are filed
by the assessee, aggrieved by the order of the ld. Assessing Officer, Chennai,
passed u/s.143(3) read with sec.144C(1) of the Act pursuant to the order  2 of
the T.P.O, Chennai and the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution
Panel-2, (D.R.P-2), Bangalore, (DRP) under sec.144C(5) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, for the assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13
2\. The first common issue in these two appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of payment of royalty to Associated Enterprises (AEs) on
the reason that the royalty payment is in excess of limits prescribed under
the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
3\. The brief facts of the case are that Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt.
Ltd.,(formerly known as 'Gamesa Renewable Private Limited') ('Gamesa India' or
'the assessee') is an Indian company engaged in the business of manufacture of
renewable energy equipments like Wind Energy Generation ('WEG', commonly known
as 'windmills') and Solar Power Generators. The assessee provides turnkey
solutions to its customers which includes the following activities:
> a) Undertaking preliminary activities such as identifying land, obtaining
> approvals for developing wind farms
> b) Manufacture and sale of WEGs  3
> c) Erection and commissioning of WEGs
> d) Operation & Maintenance of wind turbine generators 3.1 The facts of the
> issue as narrated in the assessment year 2012-13 are that the assessee
> maintained the documentation as required under the Rule 10D of the I.T
> Rules, 1962 with respect to international transaction for the financial year
> 2011-12. The assessee is engaged in manufacturing and assembly of wind
> turbines, wind farm development, erection and commissioning and operations &
> maintenance of wind turbines. Based on the Functional Asset and Risk
> Analysis (FAR) and the economic analysis, the Transactional Net Margin
> Method (TNMM) had been considered as the most appropriate method under the
> Indian transfer pricing regulations, for analyzing the arm's length nature
> of these international transactions between Gamesa India and it's A.Es. The
> assessee conducted a common analysis for the international transactions
> involving purchase of raw materials and components, purchase of
> manufacturing tools, payment for royalty and management fee as these
> transactions are inextricably linked to the assembly, erection and
> installation function performed by Gamesa India. In the transfer pricing  4
> study report, the assessee considered TNMM as the most appropriate method.
> The TPO in his order has remarked that the PLI of the comparables works out
> to (-1.53) percent as against the PLI of the assessee (-0.37 percent).
> Further, the assessee submitted before the TPO that if the economic
> adjustments and extra-ordinary costs are factored, the PLI of the assessee
> works out to 4.40%. Thus, it was concluded that Gamesa India's international
> transactions with AEs was consistent with the arm's length standard from an
> Indian transfer pricing regulations perspective.
3.2 The assessee entered into Technology Transfer Agreements with Gamesa
Innovation and Technology SL Unipersonal ('Gamesa Spain') dated 1st January
2009 and 11th July 2011 for availing technology in relation to AE 59 and G 97
models respectively. As per the agreements, Gamesa India would pay royalty at
the rate of 4 percent and 4.50 percent respectively on Net Annual Turnover.
The assessee has also considered CUP as alternate method for benchmarking the
royalty transaction. The assessee has considered certain comparables
agreements and the arithmetic mean of the royalty  5 as per the comparable
agreements amount to 6.43 percent. Given that the rate of royalty as per the
comparable transactions is higher than the royalty paid by the assessee, the
transaction has been regarded as within arm's length price. During the course
of transfer pricing assessment proceedings, the TPO re- computed the Arm's
Length Price(ALP) of royalty and proposed downward adjustment in the following
manner :
          S.No.   Particulars                                 Amount (₹ )
          1       Development revenue                          1,98,92,236
          2       Royalty on Erection & Commissioning          3,99,55,152
          3       Imported & bought out components            33,10,48,591
                  Total                                       39,08,95,979
The TPO contended that no technology is required for development of wind-farm,
erection and commissioning activities.
3.3 Further, the TPO questioned why imported bought- out components should not
be reduced from turnover and applied the rate of royalty on net turnover. In
this regard, the TPO mentioned that under the provisions of the Foreign
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA), no royalty can be paid on bought out
components. With respect to adoption of CUP as alternate method, the TPO
remarked that he is not  6 inclined to accept the supplementary benchmarking
done to prove the ALP of royalty on the ground that the database and copies of
the agreements of comparables are not available for verification. In this
regard, it is pertinent to note that the TPO has not disputed the said
position in the preceding year and in the show cause notice for the subject
assessment year. The DRP has upheld the adjustment made by the TPO in this
regard without appreciating the submissions of the assessee. Against this, the
assessee is in appeal before us.
4\. The ld. AR submitted that there is no transfer pricing adjustment in a
scenario where the transactions are at Arm's Length in accordance with the
method prescribed under Rule 10B. Without prejudice to the above, he submitted
that technology is required even in respect of other activities such as
development of wind farm and erection and commissioning. The ld. AR submitted
that the action of the TPO in proposing transfer pricing adjustment is not
tenable on account of the submissions provided by the assessee.
4.1 Further, the ld. AR submitted that in the transfer pricing study, the
assessee considered TNMM as the most appropriate  7 method. For the subject
assessment years, the PLI of the assessee is higher as compared to the
comparable companies. Further, the assessee considered CUP as the most
appropriate method and contended that average rate of royalty as per
comparable agreements is higher as compared to the subject royalty rate.
Therefore, the assessee arrived at a conclusion that the royalty paid to its
AE is at ALP. The assessee submitted that technology is a critical factor for
undertaking its operations and therefore, royalty expenditure is inextricably
linked to its business. The determination of ALP of royalty on a standalone is
basis in the first place. The TPO has erred in not appreciating the basis fact
that royalty is inextricably linked to business of the assessee and therefore,
benchmarking the PLI at entity level is sufficient in order to substantiate
that the transactions with AE are at arm's length. Without prejudice to the
above submission, the assessee has undertaken supplementary benchmarking under
CUP method thereby considering the royalty rate of uncontrolled transactions
as well and substantiated that the average rate of royalty in respect of
uncontrolled transactions was at 6.43 percent which is higher than the rate of
royalty paid  8 by the assessee to its AE (4 / 4.50 percent), that was not
appreciated by the TPO and DRP as well. Further, it was submitted that the
methodology adopted by the TPO is not in accordance with any of the methods
prescribed in Rule 10B of the Rules and the action of the TPO is beyond his
jurisdiction as provided in the law. The ld. AR relied on the following
decisions, wherein it has been held that where the PLI of the assessee is
determined under TNMM, a separate analysis and consequent deletion of royalty
/ technical fee payment is unwarranted:
> 1\. Magneti Marelli Powertrain India (P) Ltd. vs DCIT (389 ITR 469) (Delhi)
> 2\. DCIT vs. Air Liquide Engineering India (P) Ltd. (43 Taxmann.com
> 299(Hyd.)
> 3\. Daksh Business Process Services (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT (Delhi-ITAT)
> 2666/Del./2014)
> 4\. ACIT vs. Sakata Inx (India) Ltd. (Jaipur-ITAT) (ITA No.376/Jaipur/2012)
> 4.2 The ld. AR submitted that the transactions entered into by the assessee
> with its AE are at arm's length under the methods prescribed under Rule 10B
> of the Rules and the TPO has no jurisdiction to identify any method which is
> not prescribed under the aforesaid Rules. To support his view, the ld. AR
> relied on the  9 following decisions, wherein it has been held that the TPO
> has no jurisdiction to apply any method other than those prescribed under
> the Rules.
1\. DCIT vs. Diebold Software Services (P) Ltd. [151 ITD 463]
2\. Merck Ltd. vs. DCIT [148 ITD 513] 4.3 Regarding the jurisdiction of the AO
and the TPO to determine the commercial expediency of the assessee, it was
submitted by the ld. AR that under the provisions of sec.92CA of the Act, the
TPO is vested with the power to determine the ALP, which needs to be computed
in accordance with the methods prescribed. The TPO has remarked that the
assessee has not substantiated the necessity for use of technology in relation
to wind farm development and erection and commissioning activities. According
to the ld. AR, business transactions of the assessee taken place in the
ordinary course cannot be questioned by the TPO and he placed reliance on the
judgment of the Delhi High Court in the case of Hive Communication (P) Ltd.
vs. CIT (353 ITR 200) wherein the Court in the context of sec.40A(2) has
clearly held that while examining the reasonableness of an expenditure, the
Assessing Office is  10 expected to exercise his conclusion in a reasonable
and fair manner. It should be borne in mind that the provision is meant to
check evasion of tax through excessive or unreasonable payments to relatives
and associate concerns and should not be applied in a manner which will cause
hardship in bona fide cases. The ld. AR, also placed reliance on the judgment
of the Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. EKL Appliances Ltd., (345 ITR
241) wherein it has been held that it is not necessary for the assessee to
show that any legitimate expenditure incurred by him was also incurred out of
necessity. In addition, the Court held that it is also not necessary for the
assessee to show that any expenditure incurred by him for the purpose of
business carried on by him has actually resulted in profit or income either in
the same year or in any of the subsequent years.
4.4 Further, the ld. AR, relied on the judgment of the Madras High Court in
the case of CIT vs. Computer Graphics Ltd.,(155 Taxman 612) wherein it was
held that the reasonableness of the expenditure for the purpose of business
had to be adjudged from the view point of a businessman and not that of the
Revenue,  11 even while invoking sec.40A(2) of the Act. The ld. AR, also
placed reliance on the decision of the Tribunal, Delhi Bench, in the case of
Showa India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT ( ITA No.166/Del./2013) wherein it was held that
where the assessee company has provided the details of royalty and technical
assistance fees paid to AE, it cannot be said that the assessee would be
competent to make use of such machinery without the support of the AE and
according to the ld. AR, the TPO cannot determine the ALP of any transaction
merely based on assumptions. The ld. AR submitted that the TPO does not extend
to stepping into the shoes of the assessee and determining the necessity of
incurrence of expenditure and the commercial expediency of a transaction has
to be evaluated from the assessee's stand point and not from Revenue's
standpoint. Therefore, the ld. AR, submitted that the contention of the TPO
that no technology is required for wind farm development and erection and
commissioning activities is unwarranted.
4.5 Without prejudice to the above submissions, the ld. AR submitted that for
the subject A.Ys. there is no such restriction  12 on payment of royalty on
bought out components under the provisions of FEMA on the reasons that as per
erstwhile Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules,
2000, any remittance under technical collaboration agreement to the extent of
5% on local sales and 8% on exports was permitted without any prior approval
of RBI. Further, it was submitted that the aforesaid ceiling on payment of
royalty has been lifted with effect from 16th December, 2009 and for the
subject A.Y., there was no restriction on payment of royalty vide Circular and
Notification issued by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, there is no
requirement for such approval with reference to 16th December 2009. Therefore,
according to the ld. AR, the action of the TPO in proposing transfer pricing
adjustment thereby relying on the provisions of FEMA is in appropriate in the
first place. Further, the ld. AR submitted that the TPO relied on the
'Standard conditions attached to automatic approvals for Foreign Investment &
Technology Agreement', which emphasizes for calculation of royalty on the
basis of net ex-factory sale price of products excluding the excise duty and
other taxes, cost of standard bought out components and landed cost of
imported  13 components etc. and relying on the conditions, the TPO held that
no royalty is permissible under the provisions of FEMA in respect of bought
out components. According to the ld. AR, standard conditions form part of Form
FC-SIA, which has been withdrawn by RBI, have no relevance for these subject
A.Ys. and reliance on the standard conditions by the TPO is baseless. 4.6 The
ld. AR further submitted that the rate of royalty prescribed under the
provisions of FEMA cannot be regarded as ALP for transfer pricing purposes. To
support his view, the ld. AR, relied on the following decisions:
1\. Oracle India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT [386 ITR 1](Delhi)
2\. Gruner India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT[ITA No.6794 of 2015-Delhi, ITAT]
3\. A.W.Faber Castell (India) (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT [ITA No.1027 of 2017-
Mumbai, ITAT] The ld. AR submitted that in the case of A.W.Faber Castell
(India) (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT, supra, pertaining to the A.Y. 2012-13 referred to
the Press Note No.8 of 2009 and upheld the twin principles as follows :
• A perusal of the aforesaid notification shows that the Government of India
has now waived all the restrictions on payment of royalty under foreign
technology collaboration  14 and put the same under automatic route. Since
there are no restrictions on payment of royalty by the Government of India,
therefore, any amount paid by assessee on account of royalty would ipso-facto
be its 'ALP' also.
• Both the legislations operate into different fields. The rates allowed under
the automatic route by the RBI or FIPB are meant to achieve objectives in
different areas. The whole thrust of the income tax proceedings and transfer
pricing regulations is to ensure that taxable profit earned by an entity India
are not shifted to foreign tax jurisdiction without payment of legitimate
share of tax due in India. Therefore, according to the ld. AR, the transfer
pricing adjustment proposed by the TPO on the ground that the royalty payment
is not within the limits prescribed under FEMA purposes is not tenable.
4.7 The ld. AR, further submitted that the TPO has no jurisdiction to
interpret the provisions of FEMA. In other words, the issue on whether the
assessee has remitted excess royalty or not is a prerogative of regulatory
authorities and not tax authorities. In this regard, the ld. AR relied on the
decision of the Tribunal, Pune Bench, in the case of Akzo Nobel Chemicals  15
(India) Limited vs. DCIT,( ITA No.1477/Pune/2010) wherein it has held that the
TPO has no jurisdiction to interpret the provisions of FEMA in order to
compute net sales/turnover for the purpose of royalty. Applying the rationale,
according to the ld. AR, in the instant case, the TPO has exceeded his
jurisdiction by interpreting the provisions of FEMA in order to propose
transfer pricing adjustments and submitted that the TPO has misinterpreted the
provisions of FEMA and restricted the quantum of royalty. The ld. AR submitted
that it is pertinent to note that the term 'bought out components' is not
defined in FEMA and the said term includes only components which are not
subject to further processing and sold on as-is-basis to end customers.
According to the ld. AR, the intent of FEMA is to curb royalty payment on
product in respect of which no value has been added by the assessee company.
4.8 According to the ld. AR, for example if a company engaged in manufacture
of laptop procures web camera from a third party vendor and sells both the
products to end customers as a combined product, royalty should be confined
only to the selling price of laptop (thereby excluding the cost of web camera
16 from the overall selling price). Whereas, in the instant case, the
components procured by the assessee are processed further and therefore, the
same cannot qualify to be 'standard bought out components' in order to be
excluded from turnover for the purpose of computation of royalty. Further, it
is submitted that the components procured from its AEs have been processed
further for completing the end product and delivering to its customers. In
other words, the same does not constitute bought out components that are ready
for assembling, which issue has been discussed in detail by the Pune Bench,
Tribunal in the case of Akzo Nobel Chemicals (India) Limited vs. DCIT, supra.
Therefore, the ld. AR, submitted that the TPO has erred in re- computing the
quantum of royalty by misinterpreting the provisions of FEMA and no transfer
pricing adjustment is warranted in this regard.
4.9 Regarding the royalty on wind farm development and erection and
commissioning, the ld. AR, submitted that the TPO has remarked that the scope
of work involved under these activities do not involve any technology which is
not available in India and for which the assessee is dependent on the AE as a
17 part of the technology transferred under the agreement and based on the
observation, the TPO computed the ALP of the transaction to be Nil. According
to the ld. AR, these activities involve the following processes which require
tremendous expertise and cannot be undertaken directly by semi-skilled or
unskilled workmen :
Wind farm development Erection & Commissioning Environmental sustainability -
Providing guidelines to use tools
-Visual aspects - Validation of foundation designs 
-Ecological/architectural protection - Training to personnel of Gamesa India at the time of development of new prototypes Technical sustainability - Supervisory control and Data 
\- Wind speed acquisition (SCADA - for monitoring
\- Grid connection WTG throughout the year on remote
\- Providing drawings and design basis Professional support
\- Conceptual design
\- Design verification
\- Process validation
\- Wind measurement and assessment The ld. AR, further submitted that the TPO
himself has agreed that such activities require technology support. The only
contention raised by the TPO is that such activities do not require any
technology, which is not available in India. According to the ld. AR, it is
not the prerogative of the TPO to decide whether the assessee should have used
the technology provided by its AE or not. The TPO ought to have appreciated
the basic fact that the assessee developed wind farms, installed and
commissioned WEGs on the basis of the inputs provided by  18 its AE. The AE
has substantial past experience in implementing similar projects across the
globe and therefore, the assessee obtained technology and expertise from its
AE in order to ensure better quality to its customers. Therefore, according to
the ld. AR, the contention of the TPO that the ALP of royalty in relation to
wind farm development activities, erection and commissioning is Nils is not
tenable. The ld. AR further submitted that the copy of sample reports provided
by its AE in relation to wind farm development and sample mail correspondences
evidencing the fact that the assessee has sought the inputs from its AE are
also provided. In view of the above, the ld. AR, submitted that robust
technology and knowledge support is required for the purpose of executing the
wind farm development, erection and commissioning activities and the
contention of the TPO and DRP that no technology from its AE for undertaking
such activities is required, is factually incorrect.
5\. The ld. DR, submitted that the TPO has not determined the ALP for the
royalty paid by the assessee to its AE based on FEMA Regulations instead he
has substantiated his point of view that no royalty can be paid on the bought
out components using  19 the method of calculation of royalty provided in
FEMA. According to the ld. DR, it is pertinent to note that almost all the
companies operating in India and paying royalty to its foreign AEs for the
technology provided by the AEs are calculating royalty on the turnover after
reducing the value of the bought out components for the simple reason that the
cost of the technology were impeded in the price of the raw material. Indian
Transfer Pricing regulations provide the choice to the assessee for selecting
most appropriate method for benchmarking its international transactions with
its AEs. So, there is no logic behind the supplementary benchmarking done to
prove the ALP of the royalty using CUP method. The TPO has rightly rejected
the supplementary benchmarking done by the assessee. Even for the arguments
sake the contention of the assessee is accepted, the availability of the
details and accessibility of the foreign company's database is essential for
the comparability analysis which is a first step in determining the ALP of a
transaction. If the assessee could not provide the details in support of its
claim, the benchmarking done by the assessee should be rejected for the above
mentioned reasons.  20 5.1 The ld. DR, submitted that the assessee is not
correct in stating that no method prescribed under the statute has been
followed by the TPO. In a comparable situation involving an unrelated party,
such payment would not have been made by that party without commensurate
benefits accruing to it. Even otherwise, the assessee did not demonstrate the
need and benefit relating to such a payment. This has been elaborately dealt
with by the TPO in his order u/s.92CA(3) of the Act dated 29.1.2015. Such
comparison has been contemplated in the OECD Guidelines 2010 which held the
field at the relevant time of passing the order. The same is reproduced below
:
> "7.6 Under the arm's length principle, the question whether an intra-group
> service has been rendered when an activity is performed for one or more
> group members by another group member should depend on whether the activity
> provides a respective group member with economic or social value top enhance
> its commercial position. This can be determined by considering whether an
> independent enterprise in comparable circumstances would have been willing
> to pay for the activity if performed for it by an independent enterprise or
> would have performed the activity in-house for itself."
21
According to the ld. DR, the transactions can be aggregated only if they are
intricately intertwined and cannot be separately analyzed. This is not the
case here. Moreover, aggregated approach to transfer pricing analysis is the
exception rather than the norm. This issue has been dealt with extensively by
the DRP of its order dated 24.03.2017. The DRP has quoted case laws to reject
the assessee's objection in this regard. The OECD Guidelines of 2010 has also
taken the view that as far as possible, transactions are to be evaluated
separately. Considering this, according to the ld. DR, the action of the TPO
is in order.
5.2. Further, the ld. DR submitted that the commercial expediency may not be
questioned if the transactions carried out between uncontrolled parties. If
the transactions between the two parties are controlled then the nature of
transactions should be analyzed including the commercial expediency. Needless
to say the comparability study which forms the basis of Transfer Pricing
proceedings requires an analysis of the need for such a transaction and the
benefit derived by the assessee from that transaction. The TPO has not sought
to  22 question the commercial expediency of the royalty. What has been done
is to compare the circumstances surrounding the payment and the services said
to have received with an independent party in an uncontrolled situation. The
way in which the TPO is looking at each transactions, are altogether different
from the AO. The need benefit analysis in the light of the uncontrolled
transactions are essential for the comparability analysis.
5.3 The ld. DR submitted that the contention of the assessee that no
restriction on payment of royalty under the provisions of FEMA, Rates
prescribed under FEMA cannot be regarded as ALP for transfer pricing purposes
is not acceptable as the assessee tried to mislead the ITAT that the TPO has
determined the ALP for the royalty paid by the assessed to its AE using the
provisions of FEMA which is not correct. The TPO has opined that even the
royalty paid by the Indian companies to its AE are not considering the value
of the standard bought out components while calculating the royalty and
similar method of calculation for royalty also provided under FEMA
regulations. So the TPO has formed  23 his opinion based on the royalty
calculation of unrelated parties which does not include the value of bought
out components as the cost for the technology already impeded into the price
of the raw material (bought out components). The ld. DR submitted that the RBI
is an authority to regulate the foreign payments including royalty, put
restriction on the royalty payments. However, the RBI has relaxed the ceiling
for the payment of royalty does not mean that the assessee can pay entire
profits to its AE as royalty. Though the ceilings for royalty relaxed by RBI,
the method of calculation of royalty provided by the RBI can be taken as a
reference as the same method followed by most of the companies for calculating
the value of royalty.
5.4 The ld. DR submitted that the reason behind the reduction of the value of
bought out components from the total sales while calculating the royalty is
the cost of the technology already embedded in the price of the raw material
and for better understanding, the royalty calculation of Mobis India Ltd. is
provided below:
ROYALTY TO MOBIUS KOREA FOR FY 2013-14  24 Year Months Sales Less:Trading Less
Net Sales Royalty & MDI sales Imports 2013 April 3480790763.14 332329122
680868160 2477593481 74327804 May 3421868459.14 266548375 693651740 2461668344
73850050 June 3405444134.38 214242332 706660060 2484541742 74536252 July
3132628736.49 278692197 651524555 2202411985 66072360 August 3493824299.49
215174696 683986456 2594663147 77839894 Sept. 3431848518.09 183107653
661691049 2587049816 77611494 Oct. 3562398246.85 176505491 814222529
2571670227 77150107 Nov. 3330501933.26 153164362 708028323 2469309249 74079277
Dec. 3199347306.31 152503092 873569387 2173274827 65198245 2014 Jan.
3387231588.36 165947311 809826502 241157775 72343733 Feb. 3419453077.38
172590752 781271436 2465590889 7396727 March 3693961712.76 150903444
1088060649 2454997620 73649929 Total 40959298775.65 2451708826.57
9153360845.99 29354229103 880626873 .09 R & D Cess 5% 44031344 Total 924658217
As per GL 924658216  Difference 0 5.5 The ld. DR further submitted that the
issue of royalty ex- brought out components is discussed in detail by the TPO.
Royalty is to be paid on turnover less brought out component as per the Press
Note of the Department of Industries Policy and Promotion. The assessee has
not effectively countered the stand of the TPO that the royalty is to be paid
net of brought out components. Nor has the assessee given any reason why the
official policy document relied upon by the TPO is to be discarded. This issue
has also been confirmed by the DRP and the reasoning therefore are explained
by the Panel. The assessee had claimed royalty on substation development
charges, development revenues and revenue on erection and  25 commissioning of
Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs), which was discussed by the TPO in his order.
He has, after a perusal of the agreements relating to the above activities,
held that what was being done under these categories did not involve any
technology out of common infrastructure activities which do not involve any
element of transfer of technology. This has not been countered by the assessee
and the issue has been dealt with by the DRP in its order.
6\. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record. In this
case, under the technology transfer agreement dated 01.01.2009 and 11.07.2011
with Gamesa Innovation and Technology SL (Gamesa Spain), for availing
technology in relation to A.E 59 and G97 models respectively, the assessee
agreed to pay royalty @ 4% / 4.50% respectively on net amount of annual
turnover on sale of Wind Energy Generators (WEG) to its customers including
charges for development of land, substation, and erection & commissioning. The
assessee aggregated the royalty payment which is being international
transaction with AE and benchmarking it by using Net Present Cost (NPC) on
Revenues as PLI with TNMM method as most  26 appropriate method. The
assessee's NPC on revenue was claimed to be at 1.49% with three year weighted
margin on revenue of comparables of 0.07% and therefore, the AE transactions
were claimed to be at arm's length. According to TPO, the assessee's approach
of computation of Royalty and Managerial services by benchmarking them on an
aggregation basis was not accepted by TPO / AO. According to TPO, no royalty
payable on the standard bought out components and thereby reduced the cost of
standard bought out components from the turnover of the assessee and applied
the royalty rate on net turnover so as to determine the ALP. The plea of the
assessee is that it has considered certain comparables, agreements and the
arithmetic mean of the royalty as per the comparable agreement amount to
6.43%. The average rate of royalty as per the uncontrolled transactions is
higher than the royalty paid by the assessee, the transactions has been
regarded as within arm/s length price. However, the AO /TPO pointed out that
royalty paid by the assessee is in excess of royalty permitted under the
provisions of FEMA. The plea of the assessee is that no adjustment can be
applied following any  27 method other than those prescribed under Rule-10B of
the Income Tax rules. More so, the PLI of the assessee is at 4.84% as compared
to the comparables at 3.77%. Further, considering economic adjustments such as
customs duty and idle capacity adjustment, the margin of the assessee would be
up to 13.28%, which was accepted by TPO as the PLI is higher than the
comparables. Even considering the CUP as a secondary method for benchmarking
the royalty payment, average rate of royalty at comparable companies is at
6.43% as compared to the royalty paid by the assessee company at 4%/ 4.5%.
Therefore, even applying the CUP method percentage of payment royalty is
lesser than the comparable cases. In the case of DCIT Vs. Diebold Software
Services (P) Ltd., in 151 ITD 463(Mum.) it was held that when the TPO did not
accept TP analysis made by assessee without giving any reasons and made TP
adjustment without applying any prescribed method, such TP adjustment is not
sustainable either in law or on facts.
6.1 Similar view was taken in the case of Merck Ltd. Vs. DCIT in 148 ITD
513(Mum.) wherein held that the  28 "TP adjustment is required to be made by
applying one of the prescribed methods. The TPO has not applied any prescribed
method and has only disallowed part of the expenses as done in the normal
assessment, which is not permitted under transfer pricing regulation as per
which adjustment on account of any international transaction is required to be
made as per the method prescribed. The learned CIT (DR) pointed out that the
TPO in respect of the nine services not availed by the Assessee has treated
the payment as nil since no independent party would make any payment for
services not provided. The TPO thus had applied the CUP method and made
adjustment on account of nine services on average basis.
(para 24.6) Agreement listed certain services on which the Assessee requires
guidance/assistance from time to time. The Assessee was thus entitled to any
of the services as and when required. Therefore, applying CUP method to the
service not availed by the Assessee during the year is not justified. It would
have been appropriate if the AO had applied CUP method to the payment made
during the year by the Assessee for the three services and compared with
similar payment for such services by an independent party. No efforts have
been made by TPO/AO to determine the market value of services received by the
Assessee during the year relating to SAP implementation and quality control to
show that the Assessee had paid more compared to any independent party for the
same services. The Assessee had submitted that in case the Assessee had paid
to the AE at man hour rate for the technical services provided during the year
in relation to SAP implementation, the fees payable would have been
significantly higer. There is nothing produced before ITAT to controvert the
said claim. The Assessee has applied TNMM which shows that the margin shown by
the Assessee was higher than the comparable companies. The case of the
Assessee is also supported by the decision of Tribunal in case of Mc Can
Erricson India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) in which the decision of TPO to take the
value of certain services at nil has not been upheld. Considering the entirety
of facts  29 and circumstances, the adjustment made by TPO which is nothing
but disallowance of expenses cannot be upheld. ITAT, therefore, set aside the
order of CIT (A) on this point and delete the addition made." 6.2 It is also
observed that where the assessee has adopted TNMM method for the purpose of
bench marking its profits, adoption of CUP method solely for the purpose of
evaluating technical assistance fee would lead to absurdity and be detrimental
to the interests of both the Department and the assessee. In other words, once
the arm's length criteria is tested at entity level, the TPO has no
jurisdiction to examine the need, benefit etc. in relation to each
transaction. Thus, the transaction approach is not required, if the PLI of the
assessee at arm's length. This view is fortified by the judgment of Delhi High
Court in the case of Magneti Marelli Powertrain India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in
(2016) 389 ITR 0469 (Delhi) wherein held that:-
> "17. As far as the second question is concerned, the TPO accepted TNMM
> applied by the assessee, as the most appropriate method in respect of all
> the international transactions including payment of royalty.
> The TPO, however, disputed application of TNMM as the most appropriate
> method for the payment of technical assistance fee of Rs.
> 38,58,80,000 only for which Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method was
> sought to be applied. Here, this court concurs with the assessee that having
> accepted the TNMM as the most appropriate, it  30 was not open to the TPO to
> subject only one element, i.e payment of technical assistance fee, to an
> entirely different (CUP) method. The adoption of a method as the most
> appropriate one assures the applicability of one standard or criteria to
> judge an international transaction by. Each method is a package in itself,
> as it were, containing the necessary elements that are to be used as filters
> to judge the soundness of the international transaction in an ALP fixing
> exercise. If this were to be disturbed, the end result would be distorted
> and within one ALP determination for a year, two or even five methods can be
> adopted. This would spell chaos and be detrimental to the interests of both
> the assessee and the revenue. The second question is, therefore, answered in
> favour of the assessee; the TNMM had to be applied by the TPO/AO in respect
> of the technical fee payment too."
6.3 Similar view was taken by co-ordinate Bench of Hyderabad Tribunal in the
case of Air Liquid Engineering India (P) Ltd., in 152 ITD 157 wherein held
that:-
"20. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that once TNMM has been applied to the
assessee company's transaction, it covers under its ambit the Royalty
transactions in question too and hence separate analysis and consequent
deletion of the Royalty payments by the TPO in the instant case seems
erroneous. We draw support from the Hon'ble Mumbai ITAT decision in Cadbury
India Ltd vs. ACIT (ITA No 7408/Mum/2010 and ITA No.7641/Mum/2010 dated
13-11-2013) wherein the Hon'ble ITAT upheld the use of TNMM for Royalty as
well as relied on many of the above decisions to hold adjustment by TPO was
erroneous:
31
"33. The TPO has made the disallowance in question mainly on the basis of the
benefit test. In this regard, it is seen that the payment of royalty cannot be
examined divorced from the production and sales. Royalty is inextricably
linked with these activities. In the absence of production and sale of
products, there would be no question arising regarding payment of any royalty.
Rule 10A(d) of the ITAT Rules defines 'transaction' as a number of closely
linked transactions. Royalty, then, is a transaction closely linked with
production and sales. It cannot be segregated from these activities of an
enterprise, being embedded therein. That being so, royalty cannot be
considered and examined in isolation on a standalone basis. Royalty is to be
calculated on a specified agreed basis, on determining the net sales which, in
the present case, are required to be determined after excluding the amounts of
standard bought out components, etc., since such net sales do not stand
recorded by the assessee in its books of account. Therefore, it is our
considered opinion that the assessee was correct in employing an overall TNMM
for examining the royalty. The TPO worked out the difference in the PLI of the
outside party (the assessee) at 4.09% and the comparables at 7.05%. This has
not been shown to fall outside the permissible range.
34\. The decision of the Tribunal in 'Ekla Appliances', 2012- TII-01-HCDel-
TP, has been sought to be distinguished by the TPO, observing that the facts
in that case are not in pari materia with those of the assessee's case.
However, therein also, the benefit test had been applied by the TPO, as in the
present case. The matter was carried in appeal before the Hon'ble High Court.
The Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that the so-called benefit test cannot
be applied to determine the ALP of royalty payment at nil and that the TPO
could apply only one of the methods prescribed under the law. A similar view
has been taken in 'Sona Okegawa Precision Forgings Ltd.' (supra) and in 'KHS
Machinery Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO', 53 SOT 100 (Ahmd) (URO).
35\. It is, thus, seen that the royalty payment @ 3% by the assessee is at
arm's length. The Technical Collaboration Agreement stands approved by the
Government of India. The royalty payment has been accepted by the department
as having been made by the assessee wholly and exclusively for its business
purposes. For Assessment Years 2004-05 and 2005-06, such payment of royalty
has been allowed by the CIT (A). As per the FEMA Regulations, royalty can be
paid on net  32 sales @ 5% on domestic sales and @ 8% on export sales. The
royalty payment by the assessee falls within these limits. It also falls
within the limits of payment of royalty in the automobile sector, as per the
market trend. This payment of royalty is at the same percentage as that paid
by other auto ancillaries in the automotive industry. Then, in 'Ekla
Appliances' (supra) and in 'Ericsson India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT',
2012-TII-48-ITAT-Del-TP, it has been held that royalty payment cannot be
disallowed on the basis of the so-called benefit test and the domain of the
TPO is only to examine as to whether the payment based on the agreement
adheres to the arm's length principle or not. That being so, the action of the
TPO in the present case, to make the disallowance mainly on the ground of the
benefit test, is unsustainable in law.
36\. Keeping in view all the above factors, the disallowance made on account
of royalty is found to be totally uncalled for and it is deleted as such.
...".
21\. Hence, following the ratio of the Honb'le Delhi High Court in CIT vs. EKL
Appliances (supra) and various other decisions as noted above and given the
facts and circumstances of the instant case, we hold that the addition made by
the TPO and upheld by the DRP is unsustainable and is to be deleted. Hence
Ground No. 2 is held in favour of the assessee. Hence, the appeal of the
Revenue ITA.No.1040/Hyd/2011 is dismissed and Assessee's appeal in
ITA.No.1159/Hyd/2011 is allowed."
6.4 It is noticed that similar view was taken by the Co- ordinate Bench of
Jaipur in the case of ACIT vs. Sakata Inx (India) Ltd. in ITA
No.376/Jaipur/2012 vide order dated 14.11.2016.
33
6.5 One more reason given by TPO is with regard to downward adjustment in
respect of payment of royalty to AE on the reason that royalty payment is in
excess limit prescribed under the provisions of FEMA, 1999. According to
ld.D.R, royalty was required to be calculated by the assessee on the basis of
net ex-factory sale price of products excluding the excise duty, cost of
standard bought out components and landed cost of imported components etc.,
irrespective of the source of procurement, including ocean freight, insurance,
custom duties, etc. However, the assessee has not done so. The assessee has
claimed that the above condition no longer apply after the issue of RBI
circular RBI/2009-10/465 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.52 dated 13th May 2010
liberalizing royalty payment under technology collaboration agreements. The
ld.D.R submitted that there is no merit in the argument of the assessee. These
conditions are still applicable. Further, such conditions also give a method
regarding calculation of the amount of royalty to be paid to a foreign entity.
The method is a good guideline for determination of arm's length payment of
royalty between two unrelated parties. According to ld.D.R, the downward
adjustment  34 has been done by the TPO by excluding bought out component for
the purpose of calculation of royalty. In our opinion, an erstwhile regulatory
law of FEMA regarding royalty payment was permitted to the tune of 5% on
domestic sales and 8% in the case of export sales. However, the above said
ceiling on payment of royalty has been lifted with effect from 16.12.2009 vide
Circular No.52 dated 13th May 2010, which is reproduced herein below:-
> RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ____ Foreign Exchange Department Central Office Mumbal
> - 400 001 RB1I2009-1 01465 A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 52 May 13, 2010
> To All Category-I Authorised Dealer Banks Madam I Sir, Foreign Exchange
> Management Act (FEMA), 1999 -
Current Account Transactions -- Liberalisation Attention of Authorised Dealer
Category-I (AD Category-I) banks is invited to Foreign Exchange Management
(Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 notified vide Notification
No.G.S.R.381(E) dated 3rd May 2000, as amended from time to time.
2\. In terms of Rule 4 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account
Transactions) Rules 2000, prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, Government of India, is required for drawing foreign exchange for
remittances under technical collaboration agreements where payment of royalty
exceeds 5% on local sales and 8% on exports and lump- sum payment exceeds USD
2 million [item 8 of Schedule Ii to the Foreign Exchange Management (Current
Account Transactions) Rules, 2000]. The Government of India has reviewed the
extant policy with regard to liberalization of foreign technology agreement an
it was decided to omit item number 8 of Schedule II to the Foreign Exchange
Management (Current Account Transaction) Rules, 2000, and the entry relating
thereto.  35
3\. Accordingly, AD Category-I banks may permit drawal of foreign exchange by
persons for payment of royalty and lump-sum payment under technical
collaboration agreements without the approval of Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, Government of India.
4\. The amendment to the Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account
Transactions) Rules, 2000, in this regard has been notified by the Government
of India vide Notification No.G.S.R.382 (E) dated May 5, 2010 (copy enclosed).
5\. AD Category-I banks may bring the contents of this circular to the notice
of their constituents and customers concerned.
6\. The directions contained in this Circular have been. issued under Section
10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and
is without prejudice to permissions /approvals, ifany, required under any
other law.
Yours faithfully, (Salim Gangadharan) Chief General Manager-in-Charge MINISTRY
OF FINANCE (Department of Economic Affairs) NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 5th
May, 2010 Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions)
(Amendment) Rules, 2010 G.S.R. 382(E)-In exercise of the powers conferred by
Section 5 and sub- section (1) and clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 46
of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and in consultation
with the Reserve Bank, the Central Government, having considered it necessary
in the public interest, hereby makes the following further amendment in the
Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000,
namely:
1\. (1) These rules may be called the Foreign Exchange Management (Current
Account Transactions) (Amendment) Rules, 2010. (2) They shall be deemed to
have come into force with effect from the 16th day of December, 2009.
2\. In the Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules,
2000, in Schedule II, item number 8 and the entry relating thereto shall be
omitted.
Sd/-
Dr. K. P. KRISHNAN Joint Secretary  36 Issued by:
Government of India Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), New
Delhi.
[F.No. 1111EC12004J Explanatory Memorandum:- The Government of India reviewed
the extant policy with regard to liberalization of foreign technology
agreement and it was decided to permit, with immediate effect, payments for
royalty, lump sum fee for transfer of technology and payments for use of
trademark/brand name on the automatic route. Accordingly, Government of India
issued a Press Note on 16.12.2009.
Hence, the rule shall be deemed to have come into force with retrospective
effect, i.e. from 16.122009.
1\. It is certified that no person will be adversely affected by giving
retrospective effect to these rules.
6.6 In view of this, there is no merit in applying the provisions of FEMA as
indicated by the TPO and placing reliance on the provision of FEMA is
incorrect.
6.7 Further, it is to be noted that there cannot be any restriction on payment
of royalty on bought out components which were subject to further processing
by the assessee and which was not sold on as is basis to end customers. This
view of ours is fortified by the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Akzo
Nobel Chemicals (India) Ltd., in ITA No.1477/Pune/2010 dated 11.02.2014
wherein held in para -23 that "what is liable to  37 be considered as standard
bought-out components are such material on which no further processing is
required and are directly fitted into the final product; and, cost of such
material only needs to be deducted from the sale price to compute the royalty
payable. Applying the said clarification to the present situation, considering
the manufacturing process explained, it cannot be construed that the so-called
constituent material are merely fitted into the final product; on the
contrary, it is a case where such material also undergoes a chemical reaction
in the process of producing the final product and the same are irretrievable
once the finished product is manufactured. For the said reason also, in our
considered opinion considered opinion, the so-called 'constituent materials'
classified by the TPO cannot be equated to standard bought-out components so
as to reduce their cost from the sales value to compute the royalty payable.
For all the above reasons, we therefore find no justification on the part of
the TPO in rejecting the methodology adopted by the assessee to calculate net
sales for the purpose of computing the royalty payable".
38
6.8 Further, in our considered opinion, the TPO has no jurisdiction to
interpret the provisions of FEMA and restrict the quantum of royalty. It is
pertinent to note that the 'bought out components is not defined in FEMA.
Further, the said term includes only components which are not subject to
further processing and sold on as is basis to end customers. In the instant
case, the components procured by the assessee are processed further and
therefore, the same cannot be excluded from turnover for the purpose of
computation of royalty. Reliance placed on pra-16 of Tribunal decision in the
case of Akzo Nobel Chemicals (India) Ltd., in ITA No.1477/Pune/2010 dated
11.02.2014 wherein held that the examination of controlled transaction should
ordinarily be based on the transaction as it has been actually undertaken and
structured by the AE. The TPO should not disregard the actual transaction or
substitute other transaction for them. The two exceptions which have been
prescribed are (i) where the economic substance differs from its form; and
(ii) where the form and substance of the transaction is the same but
arrangements made in relation to the transaction, viewed in its totality,
differ from those which would have been  39 adopted by independent enterprises
be having in a commercially rational manner. In this case, the TPO has
reworked the royalty payable by the assessee to its AE on the basis of his
interpretation of the expression "Net Sales" for the purposes of determining
ALP of the international transaction of royalty payment to the AE, while
applying the CUP method. The moot point to be considered is whether the action
of the TPO in interpreting the expression "Net Sales", contained in the
Foreign Technology Collaboration agreement approved by the Govt. of India,
differently from what has been understood by the assessee is justified and
falls within the exceptions provided in the OECD guidelines which permit the
TPO to re-write the transaction or to disregard actual transactions.
Considered in the context of the OECD guidelines which have been exhaustively
referred by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of EKL Appliances Ltd.,
(345 ITR241), the impugned situation does not fit into the two exceptions.
Firstly, neither the Revenue has alleged and nor is there any material on
record to suggest that the economic substance of the impugned transaction
differs from its form. Secondly, there is no material on record to suggest
that  40 there is an arrangement between assessee and the Ae made in relation
to the impugned transaction which would differ from those which would have
been adopted by independent enterprises behaving in a commercially rational
manner. We say so for the reason that the entire gamut of royalty payment by
the assessee to the AE is in terms of the Foreign Technology Collaboration
agreement, which is duly approved by Govt. of India in terms of its Policy,
which is applicable across the spectrum. Moreover, it is not the case of the
TPO or even of the Revenue before us that the royalty remitted by the assessee
to the A.E has been found to be inconsistent or violative of the respective
Government or RBI guidelines or any other authority in law. Further, in our
considered opinion the royalty prescribed under FEMA are irrelevant for
transfer pricing purposes. In other words, merely because a payment is not
restricted under the provisions of FEMA, the said payment cannot be said to be
at ALP and vice versa. For this purpose, the reliance placed by the ld. A.R in
the following case law is justified:
i) Oracle India (P) Ltd., Vs. DCIT (386 ITR 1 (Delhi) )
ii) Gruner India (P) Ltd. Vs. DCIT (ITA No.6794/Delhi/2015)  41
iii) A.W.Faber Castell (India) (P) Ltd., Vs. DCIT (ITA No.1027/Mum/2017) dated
12.04.2017 Accordingly, this ground raised by the assessee in both the appeals
is allowed.
7\. The next common ground in these appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment on royalty payment to A.E on the ground that no royalty is
allowable on turnover pertaining to development of land, substation
development and erection and commissioning.
8\. The facts of the issue are that for erection and commissioning of WTG the
Gamesa-Spain provides how the erections are to be done and necessary steps for
commissioning is provided in the way of manual. Further, Gamesa-Spain has
developed software called Product Data Management ('PDM') a web based portal,
which contains such manuals for development, erection and commissioning. A
guide to access of the portal is attached which enables the users to use such
manuals. The TPO held that no royalty is payable on revenue pertaining to
development of land, substation development and  42 erection and
commissioning. The TPO himself has not disputed the fact that such activities
require technology support. The only contention raised by the TPO is that such
activities do not require any technology, which is not available in India.
9\. The ld. AR submitted that the TPO is not correct in holding that no
technology is required for allied activities such as erection and
commissioning, development etc. During the course of proceedings before the
TPO and DRP, the assessee has clearly explained the reasons for requirement of
technology at different stages including development of land, erection and
commissioning. The TPO ought to have appreciated that WEG is not a standard
product to be manufactured based on a tailor made technology. In other words,
it requires detailed examination right from soil testing, examining the
appropriateness of wind direction etc. which requires cumbersome technology
failure of which the entire product would be of no use to the customers.
Therefore, the action of the TPO and DRP in holding that no royalty is
required on allied activities such as development of land, erection and
commissioning etc, is not tenable ion the first place. The ld. AR further
submitted that  43 the copy of sample reports provided by its AE in relation
to wind farm development and sample mail correspondences evidencing the fact
that the assessee has sought the inputs from its AE are also provided.
10\. The ld. DR's submitted that the assessee had claimed royalty on
substation development charges, development revenues and revenue on erection
and commissioning of Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs). This issue has been
discussed in para 9.7 to 11.2 by the TPO, who has after a perusal of the
agreements relating to the above activities, held that what was being done
under these categories did not involve any technology transfer and that a
third party would not have agreed to pay royalty on income arising out of
common infrastructure activities which do not involve any element of transfer
of technology. This has not been countered by the assessee. This issue has
been dealt by the DRP also.
10.1 The ld.D.R, drew our attention to the relevant part of the order of DRP
for AY 2012-13 which is reproduced as follows: "On the issue of Royalty, the
TPO examined the Technology Transfer agreements between the assessee and its
AE and found that the assessee had not been calculating royalty in a manner,
which a person at arm's length would  44 have done. The royalty was being paid
even on readymade components bought by the assessee from its AB and for which
price had separately been paid by it. The TPO has also referred to the "Note
for guidance of entrepreneurs for foreign and technology transfer under
Automatic route of RBI" and the "Standard conditions attached to automatic
approval for foreign investrnent technology agreements" included in the said
note The relevant part of the same is reproduced as follows "2. (a) The
royalty will be calculated on the basis of the net ex-factory sale price of
the product, exclusive of excise duties, minus the cost of the standard
bought- out components and the landed cost of imported components,
irrespective of the source of procurement including ocean freight insurance,
custom duties, etc. The payment of royalty will be restricted to the licensed
capacity plus 25% in excess thereof for such items requiring industrial
licence or on such capacity as specified in the approval letter. This
restriction will not apply to items not requiring industrial licence. In case
of production in excess of this quantum, prior approval of Government would
have to be obtained regarding the terms of payment of royalty in respect of
such excess production.
(b) The royalty would not be payable beyond the period of the agreement f the
orders had not been executed during the period of agreement. However, where
the orders themselves look a long time to execute, then the royally for an
order booked during the period of agreement, but executed after the period of
agreement, would be payable only after a Chartered Accountant certifies that
the orders in fact have been firmly booked and execution began during the
period of agreement and the technical assistance was available on a continuing
basis even after the period of agreement
(c) No minimum guaranteed royalty would be allowed.
3\. The lump sum shall be paid in three installments as detailed below, unless
otherwise stipulated in the approval letter:- First 1/3 rd after the approval
for collaboration proposal is obtained from the Reserve Bank of India and
collaboration agreement is filed with the Authorized Dealer in Foreign
Exchange.
Second 1/3rd on delivery of know-how documentation.  45 Third and final 1/3rd
on commencement of commercial production, or four years after the proposal is
approved by the Reserve Bank of India and agreement is filed with the
Authorised Dealer in Foreign Exchange, whichever is earlier." 3.2 Thus the
royalty was required to be calculated by the assessee on the basis of the net
ex-factory sale price of the product, exclusive of excise duties, minus the
cost of the standard bought-out components and the landed cost of imported
components, irrespective of the source of procurement, including ocean
freight, insurance, custom duties, etc. However, the assessee has not done so.
The assessee has claimed that the above conditions no longer apply after the
issue of RBI circular RBI/2009-10/465 A.P (DIR Series) Circular No.52 dated
13th May 2010 liberalizing Royalty payment under technology collaboration
agreements. However, this argument of the assessee does not have any merit.
These conditions are still applicable. Further, such conditions also give a
method regarding calculation of the amount of royalty to be paid to a foreign
entity. The method is a good guideline for determination of arm's length
payment of royalty between two unrelated parties. Considering above there is
merit in the downward adjustment as done by the TPO by excluding bought out
components for the purposes of calculation of royalty. The objection of the
assessee on this issue is thus not accepted.
3.3 The next objection of the assessee is in relation to the adjustment done
by the TPO by considering that royalty is not to be paid on revenue from
erection and commissioning and development of land. The assessee has made
detailed submissions on these issues. The submissions of the assessee have
duly been considered. The issue has been discussed by TPO in para 12 and 13 of
his order. The issue has duly been confronted to the assessee by the TPO and
the objections of the assessee have been dealt in detail in the order. The TPO
has examined the agreement between the assessee and its customers to bring out
as to how the work performed by the assessee did not require use of any
special technology, for which the payment of royalty could be considered. The
assessee has put unnecessarily stress on the words "manufacture, sell, install
& commission and carry out O&M activities and use all technical documents,
drawings, type certificates" in its agreement with AB, for claiming  46 that
the royalty is meant for "install & commission" technology also. However, the
observation of the TPO that these words have been used in generic sense only
and are meant to indicate the activities that would follow the transfer of
technology, deserve special consideration e.g. the words include "sell"
however the assessee has not replied as to how the transfer of technology was
linked to the sale of its products and how the same has been used by it for
sale of its products. Similarly, how separate technology for O&M activities is
required when the assessee has already got the entire technology for the
manufacture of the product. The assessee has not explained as to how the
technology could have been transferred without technical documents, drawings,
type certificates etc. So reliance of the assessee on these words in the
agreement to support its claim, is totally misplaced. The action of the TPO is
found to be correct and the objection of the assessee on this issue is not
accepted." 10.2 Further, ld.D.R submitted that during the year under
consideration, the issues regarding royalty payment on bought out components,
royalty on substation development charges, royalty on development revenue and
royalty on erection & commission charges remain same as for the AY 2012-13.
Since the facts remain the same, there is no reason to differ with the order
on the same issues for AY 2012-13 and the DRP concurs with the reasoning given
by the DRP for AY 2012-13 for rejecting the objections of the assessee. In
addition to the reasoning of DRP for AY 2012-13, as regards the issue of
Royalty payment on bought out components, the assessee was asked (order sheet
entry 23.02.2017) by the Panel to  47 explain as to whether any Royalty is
paid by the various group companies to Gamesha Innovation & Tech (GIT), the
owner of IPR, as such companies were using the technology owned by GIT in the
process of manufacturing the component being supplied to the assessee.
According to ld.D.R, in the written submissions dated 15.03.2017, the assessee
submitted that as per its Group Policy, the royalty is not required to be paid
if sales are made to the group companies and same is charged only when the
sales are made to the outside parties. To support its claim the assessee
produced copy of some selected pages of a document titled 'Gamesha Group
Transfer Priing-2014 and the following Years' before DRP. This document, as
the title suggests, is not relevant for the year under consideration i.e. F.Y.
2010-11. The assessee could not explain as to how this document was relevant
for the year under consideration and why it could not produce the complete set
of the relevant documents. So no cognizance can be taken of this document.
Further, no other documents were produced by the assessee to substantiate its
claim that GIT was not charging any royalty from the company's manufacturing
the  48 components. If it is considered the concept of arm's length price, GIT
would be charging Royalty from the manufacturers utilizing its technology and
the selling price of these manufacturers (which is cost price of the
components for the assessee) will already be loaded with cost related to
royalty. So in an arm's length scenario: payment of royalty on bought out
components would not make any business logic other than unduly benefitting the
AE. In fact, even as per the agreement between the assessee and GIT, the
royalty is to be paid 'to manufacture, sell, install & commissioning and carry
out O&M activities', however the bought-out components are not at all
manufactured, but the same are just purchased and then sold. So the issue of
payment of royalty on the same would not arise even as per terms of the
agreement. The assessee has made request for admission of certain additional
evidences before this Panel.
11\. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record. The
assessee claimed royalty of 4% on revenue generated from erected and
commission, which worked out at `2,96,65,850/- for assessment year 2011-12 and
a sum of  49 `5,98,47,389/- for assessment year 2012-13. The ld. Assessing
Officer after going through the agreement entered into by the assessee with
the customer in this respect and scope of work agreed to perform by the
assessee to its customers, was of the opinion that it does not involve any
application of technology transferred to the assessee by the AE for which the
assessee is depending on the AE as part of the Technology Transfer Agreement.
Therefore, the claim of arm's length price on royalty claimed on development
of revenue was determined as 'Nil'. Before us, the assessee explained the
activities, which involved high degree of expertise and cannot be undertaken
directly by semi-skilled or unskilled workmen, which is as follows:-
Wind farm development Erection & Commissioning
\- Providing guidelines to use Environmental sustainability tools
\- Visual aspects - Validation of foundation
\- Ecology/architectural protection designs
\- Training topersonnel of Gamesa India at the time of Technical
sustainability development of new
\- Wind speed prototypes.
      - -Grid connection
      - -Providing drawings and design     -   Supervisory control and Data
      -                                        acquisition (SCADA) - for
                                               monitoring WTG throughout
      Professional support                     the year on remote basis.
      -Conceptual design
      -Design Verifiction                  Process explained in detail in page
      -Process validation                  425 to 428 of paper book volume-2
                                    50
      -Wind measurement and assessment
                 Nature of services rendered by Gamesa Spain.
    Erections:
For erection WTC, all the technical support for crane capacity and erection
procedure and safety procedures, validating the site conditions are provided.
Tools For erection the guidelines to use erecting tools are provided and the
necessary validation of such tools are done by GCT.Training All necessary
training at the time of development of new prototype.
Transportation Moving blade from factory to the work site is a difficult job
owing to the bulk nature of blades. The wind farms are generally located in
hilly areas which warrant constructing proper approach roads with curvature.
The needed technical support for building approach roads is provided.
SCDA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCDA) is the remote monitoring
equipment of wind turbines; it helps to monitor the  51 WTC all throughout the
year. The necessary software training on how to maintain the equipment are
provided by Gamesa-Spain. WTG Manufacturing & Erection & Commissioning All
necessary drawing and required part are provided by GIT with the common tool
of PDM the necessary document is attached herewith.
Erection & Commissioning:-
Foundation Validation of foundation designs are done by GIT. Each and every
change in type of wind turbines requires necessary changes according to
different foundations which are based the bearing capacity of soil. The
necessary base drawings are approved through engineering department. The
necessary standard details are to be provided for the same by Gamesa- Spain.
Suggesting type of foundations based on the site conditions. Problems solving
during construction as necessary An extract from the execution and quality
control manual is given below Gamesa Instruction Code: ICA-1-011 Execution and
quality Previous code:
                          control for wind turbine
                          foundations
      Version:1           Language : EN              Page :1 of 37
      Date:03/06/2011     Security      : Public
                                         52
                               classification
The aim is to define the control activities for the design and validation of
foundations and to develop, in detail, the activities to be carried out for
the execution o the slab or pile cap at the wind farm. This instruction
applies to all shallow or deep foundations with piles in situ or micorpiles of
Gamesa 850 dw and Gamesa 2.0 MW standard type wind turbines (with welded
foundation section) and for those in which the farm is supplied concrete from
a factory.
Construction Operations:
Erecting wind turbines requires the efforts of many skilled construction
workers. The work begins before the turbine components arrive on site:
construction laborers and construction equipment operators are responsible for
building local access roads and the foundations that support the turbines.
Based on the experience Gamesa Spain provide know-how on, how to build the
access roads, transport the wind turbine blades across remote places which
more challenging. They also provide the technical feasibility to approach the
site.  53 After the turbine components arrive, crane operators set the first
tower segment vertically onto the ground, where other workers secure it to the
foundation. The remaining tower segments are then stacked atop one another and
fastened together. When the tower has been erected, crane operators carefully
lift the nacelle and the blades. The nacelle is placed on the top of the tower
and the blades are attached to the turbine's hub.
Construction labourers often work on wind farms as contractors and are
responsible for preparing the site and building the surrounding
infrastructure. Their work includes clearing tress and debris from the wind
farm, cleaning machines, and helping to break up the ground on which the
turbine will rest. Construction workers employed by companies that specialize
in developing wind farms are sometimes in supervisory roles. They might work
under the project manager to direct local contractors and confirm that all on-
site work is performed safely and correctly. These workers might also be
trained as wind turbine service technicians.
Construction equipment operators, with the help of construction laborers, are
responsible for building accessible roads directly to  54 the construction
site, helping ensure that the wind turbine components can arrive without
damage or delay. They use bulldozers, road graders and other equipment to set
up the construction site.
Crane operators are necessary in building a wind farm because the components
are so large. They use their cranes to lift the pieces of the turbine off the
trucks as they arrive. Crane operators are integral to the actual construction
job, as well. For example, they operate cranes to stack the tower segments and
life the blades to the hub.
Electricians are needed to get the energy from the turbine's generator to the
power grid on the ground. They wire the turbine to connect its electrical
system to the power grid. When installing wiring, electricians use hand tools
such conduit benders, screwdrivers, pliers, knives, and wire strippers, as
well as power tools such as drills and saws. Support of Gamesa- Spain entities
is drawn in all the above aspects of operations. Education andTraining:
Although some construction labourer jobs have no specific education or
training requirements, some construction workers  55 receive more formal
training in the form of apprenticeships. These programs consist of several
years of classroom and on the job training. High school classes in English,
mathematics, physics, mechanical drawing, blueprint reading, welding and
general shop can be helpful to prepare for the apprenticeships. Many
construction labourers' skills are learned on the job and by assisting more
experienced workers.
Local contractors may or may not have worked with wind turbines before.
However, construction workers and wind turbine service technicians employed by
companies specializing in wind farm development handle the more technical
operations and usually have extensive experience in the wind industry.
Construction equipment operators and crane operators learn their skills
through on-the-job training, apprenticeships, or, for some, union instruction.
In addition, the operators are expected to be certified to operate their
equipment. Crane operators need to be highly skilled, especially when handling
large, expensive cargo like wind turbine components. Most electricians learn
their trade through apprenticeship programs that combine on-the- job training
with related classroom instruction. Apprenticeship  56 programs usually last 4
years, and, in them, electricians learn skills such as electrical theory,
blueprint reading, electrical code requirements, and soldering. Depending on
the State, electricians might have to pass an examination that tests their
knowledge of electrical theory, the National Electrical Code, and local and
State electrical and building codes. For this connection Gamesa --Spain
empowers the company to able to conduct training programs for their employees
as well as contractors, so that skilled work force is available to them.
Project Managers It takes a large number of people to build a wind farm, and
managing the project can be a difficult task. Project managers oversee the
construction of the wind farm from site selection to the final installation of
turbines. A project manager will oversee a diverse team, including engineers,
construction workers, truck drivers, crane operators, and wind technicians.
Project managers must have excellent attention to detail and be good at time
and resource management.
Project managers usually have experience in construction and management or in
engineering. They must be familiar with all  57 aspects of wind farm
development: from budgeting, site selection, site studies, and permitting
processes and safety policies to construction and transportation of wind
turbines. Project managers are employed by larger construction companies,
energy companies, or land owners and work under contract or as salaried
employees. Because of the size and complexity of some wind farms, project
managers may manage portions of the construction, such as site clearing,
foundation construction, or tower erection These Managers report to a senior
project manager or site manager.
Project managers split their time between the wind farm site and their office,
which may be located onsite or offsite. Primary office responsibilities
include managing permitting, contracting, and the budget. At the construction
site, the project manager monitors progress and performs inspections for
quality control. Project managers oversee the contracting process and manage
various contractors and subcontractors. They are responsible for promoting a
safe work environment and ensuring strict adherence to site safety policies.
EDUCATION AND TRAINING  58 Experience in construction, particularly wind farm
construction, is vital for project managers. Most managers have experience
working on several wind farm projects before they are selected to manage one.
Education is becoming important, and most project managers hold a bachelor's
degree or higher in construction management, business management, or
engineering. Advanced degrees, such as an MBA, are becoming more common.
Because experience is so important for these positions, years of experience
may substitute for some educational requirements. However, this is becoming
increasingly rare, as projects grow more complex and employers place more
emphasis on specialized education. New graduates from construction management
or engineering programs may be hired as assistants to project managers to gain
experience. Towards empowering the project managers, Gamesa-Spain helps the
company in providing suitable training to the staff.
            Gamesa              Guideline                Code: GDE-TEC-004
                           Short circuit claculations    Previous code: N/A
      Edition:1            Language :                    Page :1 of 133
      Date:14/02/2012      Security       : Public
                           Rating
                                    59
The above guidelines are explaining how to proceed with the calculations of
short-circuits currents and its connection with cable sizing and protective
devices sizing documents. It is important to know the correct application of
the various short- circuit ratings by the circuit designer, in order to avoid
leaving a circuit or equipment with inadequate cable size or over-current
protection device. This guideline analyses the calculation method described in
the IEC 60909 standard and is compared with the procedures described in IEC
61363-1. This guide is directly linked with ETAP to let the designer a more
practical view of the design.
            Gamesa              Guideline           Code: GDE-TEC-002
                           Cable Sizing Guideline   Previous code: N/A
      Edition:1            Language :               Page :1 of 57
      Date:14/02/2012      Security     : Public
                           Rating
The aim of this document is to write down a guideline for sizing the following
cable types:
Power medium voltage, power low voltage, and supply low voltage cables,
considering the corresponding IEC and NEC Standards. Additionally, a detail
study about how to proceed with Cable Sizing in ETAP software is written down.
The  60 limitations of the software are explained as well as the procedure of
sizing all the cables.
Usage of SCADA SCADA is the equipment which will monitor the each and every
wind turbine from the necessary training for software usage and equipment
handling are provided by them.
11.1 It is brought to our notice that the TPO himself has agreed that such
activities required technology support. The only contention raised by the TPO
is that such activity did not require any technology, which is available in
India. In other words, the contention of the TPO is that required technology
for this activity is available in India. In our opinion, it is not the
prerogative of TPO to decide whether the assessee should have used the
technology provided by its AE or not. It is to be noted that assessee
developed wind farms, installed and commissioned WGS on the basis of input
provided by its AE. The AE has vast experience in implementing such projects
across global and therefore, the assessee obtained expertise knowledge from AE
in order to ensure better quality to its customers. In our opinion, the TPO
cannot question commercial expediency of incurring  61 any expenditure by the
assessee as held by the following judgments:-
a) In the case of Hive Communication (P) Ltd., Vs. CIT in 353 ITR 200(Delhi)
b) In the case of CIT Vs. EKL Appliances Ltd. in 345 ITR 241(Delhi)
c) In the case of CIT Vs. computer Graphic Ltd. in 155 Taxman 612 (Mad.) 11.2
Further, once the TNMM has been applied for the transaction and it covered
under its ambit the royalty transaction in question. A separate analysis and
consequent deletion of royalty payment is unwarranted. Placing reliance in the
case of Magneti Marelli Powertrain India (P) Ltd., Vs, DCIT wherein held
that:-
> 17\. As far as the second question is concerned, the TPO accepted TNMM
> applied by the assessee, as the most appropriate method in respect of all
> the international transactions including payment of royalty. The TPO,
> however, disputed application of TNMM as the most appropriate method for the
> payment of technical assistance fee of Rs.
> 38,58,80,000 only for which Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method was
> sought to be applied. Here, this court concurs with the assessee that having
> accepted the TNMM as the most  62 appropriate, it was not open to the TPO to
> subject only one element, i.e payment of technical assistance fee, to an
> entirely different (CUP) method. The adoption of a method as the most
> appropriate one assures the applicability of one standard or criteria to
> judge an international transaction by. Each method is a package in itself,
> as it were, containing the necessary elements that are to be used as filters
> to judge the soundness of the international transaction in an ALP fixing
> exercise. If this were to be disturbed, the end result would be distorted
> and within one ALP determination for a year, two or even five methods can be
> adopted. This would spell chaos and be detrimental to the interests of both
> the assessee and the revenue. The second question is, therefore, answered in
> favour of the assessee; the TNMM had to be applied by the TPO/AO in respect
> of the technical fee payment too.
11.3 A similar view was taken by Co-ordinate Bench of Hyderabad in the case of
DCIT Vs. Air Liquid Engineering India (P) Ltd., in 43 Taxmann.com 229 wherein
held that:-
20\. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that once TNMM has been applied to the
assessee company's transaction, it covers under its ambit the Royalty
transactions in question too and hence separate analaysis and consequent
deletion of the Royalty payments by the TPO in the instant case seems
erroneous. We draw support from the Hon'ble Mumbai ITAT decision, Cadbury
India Ltd. vs. ACIT (ITA No  63 7408/Mum/2010 and ITA No.7641/Mum/2010 dated
13-11-2013) wherein the Hon'ble ITAT upheld the use of TNMM for Royalty as
well as relied on many of the above decisions to hold adjustment by TPO was
erroneous:
"33. The TPO has made the disallowance in question mainly on the basis of the
benefit test. In this regard, it is seen that the payment of royalty cannot be
examined divorced from the production and sales. Royalty is inextricably
linked with these activities. In the absence of production and sale of
products, there would be no question arising regarding payment of any royalty.
Rule 1 OA(d) of the ITAT Rules defines 'transaction' as a number of closely
linked transactions. Royalty, then, is a transaction closely linked with
production and sales. ft cannot be segregated from these activities of an
enterprise, being embedded therein. That being so, royalty cannot be
considered and examined in isolation on a standalone basis. Royalty is to be
calculated on a specified agreed basis, on determining the net sales which, in
the present case, are required to be determined after excluding the amounts of
standard bought out components, etc., since such net sales do not stand
recorded by the assessee in its books of account. Therefore, it is our
considered opinion that the assessee was correct in employing an overall TNMM
for examining the royalty. The TPO worked out the difference in the PU of the
outside party (the assessee) at 4.09% and the comparables at 7.05%. This has
not been shown to fall outside the permissible range.
34\. The decision of the Tribunal in 'Ekla Appliances', 2012- TH-01-HCDe1- TP,
has been sought to be distinguished by the TPO, observing that the facts in
that case are not in pan matena with those of the assessee's case. However,
therein also, the benefit test had been applied by the TPO, as in the present
case. The matter was carried in appeal before the Hon'ble High Court. The
Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that the so-called benefit test cannot be
applied to determine the ALP of royalty payment at nil and that the TPO could
apply only one of the methods prescribed under the law. A similar view has
been taken in 'Sona Okegawa Precision Forgings Ltd.' (supra) and in 'KHS
Machinery Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO', 53 SOT 100 (Ahm) (URO).
35\. It is, thus, seen that the royalty payment @ 3% by the assessee is at
arm's length. The Technical Collaboration Agreement stands approved by the
Government of India. The royalty payment has been accepted by the department
as having been made by the assessee wholly and exclusively for its business
purposes. For Assessment Years 2004-05 and 2005-06, such payment of royalty
has been allowed by the CIT (A). As per the FEMA Regulations,  64 royalty can
be paid on net sales @ 5% on domestic sales and @ 8% on export sales. The
royalty payment by the assessee falls within these limits. ft also falls
within the limits of payment of royalty in the auto mobile sector, as per the
market trend. This payment of royalty is at the same percentage as that paid
by other auto ancillaries in the automotive industry. Then, in 'Ekia
Appliances' (supra) and in 'Ericsson India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT',
2012-TII-48-ITAT-Del- TP, it has been held that royalty payment cannot be
disallowed on the basis of the so-called benefit test and the domain of the
TPO is only to examine as to whether the payment based on the agreement
adheres to the arm's length principle or not. That being so, the action of the
TPO in the present case, to make the disallowance mainly on the ground of the
benefit test is unsustainable in law.
36\. Keeping in view all the above factors, the disallowance made on account
of royalty is found to be totally uncalled for and it is deleted as such. ...
".
21\. Hence, following the ratio of the Honb'le Delhi High Court in CIT vs. EKL
Appliances (supra) and various other decisions as noted above and given the
facts and circumstances of the instant case, we hold that the addition made by
the TPO and upheld by the DRP is unsustainable and is to be deleted. Hence
Ground No. 2 is held in favour of the assessee. Hence, the appeal of the
Revenue ITA.No.1040/Hyd/2011 is dismissed and Assessee's appeal in
ITA.No.1159/Hyd/2011 is allowed." 11.4 Being so, in our opinion, there is no
question of downward adjustment towards on royalty payment to AE on the ground
that no royalty is allowable on turnover pertained to development of land,
substation development and erection and commissioning. This ground of assessee
in both the appeals is allowed.  65
12\. The next ground for the asst. year 2011-12 is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of royalty paid pertaining to the turnover of preceding
year.
13\. The facts of the issue as noted by the Authorities are that the
technology agreement is dated 1st April, 2010 and therefore, it is valid only
with effect from that date. Going by the rational business behavior of
economic activities, no royalty would have been otherwise paid to an unrelated
party. No business entity would willfully impose on itself any financial
obligation for a period for which there was no legal obligation.
14\. The ld. AR submitted that the Technology Transfer Agreement has been
signed on 1st January 2009. Further, the ld. AR submitted that the TPO has not
disputed the fact that the assessee utilized the technology of the AE during
the preceding year. Further, the expenditure has not been booked during the
preceding year on account of the fact that the invoice has been received from
its AE only during the subject asst. year. Therefore, according to the ld. AR,
the contention of the TPO that such expenditure is unwarranted is baseless.
66
15\. The ld.D.R submitted that the assessee had claimed royalty on substation
development charges, development revenues and revenue on erection &
commissioning of wind turbine generator (WTG5). This issue has been discussed
by the TPO in paras 9.7 to 11.2 of his order. He has after the perusal of
Agreements relating to the above activities, held that what was being done
under these categories did not involve any technology transfer and that a
third party would not have agreed to pay royalty on income arising out of
common infrastructure activities which do not involve any element of transfer
of technology. This has not been countered by the assessee. This issue has
been dealt with by the DRP in its order dt 24.03.2017 in para 4.1 & 4.2.
Further, the assessee had claimed before the DRP that it was normal practice
to have some products as ex- works at the end of the year and the royalty
accrues only on the execution. The DRP has asked the assessee to furnish
details of such ex-works products for the F.Y 2010-11 which were carried over
and the assessee had admitted that there were no such carry over either in the
F.Y 2010-11 or later years. In short, the assessee could not prove that such
carryover were normal in its  67 line of business. The assessee has not been
able to explain as to why royalty was paid for prior period sales when the
agreement itself had come into effect only from 01-04-2010. This has been
recorded by the DRP in para 4.4 of its order dt 24.03.2017.
16\. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record. In
this case, the Technology Transfer Agreement has been signed on 1st January,
2009. The assessee utilized the technology of the A.E during the preceding
year. However, no expenditure was booked by the assessee on the reason that no
invoice has been received from its AE during the preceding assessment year.
The assessee claimed that all the sales in F.Y 2009-10 were EXWORKS,
installation of which was completed y it in F.Y 2010-11. The assessee paid the
royalty in the year in which installation and commissioning was completed.
Before TPO, the assessee not furnished the details of "product sold date" and
EXWORK" details in relation to each supply agreement along with the copies of
relevant agreement for the Financial years 2009-10 to 2012-13 and it was also
not proved that there was carry forward one year to another year. Before the
DRP,  68 there was no details provided by the assessee regarding date of
installation and only furnished the product sold date for F.Y 2009-10 and no
such details of other years were provided and the assessee failed to
substantiate its own claim. Before us, the ld. A.R made a plea that since the
invoice has been received from the AE during the assessment year under
consideration, it was subject to TDS and it is to be allowed. In our
considered opinion, if the expenditure was crystallized and accrued in the
assessment year under consideration, the same is to be allowed subject to
deduction of TDS as held by Delhi High Court in the case of SMCC Construction
India (ITA No.12/2010, dated 15.01.2010). Similar view was taken by Tribunal
in the case of i)Termo Penpol Ltd., (ITA No.410/coch/2014 dt.12.12.2014) and
ACIT Vs. M/s.Ennore Coke Ltd.,(ITA No.1921/Mds./2015 dt.22.01.2016). The
assessee has to furnish the details of product sold date and date of
completion of installation work with corresponding agreements. The A.O/TPO
should examine the same and decide the issue in the light of above judgments.
This ground is remitted to the file of AO for fresh consideration.
69
17\. The next common ground in these appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of management fee. 17.1 The assessee filed the following
additional evidences for A.Y 2012-13 and submitted that the assessee could not
foresee the requirement of the tax authorities and DRP, therefore the assessee
did not specifically submit the details of allocation of management fee:-
       Sl. No.     Particualrs
       1           Statement showing allocation of management fees
       2           List of invoices raised on group entities by Gamesa
Corporation Technological SA Spain(Gamesa Spain) for the calendar year 2011 3
Sample copy of invoices raised on Gamesa goup entities by Gamesa spain It was
submitted by ld. A.R that only pursuant to the observations of the DRP in the
order dated 26th November, 2016, the assessee understood the requirement of
authorities and therefore, filed the above information before this Tribunal.
It was also submitted that non-submission of the above details before the ld.
Assessing Officer/TPO/DRP is neither intentional nor wanton. He drew our
attention to the decision of Tribunal in the case of Abhay Kumar Shroff Vs.
I.T.O in (1997) 63 ITD 144 wherein held that "if the documents sought to be
admitted even at second appellate stage are of a nature and qualitatively such
that they render assistance  70 to Tribunal in passing orders or are required
to be admitted for any 'other substantial cause', it would rather be duty of
Tribunal to admit them. Such proposition has been laid down further by Delhi
High Court in the case of CIT vs. Text Hundred India (P) Ltd., in 351 ITR 57
wherein held that the Court has held that Rule 29 categorically permits the
Tribunal to allow such additional evidences for proper adjudication of the
matter and in the interest of substantial cause.
17.2 The ld.D.R was of the view that the assessee has not given any
justification for admission of these additional evidences at this stage. The
assessee was asked for the reasons of not producing these documents before the
TPO. In response to this assessee only submitted that the TPO did not make any
specific request for production of these documents and so the same were not
produced before the TPO. The assessee submitted that since the DRP rules allow
submission of additional evidence, so the same should be admitted. The
assessee has failed to give any reason for not furnishing these documents
before the TPO to support its case. The assessee has not given any explanation
as to what prevented it from producing such documents before the TPO at  71
the time of transfer pricing proceedings before the TPO, especially when
sufficient opportunity of being heard was given to it by the TPO. The onus was
on the assessee to produce all such relevant documents before the TPO, which
in its opinion could support its case. However, the assessee failed to do so.
The assessee has not brought anything on record to show that the documents
could not have been produced by it before TPO despite its best efforts
Admission of the additional evidence cannot be claimed as a matter of right
and it is the duty of the assessee to explain the circumstances which
prevented it from submitting such documents before the lower authorities.
Since the assessee failed to provide sufficient cause to furnish these,
documents before the TPO, the same cannot be admitted at this stage.
17.3. The ld.D.R, by placing reliance in the judgment of ITAT, Bangalore in
case of Anupam Kothar in ITA No 837 (Bang) 2012 held that for admission of
additional evidence, it is required for the assesse to show that authorities
had decided its grounds without giving sufficient opportunity to adduce
evidence. Considering above the request of assessee for admission of
additional evidences is not accepted. Even on merits, these additional  72
evidences the assessee has not explained as to how the said document was
relevant to its case, which relates to F.Y 2011-12, The TPO has not disputed
that the assessee is carrying out the business of setting up of Wind Turbines.
The TPO has only disputed the payment of royalty on certain sales/activities.
These documents do not at all contradict the same. The ld.D.R submitted that
in view of the above, the action of the TPO cannot be faulted with and the
objections of the assessee are not accepted. 17.4 We have heard both the
parties and perused the material on record. In view of the observation of the
DRP, the basic evidence to support the claim of cost incurred at the A.E's end
are not available for verification. This is the very minimum that the TPO
required to investigate and to establish whether the cost floated as per pre-
determined keys is reasonable / legitimate or not. No evidence from the books
of the AE with regard to cost, both direct and indirect, and primary documents
maintained by AE in support of this claim in its books, has been produced by
the assessee either before TPO or DRP on this issue. Now, the assessee
produced the details as stated above. In our considered opinion, in view of
the judgment of Supreme Court in the case of  73 National Thermal Power Co.
Ltd Vs. CIT [(1998) 229 ITR 0383] wherein it was held that:-
"Under s. 254 the Tribunal may, after giving both the parties to the appeal an
opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit. The
power of the Tribunal in dealing with appeals is thus expressed in the widest
possible terms. The purpose of the assessment proceedings before the taxing
authorities is to assess correctly the tax liability of an assessee in
accordance with law. If, for example, as a result of a judicial decision given
while the appeal is pending before the Tribunal, it is found that a non-
taxable item is taxed or a permissible deduction is denied, there is no reason
why the assessee should be prevented from raising that question before the
Tribunal for the first time, so long as the relevant facts are on record in
respect of that item. There is no reason to restrict the power of the Tribunal
under s. 254 only to decide the grounds which arise from the order of CIT(A).
Both the assessee as well as the Department have a right to file an
appeal/cross- objections before the Tribunal. Tribunal should not be prevented
from considering questions of law arising in assessment proceedings although
not raised earlier.--Jute Corporation of India Ltd. vs. CIT (1990) 88 CTR (SC)
66 : (1991) 187 ITR 688 (SC) : TC 7R.343 applied; CIT vs. Anand Prasad (1981)
128 ITR 388 (Del) : TC 8R.1021, CIT vs. Karamchand Premchand (P) Ltd. (1969)
74 ITR 254 (Guj) : TC 8R.547 and CIT vs. Cellulose Products of India Ltd.
(1985) 44 CTR (Guj) 278 (FB) : (1985) 151 ITR 499 (Guj)(FB) : TC 8R.965
overruled.
(Para 3) The view that the Tribunal is confined only to issues arising out of
appeal before the CIT(A) takes too narrow a view of the powers of the
Tribunal. Undoubtedly, the Tribunal will have the discretion to allow or not
allow a new ground to be raised. But where the Tribunal is only required to
consider a question of law arising from the facts which are on record in the
assessment proceedings such a question should be allowed to be raised when it
is necessary to consider that question in order to correctly assess the tax
liability of an assessee."
Hence, it is appropriate to admit the same as additional evidence for
adjudication for the assessment year 2012-13.  74
18\. The facts of the issue are that the assessee has entered into a Service
Agreement dated 1st April, 2010 with Gamesa Corporation Technologica SA ('GCT
Spain) for availing the following services from GCT Spain:
> 1\. General management services
> 2\. Internal audit and risk services
> 3\. Legal services
> 4\. Commercial, marketing and promotion services
> 5\. Financial management services
> 6\. Operations management services
> 7\. Business development services
> 8\. Human capital management services 18.1 During the course of proceedings
> before the TPO and DRP, the assessee filed detailed submissions inter-alia
> encompassing the following points:
> 1\. The rationale for availing the services from the AE;
> 2\. Copy of the management services agreement;
> 3\. The documentary evidences / justifications to demonstrate that the
> assessee has indeed received the services in the form of email exchanges
> between the assessee and the AE;
> 4\. Summary of the benefits received by the assessee on account of receipt
> of services;
> 5\. Details of department wise management charge along with the basis of
> allocation of costs;
> 6\. Detailed workings pertaining to derivation of allocation rate per hour;
75
> 7\. Corroborative benchmarking analysis conducted by the assessee with AE as
> the tested party, to demonstrate the arm's length nature of pricing of the
> international transaction.
18.2 The assessee also submitted a detailed note on the various services
availed by them under the terms of the agreement. Further, it was also
submitted before the TPO that the AE party had identified the nature of
stewardship/shareholder activities in each of the above department/services
and such costs was excluded and not charged back to the assessee. Since the
commercial value of such services was not quantifiable in exact monetary
terms, the assessee on identification of above services, excluded the cost of
stewardship/shareholding activity in the range of 20 percent to 50 percent
depending on the close nature of activities.
18.3 The TPO computed the ALP of management fee to be Nil citing the
followings reasons:
• The scenario is one of control and hold exercised by the AE over the
affiliates rather than in the form of any services rendered. The costs
incurred by the holding company are charged to affiliates globally on some
basis on the  76 assumption that the AEs exist for the benefit of the
affiliates.
• The costs are allocated to all affiliates principally on the basis of
'revenue' which is based on the principle of 'capacity to pay' rather than on
the basis of the need and extent of services available by the affiliates. • A
multinational enterprise functioning globally may like to co-ordinate with the
affiliates taking into account the principle of optimization of profits. But
such an exercise is not necessarily comparable to a service provided by a
third party professional service provider.
• In the instant case, the ultimate holding company either by itself or
through step down subsidiaries have stakes in affiliates and in pursuit of
such investment interest, constantly exercise control, direction, supervision
and hold over the affiliates. Such a monitoring is not necessitated by the
needs of the affiliates, rather they stem from the inherent interest of the
holding company in the affiliates and the resulting costs need not be passed
on to the affiliates.
77
18.4 The TPO relied on the following decisions without mentioning the
citations and held that the ALP of the management fee is NIL :
a. Gemplus India (P) Ltd. vs. ACIT (Bangalore, ITAT) b. Deolitte Consulting
India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT (Mumbai, ITAT) c. Knorr-Bremse India (P) Ltd. vs. ACIT
(Delhi, ITAT)
19\. The ld. AR submitted that the adoption of CUP as most appropriate method
for benchmarking management service fee by the TPO and determining the ALP to
be Nil. Further, the ld. AR submitted that under the Agreement with AEs, the
assessee availed various services in the nature of legal, administrative,
human resources, finance, business development etc. The services are
specifically rendered by the said entities which act as the global hub for
rendering the corresponding services. The services would either b e rendered
directly by the AEs through its resources or it would employ third party
consultants to render such services. The service fee has been charged on the
basis of allocated cost to all group entities across the globe. It is
pertinent to note that such similar services have not been availed  78 by the
assessee during the year from third party consultants and therefore, there is
no price available to be regarded as 'internal CUP'. Further, due to
confidentiality issues, it is the general practice to undertake such services
through group entities. In addition, GCT Spain has not rendered similar
services to unrelated parties. In addition, it is not practically possible to
determine how much third party consultants would have charged to render
similar services in a routine manner considering the various contingencies
involved in the business. Therefore, the question of adopting CUP as
appropriate method would not arise. The ld. AR relied on the judgment of the
Delhi High Court in the case of Magneti Marelli Powertrain India (P) Ltd. vs.
DCIT, wherein it has been held that in a case where the assessee company had
adopted TNMM for the purposes of benchmarking its profits, adoption of CUP
solely for the purposes of evaluating technical assistance fee would lead to
chaos and be detrimental to the interests of both revenue and the assessee.
Further, the ld. AR submitted that the question of applying CUP would arise
only in a case where the comparison is made with uncontrolled transaction
identified with regard to similar services rendered for  79 the purpose of
transfer pricing. In the instant case, the TPO has merely held that the ALP of
the transaction is Nil without even identifying comparables which is not in
accordance with the methodologies provided in the Rules. The ld. AR, also
relied on the following judgments, wherein it has been held that no transfer
pricing adjustment is warranted in a scenario where the officer has not taken
any step to identify a comparable to determine the ALP :
a. Merck Ltd. vs. DCIT (148 ITD 513 - Mumbai, ITAT) - upheld by Bombay High
Court [ITA 272 of 2014] b. DCIT vs. Flakt India Ltd. [ITA No.1032 of 2014 -
Chennai ITAT] c. Sabic Innovative Plastics India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT [ITA No
1125 of 2014
\- Ahmedabad ITAT] Applying the above principles to the current fact pattern,
the assessee submitted that the action of the TPO in determining the ALP to be
Nil without even identifying a comparable transaction is inappropriate.
Therefore, the ld. AR submitted that the transfer pricing adjustment in this
regards needs to be set aside. 19.1 The ld. AR argued that there is no
transfer pricing adjustment in a scenario where the transactions are at arm's
length in accordance with the methods prescribed under Rule  80 10B. Without
prejudice to the above submission that the said management fee satisfies the
NEED-EVIDENCE-BENEFIT test, the ld. AR submitted that the action of the TPO in
proposing transfer pricing adjustment is not tenable on account of the
following submissions :
• As elaborated above, in the transfer pricing study, the assessee considered
TNMM as the most appropriate method. For the subject asst. year, the PLI of
the assessee is higher as compared to the comparable companies. Further, the
assessee considered CUP as the most appropriate method and contended that
average rate of royalty as per comparable agreements is higher as compared to
the subject royalty rates. Therefore, the assessee arrived at a conclusion
that the royalty paid to its AE is at arm's length.
• The assessee submitted that management service is a critical factor for
undertaking its day to day operations and therefore it is inextricably linked
to its business. Therefore, the determination of ALP of management fee on a
standalone basis is unwarranted in the first place. The  81 TPO has erred in
not appreciating the basis fact that management service is inextricably linked
to business of the assessee and, therefore, benchmarking the PLI at entity
level is sufficient in order to substantiate that the transactions with AE are
at arm's length.
• Further, it is pertinent to note that the methodology adopted by the TPO is
not in accordance with any of the methods prescribed in Rule 10B of the Rules.
In other words, the action of the TPO is beyond his jurisdiction as provided
in the law. In the following decisions, it has been held that where the PLI of
the assessee is determined under TNMM, a separate analysis and consequent
deletion of royalty /technical fee payment is unwarranted : a. DCIT vs. Air
Liquid Engineering India (P) Ltd.(43 Taxman.com 299 (Hyd.)) b.Daksh Business
Process Services (P) Ltd.(Del.,ITAT)(2166/Del./2011) c.DCIT vs. Cornell
Overseas (P) Ltd. (Del., ITAT)(2166/Del/2011) 19.2 The ld. AR, reiterated the
submission stated above, in respect of jurisdictional of the TPO to determine
the commercial expediency of the assessee and submitted that the TPO has  82
remarked that the assessee has not substantiated the NEED- EVIDENCE-BENEFIT in
relation to management fee. Further, the ld. AR submitted that the said
transaction satisfies all the tests, the tax authorities have no jurisdiction
to question the commercial expediency of the transactions. In other words, the
TPO has the limited responsibility of computing the arm's length price of the
transactions consideration the methods prescribed in the Act read with Rules.
The said principle has been laid down in the following decision:
a. Hive Communication (P) Ltd. vs. CIT (Delhi)(353 ITR 200) b. CIT vs. EKL
Appliances Ltd. (Delhi HC)(345 ITR 241) c. CIT vs. Computer Graphics
Ltd.Madras HC)(155 Taxmann 612) d. Showa India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT (Delhi,
ITAT)(166/Del/2013,dt.30.06.2016) Therefore, the ld. AR submitted that the
jurisdiction of the TPO does not extend to stepping into the shoes of the
assessee and determining the necessity of incurrence of expenditure and the
contention of the TPO that there is no necessity on the part of the assessee
to avail the management fee is unwarranted in the first place.
83
19.3 Without prejudice to the submission that the assessee has availed
substantial benefits on account of management service, the ld. AR submitted
that the assessee has entered into agreement with GCT Spain for the purpose of
availing services in the avenues of finance, legal assistance, advisory,
operations management, business development etc. It is pertinent to note that
all the operating companies belonging to the Group have executed similar
agreement with GCT Spain to avail benefits in the form of global consistency
in business, improvement in efficiency and access to common skill set and
centralized portals etc. It is pertinent to note that the benefits arising out
of the services are intangible in nature. The ld. AR submitted that the model
of availing services from a centralized hub is a common phenomenon in all
multinational corporations and it is critical for the assessee to avail such
services in order to sustain in the market. Further, given that it is an
ongoing activity carried on by the AE and considering the fact that the
benefits availed by the assessee are intangible in nature which cannot be
measured in monetary terms in all scenarios. Therefore, according to the ld.
AR, the questioning of examining the benefits availed by the  84 assessee out
of such services would not arise in the first place. The ld. AR, further
submitted that even in case of availing services from a third party service
provider, the resulting benefit cannot be assured and the assessee pays for
the expertise of the service provider which may or may not result in
substantial benefits having monetary impact. To support his view, the ld. AR
relied on the following decisions, wherein the Courts and the Tribunal have
held that benefit test is not a pre-condition to determine the genuineness or
ALP of expenditure:
> a. RAK Ceramics India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT (Hyd., ITAT)[ITA No.1492/2014 dated
> 04.02.2015] - upheld by Andhra Pradesh High Court [in ITA No.595 of 2016] b.
> TNS India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT (ITA No.944/Hyd./2007 dated 22.01.2014) 19.4
> Regarding need for availing management service from GCT Spain, the ld. AR,
> submitted that in the current era of globalization, centralization of costs
> lead to significant group cost savings. Gamesa Group is a multinational
> group, which has its headquarters in Spain. The Group is dedicated to the
> manufacturing, sale, operation and maintenance of wind turbine  85
> generators, as well as in the development of wind farms. Its business covers
> all items of the wind value chain: design, manufacture, construction,
> Balance of Plant (BOP - also known as civil works for wind farms-),
> development, additional services and operation and maintenance (O&M) of wind
> farms. According to the ld. AR, as per the Gamesa Group corporate policy,
> all central activities are carried out by GCT and where necessary, GCT
> obtains the assistance of third party vendors in providing the central
> services in the nature of management activities. The affiliates companies
> (which include the assessee) obtain advice and assistance from GCT and the
> cost incurred (GCT owns cost and cost charged by third party vendors) were
> charged to all the group companies. GCT has tremendous managerial talent and
> experience in the field of Wind Turbine industry. It has senior
> professionals with lots of years of experience in the field. As a new player
> in India, there was a critical need for the assessee to draw managerial
> services from this entity to face the challenges in the emerging market like
> India, where the market is very early phase of development and challenging.
> With further expansion of manufacturing operations and globalization of
> customer  86 activities, it was essential for the assessee to adopt a global
> approach for its own activities to serve its global customer base and
> maintain competitive position in the market. It would have been difficult
> for the assessee to procure the services from third party service providers
> which are group and product specific.
Therefore, the assessee availed the services from its AEs instead of
approaching any third party service provider. Given that the services are
peculiar and can be rendered only by the AEs by way of pooling the resources
at group level, the contention of the TPO that it is merely in the nature of
shareholder activity is baseless. Further, due to confidentiality issues, it
is the general practice to undertake such services through group entities.
Further, the assessee has substantiated that the services have actually been
rendered by its AE and established the underlying benefit derived out of such
services. Description of need, benefit on account of management service is
captured. Therefore, the contention of the TPO and DRP that there is no
requirement to avail management service from its AE is inappropriate.
87
19.5 In respect of benefits derived by the assessee on account of the
management services, the ld. AR submitted that the subject year was the second
year of commercial operations of Gamesa India. This year saw a huge increase
in the assessee's turnover with increased activity due to new WTG Model G-58
in India coupled with new wind farm development in this year. To meet this
increased activity, the assessee had to avail professional support services in
the nature of management support (general, legal, operational etc.). The AE
possessed in- depth knowledge and understanding about the wind industry and
the business realities. Therefore, the assessee being part of the Gamesa
Group, obtained the centralized support services from the AE. Further, the ld.
AR, submitted that the assessee produced the copy of mail correspondences and
reports evidencing the rendition of management services and underlying
benefits availed by the assessee. Description of need, benefit on account of
management service in relation to each of the service is captured. The ld. AR
relied on the decision of the Tribunal, Delhi Bench, in the case of Showa
India (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT [ITA No.166 of 2013], wherein it has been held that
where the  88 assessee has produced the documents/evidence, the TPO cannot by
any stretch of imagination hold that the evidences are irrelevant, without
even perusing such evidences. Further, the Tribunal recognized the principle
that the TPO has no jurisdiction to question the commercial expediency of
transactions entered into by the assessee company.
19.6 The ld. AR, submitted that allocation of cost based on turnover of AEs
cannot be a factor to propose transfer pricing adjustments. In the transfer
pricing order, the TPO remarked that the costs are allocated to all affiliates
principally on the basis of 'revenue' which is based on the principle of
'capacity to pay' rather than on the basis of the need and extent of services
availed by the affiliates. In this regard, the ld. AR, submitted that under
the provisions of sec.92CA of the Act, the TPO has the authority to determine
the ALP of the transactions undertaken by the assessee. The jurisdiction of
the TPO cannot extend to decide the basis of charge/allocation of expenses. In
the instant case, the TPO ought to have confined his jurisdiction in
determining whether the costs allocated by GCT Spain are at arm's length or
not. For the purposes of benchmarking the  89 profits, the assessee considered
TNMM as the most appropriate method and the PLI of the assessee is higher than
that of the comparable companies. Recently, in the case of Durr India (P) Ltd.
[ITA No.754/Mds/2014], the co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal held that
allocation of cost partly on the basis of turnover and net profit cannot be
considered as a factor to propose transfer pricing adjustment. The Bench has
held that where the PLI of the assessee under TNMM is at arm's length and it
is not possible on the part of the department to identify a comparable
rendering similar services, the question of considering CUP method would not
arise at all. Interestingly, in the said decision, a portion of cost (50%) has
been allocated on the proportion of net profits of the group entities. As a
result, only companies having profits would suffer such cost whereas companies
that have incurred loss would not remit the same. Even in a scenario where net
profit is considered as allocation key, the co-ordinate Bench has held that no
transfer pricing adjustment is required on management fee in a scenario where
the PLI of the assessee company is at arm's length as compared to its
comparables. Relevant extracts of the decision are  90 captured. Applying the
rationale, the ld. AR, submitted that the allegation of the TPO in holding
that the mechanism adopted by the assesseeis based on the principle of
'capacity to pay' is baseless. The TPO has no jurisdiction to question the
allocation methodology adopted by the assessee. In other words, the TPO should
have confined his jurisdiction only to the extent of determining ALP. Further,
in the said decision, the Tribunal has specifically held that CUP cannot be
considered as method for determination of ALP of management fee in a case
where the PLI of the assessee is at arm's length.
19.7 According to the ld. AR, there is no transfer pricing adjustment in
respect of transactions which are otherwise considered as genuine for tax
purposes. The ld. AR submitted that management fee is not tax free. In other
words, the assessee has been remitting service tax on reverse charge mechanism
(being receiver of service). Further, the assessee has obtained a Nil
withholding certificate from the tax authorities. The said principle has been
laid down by the Tribunal, Chennai Bench, in the case of Aban Offshore Ltd.
vs. DCIT [ITA No.585 of  91 2015], wherein the Tribunal has held that any
payment which is systematically subject to deduction of tax at source cannot
be said to be non-genuine. Therefore, the ld. AR, submitted that the TPO has
no jurisdiction to question the genuineness of management fee since it has
been subject matter of service tax and specific lower tax deduction
certificate has been availed.
20\. The ld. DR submitted that the basic issue before the TPO was to determine
ALP of the fee paid by the assessee. For determining the ALP of the
transaction, a proper show cause notice was issued and served upon the
assessee. The assessee has only referred to the service agreement, summary of
the cost allocation among various services provided and copy of the various
invoices/debit notes/credit notes raised during the relevant year under
consideration; however the queries of the TPO still remained unanswered. When
the assessee is paying on cost to cost basis to AE, then where are the actual
details of the cost, how assessee has calculated that the invoice raised by AE
is correct, when details of costs are not available to it? Where such a
transaction at arm's length, the assessee would have asked for the complete
details of the cost incurred by the  92 AE before accepting the amount claimed
by AE from it. However, assessee has not brought on record any such details to
satisfy the TPO. Documents relied upon by the assessee are thus just
unsupported piece of papers, without any evidentiary value. So there doesn't
appear to be any arbitrariness on the part of the TPO. This is not the claim
of the TPO that the assessee should not have taken some or any services, but
the issue is the value of such services at arm's length and the quantum of
services actually received by the assessee. The agreement between related
parties and the invoices raised there from cannot be considered adequate and
sufficient evidenced of service performance. Thus, it is observed that the
basic evidence to support the claim of costs incurred at the AE's end are not
available for verification. This is the very minimum that the TPO is required
to investigate to establish whether the cost allocated as per predetermined
keys is reasonable/legitimate or not. No evidence from the books of the AE
with regard to its costs, both direct and indirect and the primary documents
maintained by the AE in support of this claim in its books, has been produced
by the assessee either before the TPO or before  93 the Panel; for
verification of this important and key ingredient in the TP analysis. As
discussed by the TPO in his order, the assessee has failed to substantiate its
claim of having received any such services which were for its own business
interest. The services rendered, if any, are in the nature of control and hold
to be exercised by the AE over its affiliates. So the objections of the
assessee are not accepted. The reliance of the TPO on the decision of Gemplus
India (supra) as well as other cases is also well placed. In Gemplus India
(supra) the order of the TPO was upheld under similar circumstances.
20.1 The ld. DR, submitted that the assessee is seeking to justify the payment
of management service fee on the ground that even after payment of these
amounts, the net margins of the assessee was more than that of comparable
companies in the same industry. This is a specious argument. The profits of
the Indian entity are due to the efforts of this entity and consequently, the
entire profits are taxable in India even if the margins are above the arm's
length level. This does not in any way impact on the royalty and management
service fee. The need for incurring such expenses and the benefits accruing as
a  94 result are needed to be justified on a stand-alone basis without taking
recourse to the argument of availability of sufficient profits. These are two
separate issues and are needed to be dealt with separately. In any case, the
assessee could not substantiate the need-benefit analysis before the TPO as a
result of which downward adjustments were proposed in respect of royalty and
management service fee. The transactions can be aggregated only if they are
intricately intertwined and cannot be separately analyzed. This is not the
case here. Moreover, aggregated approach to transfer pricing analysis is the
exception rather than the norm. This issue has been dealt with extensively by
the DRP in its order dated 24.3.2007. The DRP has quoted the case laws to
reject the assessee's objections in this regard. The Guidelines of 2010 has
also taken the view that as far as possible, transactions are to be evaluated
separately. 20.2 The ld. DR, further submitted that the TPO has not sought to
question the commercial expediency of the management fee. What has been done
is to compare the circumstances surrounding the payment and the services said
to have received with an independent party in the uncontrolled  95 situation.
After analyzing the agreement and other documents in this regard, the TPO has
come to the conclusion that the transaction was not at arm's length as an
independent entity would not have agreed to shoulder the liability for
services which do not the benefit to it. Only a cost-benefit analysis has been
undertaken from the perspective of arm's length and the commercial expediency
of entering into the agreement was never questioned. The DRP has analyzed the
transaction in details and has come to the conclusion that the services which
the AE is supported to render to the assessee are general and non-specific and
the assessee also failed to furnish documents called for by the DRP.
20.3 The ld. DR, also submitted that in the analysis of services rendered by a
group company to one or more group companies, it requires the economic value
or commercial contribution and the benefit which can made a difference in the
commercial position of the service receiver to be analyzed. This concept
called benefit test, which takes place in the OECD guidelines and the
importance of the test in questions emphasized in for  96 justification of the
performance of intra-group services. OECD guidelines state that a payment made
by a group company does not constitute a sufficient evidence for the provision
of the services in return for the payment. Moreover, it is also stated that
absence of payment or agreement between the parties regarding the services
does not mean that the services have not been rendered. In this case, the
service agreements are available for intra-group services but conduct of the
parties is in question. The need for the services from the perspective e of
the purchasing entity must be evaluated in order to determine that the intra-
group services has in fact been received which constitutes the basis of the
benefit test concept. In order to determine whether an intra-group service has
been rendered, it is necessary to examine whether the service in question
provides a commercial or economic value that would strengthen the commercial
position of the receiving entity. Hence, the assessee's contention regarding
the need benefit test is not acceptable. In this context the following OECD
Guidelines (para No.79, page No.207) :
"In a narrow range of such case, an intra group activity may be performed
relating to group members even though those group  97 members do not need the
activity (and would not be willing to pay for it were they independent
enterprises). Such an activity would be one that a group members, i.e. in its
capacity as shareholder. This type of activity would not justify a charge to
the recipient companies" assumes significance."
The European Union Joint Transfer Pricing Forum (JTPF), in their summit at
Brussels on 04.02.2010 on the "Guidelines on low value adding Intra-Group
Services" has discussed this issue elaborately. It says that Costs of
managerial and control (monitoring) activities related to the management and
protection of the investments in participations are of shareholders activities
only and these costs are to be classified as shareholders cost only.
20.4 Hence, the ld. DR, submitted that the benefit received from such
stewardship services can only be considered as 'incidental benefits' as per
the OECD guidelines and do not require a separate payment. The relevant para
No.7 of OECD guidelines states that :
"The incidental benefits ordinarily would not cause these other group members
to be treated as receiving on intra-group service because the activities
producing the benefits would not be ones for which an independent enterprise
ordinarily would be willing to pay".  98 The ld. DR further submitted that it
is the responsibility of the assessee to prove the receipt of service with
supporting documents. According to the ld. DR, the assessee has failed to
submit the documentation to substantiate to prove the receipt of service and
need for such service. In the absence of evidences and the services received
are in the nature of routine services from a shareholder the TPO determined
the ALP as nil because the services are not be ones for which an independent
enterprise ordinarily would be willing to pay. The ld. DR also submitted that
the purpose of transfer pricing analysis is to ensure that the Indian tax
jurisdiction gets its due share of taxes in the International transactions
carried by the Indian companies with its AEs abroad. So the TPO should
consider all the aspects which may affect due share of taxes to Indian tax
jurisdiction. 20.5 We have heard both the parties and perused the material on
record. In our considered opinion, transaction to transaction approach is not
required if the Profit Level Indicator ('PLI) of assessee at entity segment
level is at arm's length where the  99 assessee company has adopted TNMM for
the purposes of bench marking, its adoption of CUP solely for the purposes of
evaluating technical assistance fee would lead to chaos and be detrimental to
the interests of both revenue and the assessee. In other words, once the arm's
length criterion is tested at entity level, the learned TPO has no
jurisdiction to examine the need, benefit etc in relation to each transaction.
This view was supported by the judgement of Delhi High Court in the case of
Magnetic Marelli Powertrain India (P) Ltd. vs DCIT [389 ITR 469] (Delhi HC)
wherein held that:-
17\. As far as the second question is concerned, the TPO accepted TNMM applied
by the assessee, as the most appropriate method in respect of all the
international transactions including payment of royalty. The TPO, however,
disputed application of TNMM as the most appropriate method for the payment of
technical assistance fee of Rs. 38,58,80,000 only for which Comparable
Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method was sought to be applied. Here, this court
concurs with the assessee that having accepted the TNMM as the most
appropriate, it was not open to the TPO to subject only one element, i.e
payment of technical assistance fee, to an entirely different (CUP) method.
The adoption of a method as the most appropriate one assures the applicability
of one standard or criteria to judge an international transaction by. Each
method is a package in itself, as it were, containing the necessary elements
that are to be used as filters to judge the soundness of the international
transaction in an ALP fixing exercise. If this were to be disturbed, the end
result would be distorted and within one ALP determination for a year, two or
even five methods can be adopted. This would spell chaos and be detrimental to
the interests of both the assessee and the revenue. The second question is,
therefore, answered in favour of the assessee; the TNMM had to be applied by
the TPO/AO in respect of the technical fee payment too."
100
20.5.1 In the case of DCIT vs Air Liquide Engineering India (P) Ltd. [152 lTD
157) (Hyderabad ITAT) held that:-
> "33. The TPO has made the disallowance in question mainly on the basis of
> the benefit test. In this regard, it is seen that the payment of royalty
> cannot be examined divorced from the production and sales. Royalty is
> inextricably linked with these activities. In the absence of production and
> sale of products, there would be no question arising regarding payment of
> any royalty. Rule 10A(d) of the ITAT Rules defines 'transaction' as a number
> of closely linked transactions. Royalty, then, is a transaction closely
> linked with production and sales. ft cannot be segregated from these
> activities of an enterprise, being embedded therein. That being so, royalty
> cannot be considered and examined in isolation on a standalone basis.
> Royalty is to be calculated on a specified agreed basis, on determining the
> net sales which, in the present case, are required to be determined after
> excluding the amounts of standard bought out components, etc., since such
> net sales do not stand recorded by the assessee in its books of account.
> Therefore, it is our considered opinion that the assessee was correct in
> employing an overall TNMM for examining the royalty. The TPO worked out the
> difference in the PU of the outside party (the assessee) at 4.09% and the
> comparables at 7.05%. This has not been shown to fall outside the
> permissible range.
> 34\. The decision of the Tribunal in 'Ekla Appliances', 2012- TH-01-HCDe1-
> TP, has been sought to be distinguished by the TPO, observing that the facts
> in that case are not in pan matena with those of the assessee's case.
> However, therein also, the benefit test had been applied by the TPO, as in
> the present case. The matter was carried in appeal before the Hon'ble High
> Court. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that the so-called benefit test
> cannot be applied to determine the ALP of royalty payment at nil and that
> the TPO could apply only one of the methods prescribed under the law. A
> similar view has been taken in 'Sona Okegawa Precision Forgings Ltd.'
> (supra) and in 'KHS Machinery Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO', 53 SOT 100 (Ahm) (URO).
> 35\. It is, thus, seen that the royalty payment @ 3% by the assessee is at
> arm's length. The Technical Collaboration Agreement stands approved by the
> Government of India. The royalty payment has been accepted by the department
> as having been made by the assessee wholly and exclusively for its business
> purposes. For Assessment Years  101 2004-05 and 2005-06, such payment of
> royalty has been allowed by the CIT (A). As per the FEMA Regulations,
> royalty can be paid on net sales @ 5% on domestic sales and @ 8% on export
> sales. The royalty payment by the assessee falls within these limits. ft
> also falls within the limits of payment of royalty in the auto mobile
> sector, as per the market trend. This payment of royalty is at the same
> percentage as that paid by other auto ancillaries in the automotive
> industry. Then, in 'Ekia Appliances' (supra) and in 'Ericsson India Pvt.
> Ltd. vs. DCIT', 2012-TII-48-ITAT-Del- TP, it has been held that royalty
> payment cannot be disallowed on the basis of the so-called benefit test and
> the domain of the TPO is only to examine as to whether the payment based on
> the agreement adheres to the arm's length principle or not. That being so,
> the action of the TPO in the present case, to make the disallowance mainly
> on the ground of the benefit test, is unsustainable in law.
> 36\. Keeping in view all the above factors, the disallowance made on account
> of royalty is found to be totally uncalled for and it is deleted as such.
> ... ".
21\. Hence, following the ratio of the Honb'le Delhi High Court in CIT vs. EKL
Appliances (supra) and various other decisions as noted above and given the
facts and circumstances of the instant case, we hold that the addition made by
the TPO and upheld by the DRP is unsustainable and is to be deleted. Hence
Ground No. 2 is held in favour of the assessee. Hence, the appeal of the
Revenue ITA.No.1040/Hyd/2011 is dismissed and Assessee's appeal in
ITA.No.1159/Hyd/2011 is allowed." 20.5.2 In the case of ACIT vs Sakata Inx
(India) Ltd. (Jaipur) ITA No. 376/JP/2012] wherein held that:- "2.9 We have
heard the rival contentions and perused the material available on record. In
our considered view, there is no infirmity in the order of Ld.CIT(A) in as
much as:
(i) ld.D.R could not justify the application of CUP method to Arm's Length
working.
102
(ii) The products manufactured by the appellant were developed from technology
support provided by the AE, it would not have been possible so without the
continuous AE support. The rights of access to the ongoing technical support
and development of new products received by the appellant were clearly
provided in the agreements entered into with the AE.
(iii) The cost benefit test as worked out by the TPO was not based on proper
appreciation of the facts and thus CUP method applied by the AO/TPO was not
justifiable.
(iv) The judicial citations relied on by Ld.CIT(A) as well as further
judgements relied on by the assessee including Hon'ble High Court in the case
of Delhi EKL appliance Ltd.(Supra) support the view taken by Ld.CIT(A).
In view of the foregoing, we uphold the order of the CIT(Appeals) and dismiss
the revenue's appeal."
20.6 In our considered opinion, ALP of management service cannot be said to be
Nil in the absence of a valid comparable. Since no effort had been made by TPO
to determine market value of services received by assessee, adjustment made by
TPO as a disallowance of expense could not be upheld. In other words, the TPO
cannot simply arrive at a conclusion that quality and volume of services
received by the Appellant were not commensurate with payment made by the
Appellant. This view is fortified by the order of Tribunal in the case of
Merck Ltd. vs DCIT [148 lTD 513] (Mumbai) - upheld by Bombay High Court [ITA
272 of 2014]  103 24.7 Such argument in our view is not convincing. The
argument would have been valid if fees was fixed in respect of each service,
which was compulsorily required tobe provided to the assessee, but it is not
so in the present case. The agreement listed certain services on which the
assessee requires guidance/assistance from time to time. The assessee was thus
entitled to any of the services as and when required. Therefore, applying CUP
method to the service not availed by the assessee during the year is not
justified. It would have been appropriate if the AO had applied CUP method to
the payment made during the year by the assessee for the three services and
compared with similar payment for such services by an independent party. No
efforts have been made by TPO/AO to determine the market value of services
received by the assessee during the year relating to SAP implementation and
quality control to show that the assessee had paid more compared to any
independent party for the same services. The assessee had submitted that in
case the assessee had paid to the AE at man hour rate for the technical
services provided during the year in relation to SAP implementation, the fees
payable would have been significantly higher. There is nothing produced before
us to controvert the said claim. The assessee has applied TNMM which shows
that the margin shown by the assessee was higher than the comparable
companies. The case of the assessee is also supported by the decision of
Tribunal in case of Mc Can Erricson India Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) in which the
decision of TPO to take the value of cergain services at nil has not been
upheld. Considering the entirity of facts and circumstances, the adjustment
made by TPO which is nothing but disallowance of expenses cannot be upheld.
We, therefore, set aside the order of CIT (A) on this point and delete the
addition made.
20.7 Further, this view was supported by the decision of Co- ordinate Bench,
Chennai in the case of DCIT vs Flakt India Ltd.,  104 vide order dated 9th
June, 2016 for assessment year 2009-10 and in the case of Da Business Process
Services (P) Ltd. vs DCIT ITAT in ITA No. 2166 of 2011.
20.8 In our considered opinion, Jurisdiction of the TPO is to determine the
commercial expediency and necessity in the hands of the assessee. The learned
TPO has remarked that the Assessee has not substantiated the necessity to
incur such expenditure. In this regard, it is pertinent to note that the
business transactions of the Assesses taken place in the ordinary course,
which cannot be questioned by the TPO. Further, the learned TPO cannot
conclude based on mere assumptions without examining the commercial expediency
of the assessee. This view is fortified by the judgments/order of the various
courts as below:-
i) Hive Communication (P) Ltd. vs CIT [353 ITR 200] (Deli HC) CIT vs EKL
Appliances Ltd. [345 ITR 241] (Deli HC)
ii) CIT v Computer Graphics Ltd [155 Taxman 612] 20.9 In our considered
opinion, benefit test is not a pre- condition for justifying arm's length
price. Under Rule 10B of the  105 Income Tax Rules, 1962 which deals with
'Determination of the arm's length price', there is no mention of the 'benefit
test' being adopted for the purpose of determining such arm's length price. It
is not a pre-condition to conclude that the payment is within arm's length. In
other words, the TPO cannot apply the benefit test for determining ALP as he
cannot assess the benefit derived by assessee in a particular transaction.
This view is fortified by the following judgments:-
(i) R.A.K Ceramics India Pvt. Ltd. vs DCIT (Hyderabad) (ITA No. 1492/2014
dt.4.02.2015) which was upheld by Andhra Pradesh High court [ITA No. 595 of
2016]-
> "10. We are really surprised to see the reasoning of TPO in fixing the ALP
> of royalty payment at 2%. It is manifest from TPO's order he has rejected
> assessee's TP analysis under TNMM. Further, in para 6.4 of his order, TPO
> has mentioned of undertaking an independent analysis under TNMM for
> selecting comparables and determining ALP. However, even after repeatedly
> scanning through his order, we failed to find any such analysis being done
> by him.
Similarly, though in para 5.1.1, ld. DRP has observed that TPO has benchmarked
intangible transactions by using CUP, but, the order passed by TPO does not
support such conclusion. It is an accepted principle of law that TPO has to
determine the ALP by adopting any one of the methods prescribed u/s 92C of the
Act. Mode and manner of computation of ALP under different methods have been
laid down in rule 10B. Even, assuming that TPO has followed CUP  106 method
for determining ALP of royalty payment, as held by ld. DRP, it needs to be
examined if it is strictly in compliance with statutory provisions. Rule
10B(1)(a) lays down the procedure for determining ALP under CUP method. As per
the said provision, TPO at first has to find out the price charged or paid for
property transferred or services provided in a comparable uncontrolled
transaction, or a number of such transactions. Thereafter, making necessary
adjustments to such price, on account of differences between the international
transaction and comparable uncontrolled transactions or between the
enterprises entering into such transactions, which could materially affect the
price in the open market, TPO will determine the ALP. It is patent and obvious
from TPO's order, the determination of ALP at 2% is not at all in conformity
with Rule 10B(1)(a). The TPO has not brought even a single comparable to
justify arm's length percentage of royalty at 2% either under CUP or TNMM
method. On the contrary, observations made by TPO gives ample scope to
conclude that adoption of royalty at 2% is neither on the basis of any
approved method nor any reasonable basis. Rather it is on adhoc or estimate
basis, hence, not in accordance with statutory provisions. The approach of TPO
in estimating royalty at 2% by applying the benefit test, in our view, is not
only in complete violation of TP provisions but against the settled principles
of law. ITAT, Mumbai Bench in case of M/s Castrol India Ltd. Vs. Additional
CITY, ITA No. 1292/Mum/2007 dated 20/12/2013 while examining identical issue
of determination of ALP at 'Nil' by applying the benefit test held as under:
"11. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the relevant
material on record. It is observed that the impugned royalty was paid by the
assessee company to its AE namely Castrol Ltd. UK at 3.5 % of the net
exfactory sale price of products manufactured and sold in India as per the
technical collaboration  107 agreement. This international transaction
involving payment of royalty to its AE was bench-marked by the assessee R.A.K.
Ceramics India P. Ltd. by following CUP method in its TP study report and
since average rate of royalty of three comparables selected by it was higher
at 4.67% than the rate at which royalty was paid by the assessee to its AE,
the transaction involving payment of royalty was claimed to be at arm's
length. A perusal of the order passed by the TPO u/s 92CA (3) of the Act shows
that neither these comparables selected by the assessee in its TP study report
were rejected by her nor any new comparables were selected by her by making a
fresh search in order to show that the payment of royalty by the assessee to
its AE was not at arm's length. She simply relied on the approval of SIA to
hold that any royalty paid by the assessee on exports and other income was not
allowable and disallowed the royalty payment to the extent of Rs. 40,51,486/-
treating the same as the royalty paid by the assessee in respect of exports
sale and other income. We are unable to agree with this strange method
followed by the TPO to make a TP adjustment in respect of royalty payment
which is not sustainable either in law or on the facts of the case. She has
neither rejected the method followed by the assessee to bench-mark the
transaction in respect of payment of royalty nor has been adopted any
recognized method to determine the ALP of the said transactions. The approval
of SIA adopted by the TPO as basis to make TP adjustment in respect of royalty
payment was untenable and even going by the said basis wrongly adopted by the
TPO, no TP adjustment in respect of royalty payment was liable to be made. As
per the said basis, the net sales of the assessee after excluding export sale
and other income were to the extent of Rs. 1118.70 crores and the royalty paid
thereon at Rs. 24.38 crore being less than the rate of 3.5% approved by SIA,
there was no case of any excess payment made of royalty by assessee than
approved by SIA to justify its disallowance by way of TP adjustment. In our
opinion, the ld. CIT (A) could not appreciate these infirmities in the order
of the TPO despite the same were specifically brought to his notice on behalf
of the assessee and confirmed the TP adjustment made by the TPO in respect of
royalty payment which was totally unjustified. We therefore, delete the
addition made by the AO/TPO and confirmed by the ld. CIT on account of TP
adjustment in respect of royalty payment and allow ground no. 3 of the
assessee's appeal."
(ii) TNS India Pvt. Ltd. vs ACIT [ITA No. 944/Hyd.2007, dated 22.01.2014  108
"16. We have considered the issue. We are unable to accept the contention of
the Assessing Officer/TPO with reference to the services provided by AEs.
Assessee has provided the agreements which were entered not during the year
but in earlier year and has been paying the service fee termed as management
fee accordingly. This claim is not arising for the first time in this year
but, is also there in earlier years and later years. Assessee is part of a
worldwide group and they have placed some corporate centers for guidance of
various units run by them across the globe. It was submitted that the costs
being incurred by the centers are being shared by various units and assessee's
share in this year has come to 5% of the receipts payable to NFO Worldwide Inc
USA and at 4% to NFO Asia Pacific Ltd. Hongkong on the net revenues. These
amounts are within the norms prescribed for payment of fees to various group
companies of similar nature. There is no dispute with reference to services
being provided by the group companies to assessee and assessee also paid
various other amounts including royalty. As submitted by assessee, even though
some correspondence was placed on record with reference to the advise given to
assessee, providing a concrete evidence with reference to the services in the
nature of specific activities is difficult, like proving the role of an
anesthesian in an operation conducted by a surgeon. There may be an evidence
of operation being performed by the Doctor in the form of sutures or scars
etc, which can be proved later but the role of an anesthesian before operation
and after gaining consciousness is difficult to prove as that is not tangible
in nature. Likewise, for the advise given by various group centers to the
group companies in day-to-day manner is difficult to place on record by way of
concrete evidence but the way business is conducted, one can perceive the
same. Assessee has given a detailed write-up as well as the services provided
and benefit obtained which were not contradicted. The Assessing Officer did
not believe the same in the absence of concrete evidence. Unless the Assessing
Officer steps into assessee's business premises and observes the role of these
companies/ assessee's business transactions, it will be difficult to place on
record the sort of advice given  109 in day-to-day operations. What sort of
evidence satisfies the AO is also not specified. Assessee has already placed
lot of evidence in support of claims. Therefore, on that count, we are not in
agreement with the Assessing Officer and TPO that services were not rendered
by the group companies to assessee.
16.1. Even otherwise, the role of Transfer pricing Officer is to determine the
arms length price of a transaction. He cannot reject the entire payment under
the provisions of sec. 92CA as held by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the
case of EKL Appliances ltd (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, on
similar facts where the TPO also determined the ALP at Nil, has held as under
:
"21. The position emerging from the above decisions is that it is not
necessary for assessee to show that any legitimate expenditure incurred by him
was also incurred out of necessity. It is also not necessary for assessee to
show that any ϭϱ ITA.No.944/H/07, 194 & 74/H/08, 793/H/09, 654,655/H/10 &
7/H/2012 TNS India Pvt. Ltd. expenditure incurred by him for the purpose of
business carried on by him has actually resulted in profit or income either in
the same year or in any of the subsequent years. The only condition is that
the expenditure should have been incurred "wholly and exclusively" for the
purpose of business and nothing more. It is this principle that inter alia
finds expression in the OECD guidelines, in the paragraphs which we have
quoted above.
22\. Even Rule IOB(l)(a) does not authorise disallowance of any expenditure on
the ground that it was not necessary or prudent for assessee to have incurred
the same or that in the view of the Revenue the expenditure was unremunerative
or that in view of the continued losses suffered by assessee in his business,
he could have fared better had he not incurred such expenditure. These are
irrelevant considerations for the purpose of Rule lOB. Whether or not to enter
into the transaction is for assessee to decide. The quantum of expenditure can
no doubt be examined by the TPO as per law but in judging the allowability
thereof as business expenditure, he has no authority to disallow the entire
expenditure or a part thereof on the ground that assessee has suffered
continuous losses. The financial health of assessee can never be a criterion
to judge allowability of an expense; there is certainly no authority for that.
What the TPO has done in the present case is to hold that assessee ought not
to have entered into the agreement to pay royalty/brand fee, because it has
been  110 suffering losses continuously. So long as the expenditure or payment
has been demonstrated to have been incurred or laid out for the purposes of
business, it is no concern of the TPO to disallow the same on any extraneous
reasoning. As provided in the OECD guidelines, he is expected to examine the
international transaction as he actually finds the same and then make suitable
adjustment but a wholesale disallowance of the expenditure, particularly on
the grounds which have been given by the TPO is not contemplated or
authorized.
23\. Apart from the legal position stated above, even on merits the
disallowance of the entire brand fee / royalty payment was not warranted.
Assessee has furnished copious material and valid reasons as to why it was
suffering losses continuously and these have been referred to by us earlier.
Full justification supported by facts and figures have been given to
demonstrate that the increase in the employees cost, finance charges,
administrative expenses, depreciation cost and capacity increase have
contributed to the continuous losses. The comparative position over a period
of 5 years from 1998 to 2003 with relevant figures have been given before the
CIT (Appeals) and they are referred to in a tabular form in his order in
paragraph 5.5.1. In fact there are four tabular statements furnished by
assessee before the CIT (Appeals) in support of the reasons for the continuous
losses. There is no material brought by the revenue either before the CIT
(Appeals) or before the Tribunal or even before us to show that these are
incorrect figures or that even on merits the reasons for the losses are not
genuine.
24\. We are, therefore, unable to hold that the Tribunal committed any error
in confirming the order of the CIT (Appeals) for both the years deleting the
disallowance of the brand fee royalty payment while determining the ALP.
Accordingly, the substantial questions of law are answered in the affirmative
and in favour of assessee and against the Revenue. The appeals are accordingly
dismissed with no order as to costs".
20.10 In our considered opinion, centralization of costs leads to significant
group cost savings. It would be difficult for the Applicant to procure the
services from third party service providers which are specific to the group
and products. Given that the services are peculiar and can be rendered only by
the  111 AEs by way of pooling the resources at group level, the contention of
the learned TPO that it is merely in the nature of shareholder activity is
baseless. Further, due to confidentiality issues, it is the general practice
to undertake such services through group entities. The Appellant has
substantiated that the services have actually been rendered by its AE and
established the underlying benefit derived out of such services. Description
of need, benefit on account of management service is captured in Page 660 to
680 of Paper book Volume11. Therefore, the contention of the learned TPO and
DRP that there is no requirement to avail management service from its AE is
inappropriate. The Applicant has submitted the copies of invoice and
elaborates the list of services rendered by the AE and basis of charging
management fee. Further, the Assessee has submitted the copy of various mail
correspondences which evidences rendition of management services by its AE.
Sample mail correspondences and reports shared by the AE evidencing the actual
rendition of management service is furnished in Paper book Volume-3. In our
considered opinion where appropriate evidences have been provided by the
Appellant, the action of  112 the learned TPO in holding that the ALP of
management fee is Nil is unwarranted as held by the Delhi Tribunal in the case
of Showa India (P) Ltd. vs DCIT in ITA No.166 of 2013 dt. 30.06.2016.
20.11 The ld. A.R submitted that under the provisions of section 92CA of the
Act, the learned TPO has the authority to determine the arm's length price of
the transactions undertaken by the assessee. The jurisdiction of the learned
TPO cannot extend to decide the basis of charge/ allocation of expenses. In
the instant case, the learned TPO ought to have confined his jurisdiction in
determining whether the cost allocated by GCT Spain is at arm's length or not.
20.12 For the purposes of benchmarking the profits, the Appellant considered
TNMM as the most appropriate method and the PLI of the Appellant is higher
than that of the comparable companies. Recently, in the case of Durr India (P)
Ltd in ITA. No. 754/Mds/2014 dated 21.12.2016, the co-ordinate Bench of
Tribunal held that allocation of cost partly  113 on the basis of turnover and
net profit cannot be considered as a factor to propose transfer pricing
adjustment. Further, it was held that where the PLI of the Appellant under
TNMM is at arm's length and it is not possible on the part of the department
to identify a comparable, which is rendering similar services, the question of
considering CUP method would not arise at all. 20.13 The Appellant remitted
service tax under reverse charge mechanism in respect of the said management
fee. Further, the Appellant has obtained a certificate under section 197 of
the Act from the Deputy Director of Income Tax, International Taxation,
Chennai in relation to the management fee. Recently, in the case of Aban
Offshore Ltd. vs DClT in ITA No. 585 of 2015 dated 14th September, 2016, the
Co-ordinate bench has held that any payment which is systematically subject to
deduction of tax at source cannot be said to be non-genuine and further held
that:-
> "6. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record.
> Admittedly, this expenditure was incurred in terms of agreement entered into
> by the assessee and India Offshore Inc. vide agreement dated 15.12.1986,
> which was extended upto 15.12.2014. This agreement was subject to  114
> scrutiny before the authorities and the Tribunal in earlier years and there
> was no addition on this count. The payment has been made originally, vide
> agreement dated 15.12.1986 and it was further extended upto 15.12.2014.
> Therefore, there is no question of raising invoices for each assessment year
> and the payment is made in terms of approved agreement. Further, in our
> opinion, the genuineness agreement cannot be questioned by the assessing
> authorities when it is duly approved by the Central Govt., Ministry of
> Commerce & Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion and by
> the Reserve Bank of India as well. It is brought on record that Ministry of
> Commerce & Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion approved
> this payment vide their letter dated 25.4.2005. It is also brought on record
> that the payment made to Indian Offshore Inc was subjected to withholding
> taxes u/s.195 of the Act and TDS was duly deducted and deposited in the
> Govt. Bank as seen from Form 16A placed on paper book at page 204. When the
> Department has given "No Objection Certificate" for remittance made to
> Indian Offshore Inc for earlier years which is placed on record at page
> Nos.211-212 of the paper book. Further, it is brought on record that there
> was no addition in earlier assessment years as evident from the copies filed
> before us for the assessment years 2005-06 to 2008-09 which is kept on
> record at pages 1 to 146 of the paper book. Therefore, it is not possible to
> hold that the payment is not genuine.
6.1 Further, the Tribunal in the case of Cadbury India Ltd. V.ADCIT in ITA
No.7408/Mum/2010 dated 13.11.2013 held in paragraph 39 that if the assessee
has paid the payments in relation to royalty to its parent AE for use of
technical know-how and trademark after getting due approval from RBI and SIA,
the disallowance cannot be made. Further, if the amount paid by assessee was
lesser  115 than similar payments made by other group entities to parent AE,
then, TPO should not make the TP adjustment in respect of the royalty payment
to its parent AE. 6.2 It is pertinent to note that the Tribunal, Hyderabad
Bench in the case of Air Liquid Engineering India P. Ltd. In ITA Nos.1040 &
1159/Hyd/2011 and 1408/Hyd/2010, vide order dated 13.2.2014 held that in
transfer pricing proceedings TPO could not sit in judgment on business and
commercial expediency of assessee company so as to conclude that payment of
royalty made by assessee to its AE was unreasonable and thus ALP of said
payment was to be taken as nil.
6.3 It is to be noted that in the case of DCIT v. Sona Okegawa Precision
Forgings Ltd. in ITA No. 5386/Del/2010 dated 16.12.2011, the Tribunal held
that the assessee entered into an international transaction with its overseas
associates and paid royalty @ 3% which was considered as excessive by TPO did
not bring any material on record which could suggest that payment of royalty
as excessive order of TPO was to be dismissed and a collaboration agreement
had been approved by the Ministry of Industries, Department of Industrial
Policy and Promotion. 6.4 The Tribunal also held in the case of Abhishek Auto
Industries Ltd. in ITA No.1433/Del/2009 dated 12.11.2010, that it is a settled
proposition of the law that legally binding agreements between unrelated
parties cannot be disregarded without assigning any cogent reasons thereto. In
this case, it has agreements that are duly approved by RBI and other
regulatory agencies. It is also a settled proposition that commercial
transactions are in the domain of the businessman and Income-tax Department
cannot intervene in realm of intricacies of commercial expediencies involved
in these arrangements.  116 6.5 In view of the above discussion, we are of the
opinion that the payment is made in accordance with agreement entered into by
the parties, which is evident from the record and it was subjected to TDS,
disallowance is not justified. Accordingly, we allow the ground raised by the
assessee."
21\. However, for the A.Y 2012-13, though the assessee was asked to explain as
to how the cost of allocation for the management fee was done. The assessee
had submitted vide letter dated 20.03.2017 a copy of application filed with
Centre for Wind Energy Technology which was rejected by the DRP stating that
no cognizance is required to be taken of these documents submitted after the
hearing were completed. Regarding copy of correspondence with the AE for
allocation of cost, it was observed by the DRP that no such document was
furnished by the assessee. However, before us the assessee filed additional
evidences for the A.Y 2012-13 as discussed in earlier para elsewhere in the
order and we are in principle agree with the contention of the assessee
regarding the allowability of management fees and there is no requirement of
transfer pricing adjustment on this issue, subject to verification of availing
of actual services and allocation of its cost to the assessee. For the A.Y
2011-12, it was stated that all the  117 relevant evidences were already
available with the Assessing Officer/TPO and on that basis; it is required to
be verified with regard to availing actual services and its allocation of cost
to the assessee. Accordingly, this ground relating to Management fees is
remitted to the file of ld. Assessing Officer for fresh consideration for both
the assessment years and the Assessing Officer after going through the
evidences filed by the assessee decide the issue fresh as indicated above.
This ground is partly allowed for statistical purposes for both the assessment
years.
22\. Next ground for the asst. year 2012-13 is with regard to disallowance
u/s.14A read with Rule 8D of the Income-tax Rules,1962 for the purpose of
computing total income.
23\. The facts of the issue are that for the subject asst. year, the company
had investments in its wholly owned subsidiaries i.e. GM Navarra Wind Energy
Pvt. Ltd. RSR Power Pvt. Limited and Kintech Santalpur Pvt. Ltd. amounting to
₹12,25,00,000/-. The assessee had also submitted the Tax Audit Report in Form
3CA and 3CD, which clearly indicates that the Company had not incurred any
expenditure towards maintenance of the aforesaid investments or for earning
any exempt income from the said  118 investment. The assessee claimed that no
expenditure is required to be disallowed u/s.14A of the Act. However, the AO
modified the facts that there is a direct nexus between increase in
investments and borrowed capital and as per the given portfolio of investment;
the assessee should have incurred minor expenditure embedded in the indirect
expenditure of the assessee towards maintaining these investments.
24\. The ld. AR submitted that sec.14A of the Act cannot be applied if there
is no exempt income earned during the year. The ld. AR, further submitted that
the AO erred in not considering the fact that no exempt income had been earned
during the said financial year and no expenditure has also been incurred
towards earning exempt income. Therefore, disallowance u/s.14A of the Act is
not applicable to the assessee's case. Sec.14A of the Act emphasizes on
disallowance of expenditure incurred in relation to exempt income. The
question of disallowance of expenditure would arise only in a scenario where
the assessee has earned exempt income during the year. To support his view, he
relied on the following judicial precedents:
119
a. CIT vs. Chettinad Logistics (P) Ltd. [248 Taxman 55](Madras) wherein held
that:-
b. Redington India Ltd. vs. Addl. CIT [TCA 520 of 2016](Madras) wherein held
that:-
Similar view was fortified by the following case laws:-
i) Cheminvest Ltd. v. ACIT [378 ITR 33](Delhi)
ii) M. Baskaran v. ACIT [152 ITR 844](Chennai, ITAT) According to the ld. AR,
the AO relied on Circular 5 of 2014, which has been annulled by the
Jurisdictional High Court and the Tribunal in the above decisions.
24.1 The ld. AR argued that there is no disallowance u/s.14A of the Act, if
the investment is on account commercial expediency or facilitates the business
of the assessee. The ld. AR, submitted that the business carried on by the
subsidiaries is integrated to the business of the assessee and therefore the
investments have been made on account of commercial expediency and it
indirectly facilitates the business of the assessee. In other words, the
investments have not been made with an intention to earn dividend income but
for furtherance of their existing business. Therefore, the question of
applying the  120 provisions of sec.14A of the Act, would not arise. The ld.
AR relied on the following decisions, wherein the said principle has been
upheld:
a. CIT vs. Oriental Structural Engineers (P) Ltd. [ITA No. 605/2012
dt.15.01.2013.] (Delhi) b. DCIT v. Regen Powertech Pvt. Ltd. (ITA 766 of 2016
dated 17.08.2016)[Chennai].
24.2 The ld. AR, further submitted that there is no proportionate disallowance
of interest cost, since the assessee had sufficient interest free funds to
make investments. The ld. AR submitted that loan funds have not been utilized
for making investments and therefore no disallowance can be made by applying
the second limb of Rule 8D i.e. no requirement to disallow proportionate
interest cost. The ld. AR also submitted the extracts of bank statement
substantiating that only interest free funds in the form of share capital has
been invested in subsidiaries. Therefore, the AO has factually erred in not
appreciating the same. The ld. AR relied on the decision in the case of Beach
Minerals Co. (P) Ltd. v. ACIT, wherein the Tribunal, Chennai Bench upheld the
above principle.  121 24.3. On the other hand, the ld. DR relied on the orders
of the DRP.
25\. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record. It was
submitted before us that there was no exempted income; hence, Sec.14A read
with Rule 8D cannot be applied. In our considered opinion, this issue came for
consideration before the jurisdictional High Court in the following cases and
held as follows:-
i) CIT Vs. Chettinad Logistics (P) Ltd.(supra) where in held that:-
> In our opinion Section 14A, can only be triggered, if, the Assessee seeks to
> square off expenditure against income which does not form part of the total
> income under the Act. The legislature, in order to do away with the
> pernicious practice adopted by the Assessees', to claim expenditure, against
> income exempt from tax, introduced the said provision. In the instant case,
> there is no dispute that no income i.e., dividend, which did not form part
> of total income of the Assessee was earned in the relevant assessment year.
> Therefore, to our minds, the addition made by the AO by relying upon Section
> 14 A of the Act, was completely contrary to the provisions of the said
> Section. It was submitted that the Revenue could disallow the expenditure
> even in such a circumstance by taking recourse to Rule 8D. According to us,
> Rule 8D, only provides for a method to determine the amount of expenditure
> incurred in relation to income, which does not form part of the total income
> of the Assessee. Rule 8 D, in our view, cannot go beyond what is provided in
> Section 14A of the Act."
ii) Redington India Ltd. Vs. ACIT (supra) wherein held that:-  122 "13.
Reliance is also placed on a decision of the jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Beach Minerals Company Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income
Tax in TCA No.681 of 2013, dated 2.12.2013. In that case, payments of interest
by the assessee were sought to be disallowed invoking the provisions of s.14A
on the premise that the same related to borrowings that had been invested and
would yield exempt returns. The assessee contested the disallowance u/s 14A on
multiple grounds. It was contended that there were sufficient reserves and
surpluses available for the purpose of investments, and borrowed funds, for
which the payment of interest had been incurred, had not been invested. The
assessee sought to draw a nexus between the borrowed funds and the interest
payments, highlighting the position that the quantum of available free funds
was far in excess of the investments made. The Bench, in the light of the
above submissions, remanded the issue to the file of the assessing officer to
be considered de novo and after conducting a proper enquiry. Inter alia a
direction was issued to the assessee to tender a proper explanation for the
interest payments. The open remand was made in the facts and circumstances of
that case and no conclusion was drawn by the Bench on the position of law
involved. In fact, the substantial question of law raised in that case for the
consideration of the Court was couched in general terms as follows:
"Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case. the Income Tar
Appellate Tribunal is right in law in confirming the disallowance under
Section 11.1 of the income Tax Act, of an amount of Rs.55,00.000/- in relation
to assessment year 2007- 2008?"
14\. Nothing much turns on the use of the word 'includable' and the phrase
'under the act' in s. 14A and we are not persuaded to accept the emphasis laid
or the interpretation of the same by the Revenue. An assessment in terms of
the Income tax Act is specific to an  123 assessment year and the related
previous year. S.4 of the Act, which imposes the charge to tax reads thus:
Charge of income-tax
4\. (1) Where any Central Act enacts that income --tax shall be charged for
any assessment year at any rate or rates, income-tax at that rate or those
rates shall be charged for that year in accordance with and subject to the
provisions (including provisions for the levy of additional income-tax) of,
this Act in respect of the total income of the previous year of every person:
Provided that where by virtue of any provision of this Act income- tax is to
be charged in respect of the income of a period other than the previous year,
income tax shall be charged accordingly. Thus, where the statute indented that
income shall be recognized for taxation in respect of any previous other than
that immediately preceding the relevant assessment year, the provision shall
expressly state so. The provisions of s.10 in Chapter III of the Act dealing
with 'Incomes not included in total income' commences with the phrase 'In
computing the total income of a previous year, any income falling within any
of the following clauses shall not be included.
15\. The exemption extended to dividend income would relate only to the
previous year when the income was earned and none other and consequently the
expenditure incurred in connection therewith should also be dealt with in the
same previous year. Thus, by application of the matching concept, in a year
where there is no exempt income, there cannot be a disallowance of expenditure
in relation to such assumed income. (Madras Industrial Investment Corporation
Ltd. Vs. CIT (225 ITR 802). The language of S.14A(1) should be read in the
context and such that it advances the scheme of the Act rather than distort
it."
25.1 Accordingly the above ground is decided in favour of the assessee and
there cannot be any disallowance u/s.14A when  124 there is no exempted
income. This ground of appeal of the assessee for the A.Y 2012-13 is allowed.
26\. The next ground for the asst. year 2012-13 is with regard to disallowance
u/s.14A with Rule 8D while computing book profits u/s.115JB of the Act.
26.1 The facts of the issue are that the AO while computing book profits
u/.s.115JB, expenditure attributable to earning exempted income added to net
profit by invoking the clause (f) to Explanation 1 to sec.115JB of the Act at
₹ 51,24,351/-.
27\. After hearing both the sides, we are of the opinion that this issue came
for consideration before the Special Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ACIT
Vs. Vireet Investments (P) Ltd., in 165 ITD 27(Delhi) wherein held that
Sec.14A r.w.Rule 8D has no application while computing the book profit
u/s.115JB of the Act. More so, in this case there is no exempted income, this
provision cannot be applied. This ground of the assessee is allowed.
28\. The next ground for the a.y. 2011-12 is with regard to deduction of
interest on service tax and TDS.
125
28.1 The facts of the issue are that the assessee has incurred expenditure in
the nature of interest on delayed payment of service tax (`12,02,485) and TDS
(₹ 3,81,650). The AO disallowed the expenditure citing that under the
provisions of sec.37(1) of the Act, any expenditure for any purpose in the
nature of offence which is prohibited by law shall not be eligible for
deduction.
28.2 The ld. AR submitted that as per the Explanation to sec.37 of the Act,
allowability of any expenditure would depend on whether the expenditure
incurred is penal or compensatory in nature. Where the expenditure incurred is
compensatory in nature, the same should be allowed as deduction. It is
pertinent to note that any interest payment is compensatory in nature and
therefore cannot be said to be a penal expenditure. The ld. AR relied on the
decision of the Tribunal, Delhi Bench in the case of Messee Dusseldorf India
(P) Ltd. vs. CIT [129 TTJ 81] regarding the interest on service tax. He also
relied in respect of interest on TDS, on the decision of the Bombay High Court
in the case of Arthur Anderson & Co. vs. ACIT [190 Taxman 279].
29\. On the other hand, ld.D.R relied on the order of DRP.  126
30\. After hearing both the parties with regard to deduction of interest on
TDS and service tax and TDS, this issue is squarely covered in favoru of
assessee by the decision of Bombay High Court in the case of Arthur Anderson &
Co., vs. ACIT in 190 Taxman 279(Bom) wherein held that:-
"9. Apart from the fact that there has been no failure on the part of the
assessee to make a full and true disclosure of all material facts, it will be
necessary to advert to the decision of the Supreme Court in Harshad Shantilal
Mehta vs. Custodian & Ors. (1998) 231 ITR 871 (SC). The Supreme Court, in the
course of its judgment observed that under the IT Act, 1961 the definition of
tax under s. 2(43) does not include penalty or interest and that the concepts
of tax, penalty and interest are different concepts under the Act. Justice
Sujata Manohar speaking for a Bench of three learned Judges of the Supreme
Court observed thus :
"We are concerned in the present case with penalty and interest under the IT
Act. Tax, penalty and interest are different concepts under the IT Act. The
definition of 'tax' under s. 2(43) does not include penalty or interest.
Similarly, under s. 156, it is provided that when any tax, interest, penalty,
fine or any of other sum is payable  127 in consequence of any order passed
under this Act, the AO shall serve upon the assessee a notice of demand as
prescribed. The provisions for imposition of penalty and interest are distinct
from the provisions for imposition of tax."
10\. The decision of the Supreme Court was delivered in an appeal which arose
out of the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transaction in
Securities) Act, 1992. The interpretation which has been placed on the
provisions of s. 2(43) and the observations of the Supreme Court noted
earlier, however, bind this Court as regards the ground on which the reopening
of the assessment has been sought in this case."
31\. Further, the Co-ordinate Bench of Delhi in the case of Messee Dusseldorf
India (P) Ltd., vs. DCIT in 129 TTJ 81 (Delhi) wherein held that:-
"Interest paid for delayed payment of service-tax is compensatory and has the
same character as service-tax and, therefore, it is allowable as deduction."
31.1 Further, in the case of CIT vs. Udaipur Distillary (160 ITR 444
(Rajasthan) wherein it was held that interest paid for delay in payment of
sales tax is allowable expenditure. Kerala High Court in the case of CIT vs.
TM Chacko And Partners (115 ITR 40) (Kerala) wherein it was held that interest
paid for late payment of Kist is allowable business expenditure. The same view
was taken by the Kerala High Court  128 in the case of CIT vs. Pachi Phillip &
Co., 212 ITR 75 (Kerala). Further, the Tribunal in the case of Remfry & Sagar
Consultants Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (34 CCH 131 (Delhi) wherein it has been held
that interest paid for delayed payment of service-tax is allowable. However,
in respect of payment of interest on delayed TDS payment it cannot be allowed
in view of the judgement of Supreme Court in the case of Bharat Commerce &
Industries Ltd. Vs. CIT (230 ITR 733). Further, the Kolkotta High Court in the
case of East India Pharmaceutical India Ltd. Vs. CIT 114 ITR 423 wherein it
was held that interest paid on money borrowed for the payment of income tax
could not be allowed as a business expenditure.In view of the above
discussion, we are of the opinion that interest on delay in payment of service
tax, which is only compensatory nature paid on account of delay in these
payments and to be allowed as business expenditure. However, interest paid for
delay in payment of TDS cannot be allowed as business expenditure. This ground
raised by assessee in its appeal for the assessment year 2011-12 is partly
allowed.  129
32\. The next ground for the assessment year 2012-13 is with regard to
disallowance of spill over of additional depreciation u/s.32(1)(iia) on plant
and machinery put into use during the preceding year.
33\. The facts of the issue are that the assessee acquired and installed plant
and machinery during the preceding year in respect of which additional
depreciation at the rate of 20% has been claimed. In respect of assets put
into use for a period of less than 180 days during the preceding year,
additional depreciation has been claimed at the rate of 10 per cent.
Therefore, the remaining spill over of 10 percent has been claimed during the
subject AY. The AO held that additional depreciation would be allowable only
in the year in which the asset is put into use and rejected the claim of the
assessee. 33.1 The provisions of the Act are ambiguous and in case asset is
put to use for less than 180 days in an year then additional depreciation
u/s.32(1)(iia) has to be reduced to half the specified rate. Further, there
isn't any provision of carry forward of balance additional depreciation to the
succeeding previous year. So there isn't any flaw in the order of the AO in
130 this regard and the objection of the assessee is not accepted. This is
important to note that realizing this aspect of loss to the assessee of
balance depreciation, an amendment in the Act has already been carried out
which allows this benefit of carry forward to the assessee in immediately
succeeding year, however such benefit is available only w.e.f. 01.04./2016 and
not for the year under consideration. Memorandum to Finance Bill, 2015 while
introducing this amendment reads as follows:
> "Non-availability of full 100% of additional depreciation for acquisition
> and installation new plant and machinery in the second half of the year may
> motivate the assessee to defer such investment to the next year for availing
> full 100% of additional depreciation in the next year. To remove the
> discrimination in the matter of allowing additional depreciation on plant or
> machinery used for less than 180 days and used for 180 days or more"
Thus, the memorandum acknowledges that as of today if the assets are used for
less than 180 days, it is not eligible for full 100% of additional
depreciation. Accordingly, the amendment is more for the future years rather
than an amendment as applicable even to earlier years prior to financial year
2015-16. Thus, it was never the intention of the legislature to allow the  131
claim of balance 50% additional depreciation in the immediately subsequent
year in case of financial years prior to 2015-16. The issue also has been
decided by the Tribunal, Chennai Bench in the case of Brakes India Ltd. vs.
(96 DTR 281), where the Tribunal did not allow the balance additional
depreciation in subsequent financial year.
34\. After hearing both the parties, we find that similar issue was considered
by the Karnataka High Court in the case of ACIT Vs. M/s.Rittal IndiaPvt Ltd.
in vide order dated 24.11.2015 in 2016-TIOL-07-HC-KAR-IT wherein held that:-
"It has been consistently held by this Court, as well as the Apex Court, that
beneficial legislation, as in the present case, should be given liberal
interpretation so as to benefit the assessee. In this case, the intention of
the legislation is absolutely clear, that the assessee shall be allowed
certain additional benefit, which was restricted by the proviso to only half
of the same being granted in one assessment year, if certain condition was not
fulfilled. But, that, in our considered view, would not restrain the assessee
from claiming the balance of the benefit in the subsequent assessment year.
The Tribunal, in our view, has rightly held that additional depreciation
allowed under Section 32(i) (iia) of the Act is a onetime benefit to encourage
industrialization, and the provisions related to it have to be construed
reasonably, liberally and purposively, to make the provision meaningful while
granting additional allowance. We are in full agreement with such observations
made by the Tribunal. In view of the aforesaid, we do not find that any
interference is called  132 for with the order of the Tribunal, or that any
question of law arises in this appeal for determination by this Court."
35\. Similar view was taken by the jurisdictional High Court in the case of
CIT Vs. T.P. Textiles Pvt Ltd., (TCA No.157 of 2017, dt.06.03.2017) and the
Tribunal in the case of R.R Donnelley Publishing India (P) Ltd., Vs. ACIT (ITA
No.909/Mds./2016 dt.24.08.2016). Respectfully following the above precedents,
we are inclined to decide the issue in favour of the assessee. Accordingly,
this ground of appeal of the assessee is allowed.
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
                            3. आयकर आयुHत (अपील)/CIT(A)
                            4. आयकर आयुHत/CIT
                            5. Fवभागीय   त नKध/DR
                            6. गाड  फाईल/GF.
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
    Chennai - 600 119.
    PAN AACCG6027C
    (अपीलाथ /Appellant)                      (  यथ /Respondent)
अपीलाथ क ओर /Appellant by : Shri B.Ramakrishnan, FCA & Shri S. Dwarakesh, ACS
यथ क ओर से/Respondent by : Smt. Vijayalakshmi, CIT,D.R सन ु वाई क तार ख/Date
of Hearing : 16.08.2017 घोषणा क तार ख/Date of Pronouncement: 13.11.2017 आदे श
/O R D E R PER CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER These two appeal are filed
by the assessee, aggrieved by the order of the ld. Assessing Officer, Chennai,
passed u/s.143(3) read with sec.144C(1) of the Act pursuant to the order  2 of
the T.P.O, Chennai and the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution
Panel-2, (D.R.P-2), Bangalore, (DRP) under sec.144C(5) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, for the assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13
2\. The first common issue in these two appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of payment of royalty to Associated Enterprises (AEs) on
the reason that the royalty payment is in excess of limits prescribed under
the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
3\. The brief facts of the case are that Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt.
Ltd.,(formerly known as 'Gamesa Renewable Private Limited') ('Gamesa India' or
'the assessee') is an Indian company engaged in the business of manufacture of
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
    Chennai - 600 119.
    PAN AACCG6027C
    (अपीलाथ /Appellant)                      (  यथ /Respondent)
अपीलाथ क ओर /Appellant by : Shri B.Ramakrishnan, FCA & Shri S. Dwarakesh, ACS
यथ क ओर से/Respondent by : Smt. Vijayalakshmi, CIT,D.R सन ु वाई क तार ख/Date
of Hearing : 16.08.2017 घोषणा क तार ख/Date of Pronouncement: 13.11.2017 आदे श
/O R D E R PER CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER These two appeal are filed
by the assessee, aggrieved by the order of the ld. Assessing Officer, Chennai,
passed u/s.143(3) read with sec.144C(1) of the Act pursuant to the order  2 of
the T.P.O, Chennai and the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution
Panel-2, (D.R.P-2), Bangalore, (DRP) under sec.144C(5) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, for the assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13
2\. The first common issue in these two appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of payment of royalty to Associated Enterprises (AEs) on
the reason that the royalty payment is in excess of limits prescribed under
the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
3\. The brief facts of the case are that Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt.
Ltd.,(formerly known as 'Gamesa Renewable Private Limited') ('Gamesa India' or
'the assessee') is an Indian company engaged in the business of manufacture of
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
    Chennai - 600 119.
    PAN AACCG6027C
    (अपीलाथ /Appellant)                      (  यथ /Respondent)
अपीलाथ क ओर /Appellant by : Shri B.Ramakrishnan, FCA & Shri S. Dwarakesh, ACS
यथ क ओर से/Respondent by : Smt. Vijayalakshmi, CIT,D.R सन ु वाई क तार ख/Date
of Hearing : 16.08.2017 घोषणा क तार ख/Date of Pronouncement: 13.11.2017 आदे श
/O R D E R PER CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER These two appeal are filed
by the assessee, aggrieved by the order of the ld. Assessing Officer, Chennai,
passed u/s.143(3) read with sec.144C(1) of the Act pursuant to the order  2 of
the T.P.O, Chennai and the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution
Panel-2, (D.R.P-2), Bangalore, (DRP) under sec.144C(5) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, for the assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13
2\. The first common issue in these two appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of payment of royalty to Associated Enterprises (AEs) on
the reason that the royalty payment is in excess of limits prescribed under
the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
3\. The brief facts of the case are that Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt.
Ltd.,(formerly known as 'Gamesa Renewable Private Limited') ('Gamesa India' or
'the assessee') is an Indian company engaged in the business of manufacture of
renewable energy equipments like Wind Energy Generation ('WEG', commonly known
as 'windmills') and Solar Power Generators. The assessee provides turnkey
solutions to its customers which includes the following activities:
> a) Undertaking preliminary activities such as identifying land, obtaining
> approvals for developing wind farms
> b) Manufacture and sale of WEGs  3
> c) Erection and commissioning of WEGs
> d) Operation & Maintenance of wind turbine generators 3.1 The facts of the
> issue as narrated in the assessment year 2012-13 are that the assessee
> maintained the documentation as required under the Rule 10D of the I.T
> Rules, 1962 with respect to international transaction for the financial year
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
    Salai, Sholinganallur,
    Chennai - 600 119.
    PAN AACCG6027C
    (अपीलाथ /Appellant)                      (  यथ /Respondent)
अपीलाथ क ओर /Appellant by : Shri B.Ramakrishnan, FCA & Shri S. Dwarakesh, ACS
यथ क ओर से/Respondent by : Smt. Vijayalakshmi, CIT,D.R सन ु वाई क तार ख/Date
of Hearing : 16.08.2017 घोषणा क तार ख/Date of Pronouncement: 13.11.2017 आदे श
/O R D E R PER CHANDRA POOJARI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER These two appeal are filed
by the assessee, aggrieved by the order of the ld. Assessing Officer, Chennai,
passed u/s.143(3) read with sec.144C(1) of the Act pursuant to the order  2 of
the T.P.O, Chennai and the directions issued by the Dispute Resolution
Panel-2, (D.R.P-2), Bangalore, (DRP) under sec.144C(5) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, for the assessment years 2011-12 and 2012-13
2\. The first common issue in these two appeals is with regard to downward
adjustment in respect of payment of royalty to Associated Enterprises (AEs) on
the reason that the royalty payment is in excess of limits prescribed under
the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
3\. The brief facts of the case are that Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt.
Ltd.,(formerly known as 'Gamesa Renewable Private Limited') ('Gamesa India' or
'the assessee') is an Indian company engaged in the business of manufacture of
renewable energy equipments like Wind Energy Generation ('WEG', commonly known
as 'windmills') and Solar Power Generators. The assessee provides turnkey
solutions to its customers which includes the following activities:
> a) Undertaking preliminary activities such as identifying land, obtaining
> approvals for developing wind farms
> b) Manufacture and sale of WEGs  3
> c) Erection and commissioning of WEGs
> d) Operation & Maintenance of wind turbine generators 3.1 The facts of the
> issue as narrated in the assessment year 2012-13 are that the assessee
> maintained the documentation as required under the Rule 10D of the I.T
> Rules, 1962 with respect to international transaction for the financial year
36\. In the result, both the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced on 13th November, 2017 at Chennai.
                Sd/-                                        Sd/-
          (धु$वु% आर.एल रे 'डी)                           (चं* पज
                                                                ू ार )
       (Duvvuru RL Reddy)                              (Chandra Poojari)
    8या यक सद:य/Judicial Member               लेखा सद:य/Accountant Member
      चे8नई/Chennai,
                              th
      Cदनांक/Dated, the 13 November, 2017.
      K S Sundaram
                                 133
    आदे श क    तEलFप अGेFषत/Copy to:
                            1. अपीलाथ /Appellant
                            2.   यथ /Respondent
