Madras High Court
M/S. Vendhar Movies vs The Joint Director on 17 September, 2018
                                                             1
                                        IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
                              Orders Reserved on : 01.04.2019       Orders Pronounced on : 16.04.2019
                                                            CORAM:
                                       THE HONOURABLE Dr. JUSTICE ANITA SUMANTH
                                         Writ Petition Nos.30085, 14425 & 29206 of 2018
                                                      5131 & 1199 of 2019 &
                                            WMP Nos. 35098, 17040 & 34134 of 2018
                                                       & 5849 & 1351 of 2019
                          M/s. Vendhar Movies,
                          Represented by its Proprietor S.Madhan,
                          No.EA, Basement, Doshi Garden,
                          Vadapalani, Chennai – 600 026                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.30085/2018
                          Super Good Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Managing Director
                          Mr. R.B.Choudary,
                          No.32 North Boag Road, T.Nagar,
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
                          Wunderbar Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by Mr.S.Vinod Kumar, Director,
                          No.13/6, 4th Floor, Jaganathan Road,
                          Chennai 600 034                          ... Petitioner in W.P.No.29206/2018
                                                                      & Petitioner in W.P.No.5131/2019
                          M/s. AGS Entertainment Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Director (M/55),
                          Flat No.B-2 First Floor,
                          Shoba Flats, No.12, 10th Avenue,
                          Ashok Nagar, Chennai – 600 083                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.1199/2019
                                                                 vs.
                          1. The Joint Director,
                             O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar, Chennai – 600 0902.
                          2. Additional Commissioner,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   2
                             O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai South Commissionerate,
                             No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam,
                             Chennai 600 035                         ... Respondents in WP No.30085/2018
                          3. Principal Additional Director General,
                             Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
                             Chennai 600 090                              ... R-1 in WP No.14425/2018
                          4. The Principal Commissioner,
                             Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai North Commissionerate,
                             No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
                             Nungambakkam,
                             Chennai - 600 034                             ... R-2 in WP No.14425/2018
                                                                                     & sole respondent in
                                                                                        WP Nos.29206/2018
                                                                                        & 5131/2019
                          5. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai South,
                             M.H.U. Complex No.692, 5th Floor,
                             Anna Salai, Nandanam,
                             Chennai 600 035                        ... Respondent in WP No.1199/2019
                          Prayer in W.P.No.30085/2018:- Petition filed under Article 226 of the
                          Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari to call for
                          the   records   in   the   proceedings   in    the    impugned   Show     Cause   Notice
                          No.100/2018,     dated     17.09.2018,       issued   by   the   first   respondent,   in
                          F.No.INV/DGCEI/CHZU/ST/15/2016 and to quash the same as arbitrary and
                          illegal.
                          Prayer in W.P.No.30085/2018:- Petition filed under Article 226 of the
                          Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari to call for
                          the records in the proceedings in Order in Original No.27/2018 CH.N.GST dated
                          05.03.2018 passed by the second respondent and to quash the same as
                          arbitrary and illegal.
                          Prayer in W.P.No.29206/2018:- Petition filed under Article 226 of the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               3
                          Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari to call for
                          the records in the proceedings in C.No.V/15/67/2017-Ch.Nadj in Order in
                          Original No.84/2018 CH N GST (Commr.) dated 09.07.2018 passed by the
                          respondent and to quash the same as arbitrary and illegal.
                          Prayer    in   W.P.No.5131/2019:-   Petition   filed   under    Article   226   of   the
                          Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari to call for
                          the records in the proceedings in C.No.V/15/50/2018-Ch.Nadj in Order in
                          Original No.121/2018 CH N GST (Commr.) dated 17.12.2018 passed by the
                          respondent and to quash the same as arbitrary and illegal.
                          Prayer    in   W.P.No.1199/2019:-   Petition   filed   under    Article   226   of   the
                          Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari to call for
                          the records of the respondent in the impugned Order-In-Original Nos.29 &
                          30/2018, dated 20.08.2018, quash the same as the same seeks to levy service
                          tax on permanent transfer of copyright and is against the decision of this Court
                          in petitioner’s own case AGS Entertainment Ltd. V. Union of India in
                          W.P.No.29398/2010,      dated   26.06.2013     wherein   it    has   been   held     that
                          permanent transfer of copyright is not taxable.
                                   For Petitioner in WP Nos. 30085,
                                   14425 & 29206 of 2018 & 5131 of 2019 :        Mr. Joseph Prabhakar
                                   For Petitioner in WP No.1199/2019    :        Mr. AR.L.Sundaresan,
                                                                                 Sr. Counsel, for,
                                                                                 Ms. Radhika Chandrasekhar.
                                   For R-1 in W.P.No.30085/2018 &
                                   For Respondents in WP No.14425/2018
                                   & For Respondent in WP No.29206/2018:         Mr. V.Sundareswaran,
                                                                                 Senior Panel Counsel.
                                   For R-2 in W.P.No.30085/2018             :    Mr. G.Syed Noorullah,
                                                                                 Standing Counsel
                                   For Respondent in WP No.5131/2019        :    Ms.Seetha Lakshmi,
                                                                                 Standing Counsel.
                                                     COMMON ORDER
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 4
                                   These five writ petitions challenge a show cause notice/orders-in-original
                          issued     by   the   Service   Tax   Department    to   producers/purchasers    of
                          cinematograph films who have assigned some part of their copyright in the
                          cinematograph films to television channels, invoking the provisions of the
                          Finance Act, 1994 (in short ‘Act’), relating to ‘Intellectual Property Right’
                          service.
                                     2. Heard the detailed submissions of Mr.Joseph Prabakar, for Vendhar
                          Movies, (WP Nos. 30085 of 2018), Super Good Films Private Limited
                          (W.P.No.14425 of 2018) and Wunderbar Films Private Limited (W.P.No.29206 of
                          2018 & W.P.No.5131 of 2019), Mr.AR.L.Sundaresan, learned Senior Counsel,
                          for Ms.Radhika Chandrasekhar, learned counsel for AGS Entertainment Private
                          Limited (W.P.No.1199 of 2019), Mr.V.Sundareswaran, learned Senior Panel
                          Counsel, Mr.Noorullah learned Standing         Counsel and Ms.Seetha Lakshmi,
                          learned Standing Counsel, for the respondents. The writ petitions, annexures
                          and the case laws cited at the Bar have been studied and considered in detail.
                                   3. I must, at the outset, make it clear that the veracity or otherwise of
                          the impugned show cause notice and orders-in-original are taken up for
                          examination, solely since they appear to adopt a stand not in consonance with
                          the relevant provisions of law, both those in the Act as well as in the Copyright
                          Act, 1957 (in short ‘CR Act’). This Court has not concerned itself with any
                          factual particulars, except for the limited purpose of appreciating and
                          adjudicating upon the legality of the impugned notice and orders. It is solely on
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               5
                          the aforesaid basis that I proceed to advert to the rival contentions advanced
                          by both parties.
                                4. ‘Taxable Services’ under service tax law include services provided to
                          any person by a holder of ‘intellectual property rights’ (in short ‘IPR’). The
                          journey of taxation of IPR services commenced on 10.09.2004 with the
                          introduction of Section 65(55b) when the transfer of an IPR, either permanent
                          or otherwise, or the permitting of the use or enjoyment of an IRP was brought
                          under the ambit of levy of service tax for the period till 15.05.2005. Thereafter,
                          for the period 16.05.2005 to 30.06.2012, Section 65(55b) brought to tax
                          income from the service of temporary transfer or permitting the use or
                          enjoyment of IPR.
                                5. After the introduction of the negative list with effect from 01.07.2012,
                          IPR service was a declared service in terms of Section 66E(c). Taxable services
                          were defined in terms of section 65(105) and clause (zzzzt) thereof reading as
                          follows:
                                        ‘65(105)(zzzzt): “Taxable service’ means any service
                                 provided or to be provided to any person, by any other person,
                                 for-
                                        (a) transferring temporarily; or
                                        (b) permitting the use of enjoyment of,
                                 any copyright defined in the Copyright Act, 1957, except the
                                 rights covered under sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of section 13
                                 of the said Act.’
                                6. Section 13 of the CR Act enumerates the following classes of work as
                          those in which copyrights subsist: (a) Original literary, dramatic, musical and
                          artistic work; (b) Recording of cinematograph films; (c) Sound recordings. The
                          works referred to in (a) have been kept outside of the tax net and only those
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 6
                          works referred to in (b) and (c) have been made taxable under service tax law.
                                7. The petitioners are engaged in the production of cinematograph films.
                          In the regular course of business, the petitioners enter into various agreements
                          with distributors, exhibitors and television channels assigning to them exclusive
                          rights for broadcast and exhibition of various cinematograph films, both
                          produced as well as purchased by them. The rights include satellite television
                          broadcast, direct to home broadcast, direct satellite service, terrestrial
                          television broadcast and all other rights connected therewith including exhibition
                          of the film by means of wireless diffusion and by wire for communication to the
                          public through television broadcast.
                                8. The salient features of the arrangements entered into by the
                          petitioners with distributors/exhibitors are common across the writ petitions and
                          broadly set out below. The narration to follow also takes into account the
                          admitted facts, the relevant features of the assignment agreements and the
                          submissions on merits advanced by both parties:
                                •   All petitioners   are   companies   engaged    in   the   production   and
                                    distribution of cinematographic films/feature films/movies.
                                •   Agreements were entered into for distribution of cinematograph films
                                    produced by the petitioners, visual recording of cinematograph film,
                                    accompanying sound track and all other features of the film which
                                    constitute an asset/assets in which copyright subsists.
                                •   Assignment agreements are also entered into in respect of films
                                    purchased by the petitioners for theatrical distribution.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                  7
                              •   As   film   producers,    the       entire   copyright(s)    comprised     in   the
                                  cinematograph film belongs to them and they are entitled to transfer
                                  such copyright to distributors for theatrical exploitation in respect of a
                                  demarcated area.
                              •   The Cinematograph film is also capable of being exploited in respect
                                  of   terrestrial   television   broadcast      right   and   satellite   television
                                  broadcast right, exhibition by wireless distribution and by wire,
                                  satellite channels for broadcast, DVD rights, remake rights, Dubbing
                                  rights, Oversees rights and Audio rights.
                              •   Thus, the petitioners are the owners of a bundle of rights that flow
                                  from the ownership of the cinematograph film as a conglomerate
                                  asset. This conglomerate asset has a copyright by itself and as a
                                  whole, and also contains within itself several assets with concurrently
                                  existing copyrights.
                              •   No sales tax, either State or Central, has been paid on the
                                  assignment/transfer of the copy rights.
                              •   The assignment of the rights are perpetual in nature, conferred
                                  permanently and absolutely and without any restriction or limitation
                                  whatsoever, upon the assignee.
                              •   The petitioners have also assigned copyrights that are temporary in
                                  nature and in respect of which service tax liability has been borne.
                              •   Thus, the petitioners recognize a clear difference and demarcation
                                  between those agreements for temporary transfer of copyright and
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 8
                                  those where the transfer is perpetual and permanent and it is only the
                                  latter in respect of which the petitioner claims exclusion from the levy
                                  of service tax. The burden of tax on the former category has been
                                  discharged in full.
                              •   Some of the assignment agreements state that the same are
                                  ‘revocable’. This, by itself, does not militate against the assignments
                                  being permanent, since the revocability of the agreement is only in
                                  cases where the consideration for the assignment was to be paid in
                                  instalments and conditional upon there being a default committed by
                                  the assignee in effecting such payment. Subject to the satisfaction of
                                  the aforesaid condition, the transfer/assignment of the copyright is
                                  irrevocable.
                              •   Thus it is only to protect against a default in payment by the assignee
                                  that the petitioners had provided for revocability of the agreement,
                                  as, in the alternative, the transfer of copy right would have been
                                  completed      without   the       petitioners   having   received   the   full
                                  consideration in respect thereof.
                              •   Several provisions of the CR Act are referred to in extenso by learned
                                  counsels for the petitioners in support of their submissions as above
                                  and I will detail them in the paragraphs to follow.
                              •   In some cases the petitioners have raised the plea of limitation.
                                  According to them, the issue in question was well within the
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                              9
                                  knowledge of the service tax department from as early as in 2010
                                  when one of the petitioners in this batch, AGS Entertainment Private
                                  Limited, along with several other similarly placed assesses, had
                                  approached this Court challenging the vires of the provisions of
                                  Section 65(105)(zzzzt). After completion of pleadings, a Division
                                  Bench of this Court had upheld the validity of the provision vide order
                                  dated 26.06.2013. Thus the department was well aware of the
                                  business activities of the petitioners’, specifically the issue concerning
                                  transfer of copyrights, both temporary as well as permanent, that
                                  arise in these cases. However, show cause notices (‘SCN’) were
                                  issued belatedly for periods prior to five (5) from date of issuance of
                                  the notice, invoking the period of extended limitation.
                              •   In the case of AGS Entertainment, the SCN was issued on 17.01.2017
                                  for   the   period   01.07.2010   to   30.06.2012   under   the   category
                                  ‘copyright services’ in terms of Sections 65(105)(zzzzt) and 66E(c) for
                                  the period 01.04.2013 to 31.03.2015 invoking the extended period of
                                  limitation permitted under the proviso to Section 73(i) of Finance Act
                                  1994. Thereafter, a statement of demand was issued for the
                                  subsequent period, April 2015 to June 2017 along similar lines as the
                                  previous notices.
                              •   Extended period of limitation is liable to be invoked only in cases
                                  where the Department is able to establish the existence of fraud,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                              10
                                  collusion or suppression on the part of the petitioner/assessee in
                                  disclosing taxable income. This however, cannot be so, in a case were
                                  the activities of the petitioner were more than transparent and were in
                                  fact the subject of writ petitions that were pending since 2010 and
                                  that the Department was actively contesting from the word ‘go’. Thus
                                  the impugned orders are also barred by limitation. Reliance is placed
                                  upon the following decisions:
                                     (i) Collector of Central Excise vs. Chemphar Drugs & Liniments Ltd
                                     (2002) TIOL 266
                                     (ii) Continental Foundation Joint Venture Vs. CCE (2007) 216 ELT
                                     177
                              •   The decision of the Division Bench upholding the constitutionality of
                                  the provision is under challenge before the Supreme Court.
                              •   On merits, the impugned orders proceed on the basis that the
                                  petitioners assign only specific copyrights while retaining other
                                  copyrights   in   the    same    cinematograph   film   with   themselves.
                                  According    to   Mr.Sundareswaran,      this    renders   the   transfers
                                  ‘temporary’ in nature.
                              •   Moreover the assignment, in all cases, is perpetual and in many
                                  cases, is for 99 years. Since the provisions of the Act provides for a
                                  period of 60 years as being the life of a copyright, the transactions in
                                  question do not constitute permanent transfers.
                              •   The respondent also states that the transactions are not in tandem
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             11
                                  with the provisions of Section 21 of the Act.
                              •   According to the respondent, the use of the word ‘perpetual’ in the
                                  agreement is only a sham, designed to camouflage the true intent of
                                  the petitioner which is to enter into a temporary transaction. Thus,
                                  the transactions are vitiated as being colourable.
                              •   The Assessing Authority relies substantially upon the decision of the
                                  Division Bench in the case of AGS Entertainment Private Limited v.
                                  Union of India (2013) (32) STR 129 (Mad.).
                              •   According to him, the perpetual transfer as per agreement is not an
                                  ‘absolute transfer for the reason that the transfer of legal right to
                                  copyright has to be to the exclusion of all person including the
                                  transferor and during the period of such transfer, the transferor
                                  cannot again transfer the same rights to others. AGS make
                                  commercial exploitation of copyright in many ways including theatre
                                  rights, satellite and television rights, DVD rights dubbing and remake
                                  rights, etc. Further, these rights are granted to various people
                                  simultaneously for exploitation in different regions. Entire copyright
                                  should be transferred to the other person to constitute permanent
                                  transfer or perpetual transfer which is not so in the case of AGS’.
                                  Therefore, in order to constitute a perpetual transfer, the entire rights
                                  in relation to the film would have to be transferred by the producer.
                                  According to the respondents, the issue has been dealt with by the
                                  Division Bench in detail, in the case of AGS Entertainment (supra),
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                     12
                                        which settles the matter and thus, the contentions of the petitioners
                                        would have to be rejected.
                                    •    For the aforesaid reasons, on merits, the transactions should,
                                         according to the Department, be held to be liable to tax.
                                    •    Mr.V.Sundareswarn,      learned   Senior   Panel     Counsel,    for   the
                                         Department, in all fairness, does not dispute the position that all
                                         agreements    for   transfer/assignments   are     ‘in   perpetuity’   and
                                         specifically states so, which I record.
                                9. It is on the basis of the above admitted factual matrix that I proceed
                          to dispose the writ petitions. I make it clear that this decision would not be
                          applicable should there be any differences on facts in other similar matters.
                                10. Before adverting to the merits, I must deal with the issue of
                          maintainability of the present writ petitions raised by Mr.Sundareshwaran. His
                          argument is two pronged: (i) that the issue at hand has been heard and
                          decided against the assessee by a Division Bench of this Court in the case of
                          AGS Entertainment Ltd. V. Union of India in W.P.No.29398/2010, dated
                          26.06.2013; (ii) that the stage at which the petitioners have approached this
                          Court is very premature in so far as only a show cause notice and orders of
                          assessment have been issued/passed and that the petitioners may be directed
                          to file a reply or pursue the matter through statutory hierarchy by way of
                          appeal.
                                11. Reliance in this regard is placed on the following decisions:-
                                (i) 2011 (269) ELT 9 (Mad.) (United Bleachers Ltd. V. CEGAT, Chennai)
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                 13
                                   (ii) 2015 (37) STR 679 (Mad.) (T.T.Krishnamachari & Co. v. Union of
                          India)
                                   (iii) Commissioner of Customs v. M/s.Sri Vasavi Gold & Bullion Pvt. Ltd.,
                          CMA No.813/2016, dated 08.08.2017 (DB) (Madras High Court)
                                   (iv) 2014 (35) STR 68 (Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. v. Commissioner of
                          Customs and Central Excise, Noida) (DB) (Allahabad)
                                   (v) 2017 (7) GSTL 202 (Commissioner of Service Tax v. DLF Golf Resorts
                          Ltd.) (DB) (P&H)
                                   (vi) M/s. JSK Film Corporation, Rep. by its Sole Proprietor, J.Sathish
                          Kumar v. The Additional Commissioner of Service Tax and two others
                          (W.P.Nos.28384 & 28385 of 2017) dated 07.11.2017 (DB) (Madras High Court).
                                   12. I have heard all learned counsel exhaustively on the question of
                          maintainability. As far as the question of maintainability and alternative remedy
                          is concerned, it is all too well settled that where a legal infirmity is pointed out
                          and established, there is no fetter on this Court to consider the validity or
                          otherwise of such order of assessment of even a show cause notice. The golden
                          rule of guidance is that, as a rule, the court will exercise extreme restraint in
                          interfering in such matters, except where the petitioner satisfies the Court that
                          one or more of the following exceptions exist in the case in question, bearing in
                          mind that the flaw alleged should go to the root of the matter and should be
                          purely legal in nature. Instances of such illegality may be culled from several
                          judgements of the Supreme Court to be (a) a challenge to the constitutionality
                          or vires of a statutory provision (b) a bar of limitation (c) assumption of
                          jurisdiction by the officer where none exists (iii) patent and apparent illegality in
                          the framing of the order, in contravention of the statutory provisions in play. Of
                          course, in determining the aforesaid, the Court will not embark upon an
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               14
                          examination of disputed facts and will concern itself solely with the legal
                          provisions involved, and their interpretation. Since the interpretation of the law
                          cannot be undertaken in a vacuum, the facts admitted by all parties to the lis
                          shall form the backdrop for such application and analysis of the applicable legal
                          provisions.
                                13. It is indeed correct that a Division Bench of this Court in the case of
                          AGS Entertainment Private Limited (supra) considered a challenge to the
                          provisions of Sections 65(105)(zzzzt) of the Finance Act, 1994 bringing within
                          the ambit of service tax income generated from ‘temporary transfer or
                          permitting the use or enjoyment of any copyright’ as defined under the CR Act.
                          At paragraph 59, the Division Bench frames the issue before it in the following
                          manner:-
                                             ’59. Whether “temporary transfer of copyright or
                                      permission to use or enjoyment” amounts to sale of
                                      “goods” or “deemed sale” within the meaning of Article
                                      366(29A) of the Constitution, as contended by the
                                      Petitioners is to be examined, keeping in view the
                                      normal business practice in the film industry and in the
                                      light of the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
                                      Court in various decisions upholding the levy of service
                                      tax.’
                                14. The decision exhaustively examines the transactions between the
                          producers and the distributors and in conclusion upholds the vires of Section 65
                          (105) (zzzzt) of the Act. This is what the Bench states at paragraph 110:-
                                               ‘110. Conclusion:- We hold that the variant modes
                                        of business transactions between the producer and
                                        distributor, distributor and sub-distributor or area
                                        distributor or exhibitor (theatre owner) are not “sale of
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                               15
                                       goods” to fall under Entry 54 List II or Entry 92A List I.
                                       By resorting to Entry 97 of List I Residuary Entry to levy
                                       service tax, the Parliament is within its legislative
                                       competence and Section 65(105)(zzzzt) is not ultra vires
                                       the Constitution. From the production of the
                                       cinematograph film till it is exhibited, there are host of
                                       commercial activities. Service tax is the value added tax,
                                       which applies to the business transactions for
                                       consideration involving commercial activities. Over all,
                                       there is a huge rise in business of film industry and huge
                                       money is involved. The temporary transactions of
                                       copyrights or the permission to use or enjoyment of the
                                       copyright cannot be brought either under Entry 54 of List
                                       II or Entry 92A of List I. Applying the ratio of the
                                       decisions of the Supreme Court, we hold that the
                                       Parliament is well within its legislative competence in
                                       levying service tax resorting to Entry 97 of List I.’
                                15. The issue before me is not a challenge to the statutory provisions,
                          but an alleged, gross mis-interpretation of the same. The petitioners are
                          certainly bound by the provisions, as they exist, particularly seeing as their
                          constitutionality has been upheld. However, the case of the petitioners’ is that
                          the provisions have been erroneously interpreted and applied to the business
                          transactions in their case. The applicable provisions in question straddle two
                          statutes – the Finance Act 1994 levying Service tax and The Copyright Act
                          1957. The interpretation and interplay adopted by the Revenue is wholly
                          contrary to the basic scheme of the statutes, particularly the CR Act, and if such
                          interpretation is left untouched, the purport and scheme of both statutes would
                          stand distorted. It is on the aforesaid premise that the writ petitions have been
                          filed. Whether the petitioners’ are correct in their averments and allegations
                          against the Revenue is a different matter. However, one thing is clear. The lis
                          before the Division Bench is entirely different from the lis projected before me.
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                              16
                          For the aforesaid reasons, I do not believe that the conclusion of the Division
                          Bench in the case of AGS Entertainments impinges on the maintainability of the
                          present writ petitions.
                                  16. As far as the other decisions relied upon by the Revenue are
                          concerned, they are all distinguishable in law in so far as they relate to Writ
                          Petitions filed challenging orders of the Customs, Excise and Service tax
                          Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) (United Bleachers, Royal Bank of Scotland and DLF
                          Gold Resort (supra)), and an Appeal filed in terms of section 130 of the
                          Customs Act, Sri Vasavi Gold & Bullion Pvt. Ltd (supra), all turning on the
                          question as to whether the lis would lie before the Supreme Court or the High
                          Court for resolution. This is not the dispute before me. In the decision in the
                          case of T.T.Krishnamachari, the court was reluctant to interfere for the reason
                          that the matter involved disputed facts. The decision in the case of JSK Film
                          Corporation doe not appear germane to the case in point. In fine, none of the
                          decisions relied upon advance the case of the Revenue. The writ petitions are
                          thus maintainable and I hold so.
                                  17. I now advert to the merits of the arguments of the parties. The
                          conclusions of the assessing authorities are best expressed in their own words
                          and the offending portion of the impugned show cause notice and two orders of
                          assessment, the rationale of which would extend in common to all petitioners,
                          are extracted below:-
                                  Extract from Show Cause Notice dated 17.09.2018 in W.P.30085 of
                          2018:
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                             17
                              ....
10\. Summary In view of the foregoing it appears that, • Vendhar Movies is a
cinema production company engaged in producing films and engaged in purchase,
market and distribution of films; • It was started in August 2012 with two
partners viz Shri Madhan and Shri Balagurunathan and later during November
2015, Shri Balagurunathan had withdrawn from the partnership and Shri Madhan
became the sole proprietor of Vendhar Movies;
• They are the absolute copyright holder engaged in transfer of Copyrights for
the films produced by them in respect of satellite rights, audio rights, FMS
rights, etc. and also temporarily transferred or permitted the use/enjoyment
of copyrights of the film for various satellite channels;
• Vendhar Movies have produced two films, viz Thillu Mullu 2 and Payum Puli
during the period June 13 and Sep 15 respectively; during the production of
the film, Thillu Mullu 2, an Under production agreement was entered into by
Vendhar Movies with M/s Vijay Television Private Limited for transfer of
satellite rights of the film and they earned consideration on the same; •
Vendhar Movies have temporarily assigned and permitted the use and enjoyment
of the copyright to M/s Vijay Television Network Ltd., the Satellite rights of
the Tamil feature film “Thillu Mullu 2” produced by the for a perpetual period
for a consideration of Rs 2,99,00,000/-;
• For the movies “Paayum Puli: and “Lal Bahadhur Shastri”, Vendhar Movies have
earned into an agreement with M/s Sun TV Network Limited and have temporarily
assigned and permitted the use and enjoyment of the copyright of the movie
produced by them for a perpetual period for a consideration of
Rs.3,00,00,000/- and Rs.2,25,00,000/- respectively;
• From the assignment agreement entered with M/s Sun TV, it appears that the
assignment of copyright for the broadcast of the films will be restricted only
to the rights specified in clause 4 the agreement and M/s Vendhar Movies have
http://www.judis.nic.in  18 clearly retained their ownership with respect to
other rights other than those assigned to the assignees as discussed in para 3
of this notice; that the consideration received by M/s Vendhar Movies covered
under the taxable services- Copyright Service for the period from 1.4.2014; •
Though the intention of Vendhor Movies was to assign temporary transfer, the
terms ‘perpetual’ has been mentioned only to claim exemption from payment of
service tax; that further, from what was discussed in above paras, it appears
that, the temporary transfer of satellite rights is also classifiable and
liable to service tax under the category of taxable services. However, Vendhar
Movies have not paid the service tax on the consideration received by them in
connection with temporary transfer of copyrights.
• Vendhar Movies had not obtained service registration for providing such
taxable service at the material time and had not assessed the service tax
payable on such taxable services rendered by them and had not paid the same to
the exchequer at the material time....
Extract from Order-in-Original dated 09.07.2018 in W.P.29206 of 2018:
....
5.4. From the above provisions of the Acts and from various clauses of the
agreement it is clear that the activities of the assessee falls under the
Copyright service. However in order to know the taxability of the service the
nature of such transfer has to be decided. In Copyrights of Cinematographic
films, the producer of the film make commercial exploitation of these rights
in many ways including but not limited to theatre rights (both distribution &
exhibition), Satellite & Television rights, DVD rights, dubbing and remake
rights. Further, these rights will be granted to various people simultaneously
for exploitation in different regions, each active in one or more regions and
need to be licensed those separately. A transaction constitutes ‘permanent
transfer of copyright’ only in a case where entire copyright (all modes of
commercial exploitation) is transferred or leased to the exclusion of all
persons http://www.judis.nic.in  19 including owner of such copyright. On
perusal of the agreements, it is seen that, the entire bundle of rights is not
transferred as the copyright is capable of being exploited by different
entities for earning revenue. In these agreements, M/s.WFPL have transferred
enjoyment of the different copyrights as mentioned above to different parties,
for the same time period for exploitation in different regions or different
media. The agreement whose nature of transfer is in question does not bestow
rights outside the area of assignment. On perusal of various clauses in the
agreements it is seen that the producer or the absolute owner assign specific
rights for a specific territory, that the agreement does not bestow rights
outside the area of assignment and the distributor only gets positive prints
or digital copies of the film for exhibition of the film in a specified area.
From the above clauses of the assignment agreement it is clear that it is only
a temporary transfer of copyright or permission to broadcast the film in a
specified territory for a specified period of time.
5.5. Further these transactions cannot be called as absolute sale as in the
case of sale the buyer will acquire all the rights of the seller which will
enable him to exploit such acquired rights for unrestricted exploitation and
the seller would cease to have any rights which is not the case in the
transactions discussed above. In the case of first copy sale, all forms of
rights in respect of the films in question, are transferred to the Buyer, to
the exclusion of the seller / producer. This is clearly not the case in the
impugned agreements as Wunderbar do not cease to hold rights on the films.
While the producer retains his right to exploit that film, there is no
transfer of right to use the goods amounting to sale within the meaning of
Article 366(29A). On the other hand, it is a temporary transfer of copyright
or permitting its use or enjoyment by the lessee. As long as the producer does
not fully relinquish his right over the copyright held by him, transfer of
right to use is purely temporary and levy of service tax for such transfer of
copyright would apply.’ Extract from Order-in-Original dated 20.08.2018 in
W.P.1199 of 2019:
> ....
> 79\. Exclusion of permanent transfer of copyrights:-
> It is pertinent to note that permanent transfer of http://www.judis.nic.in
> 20 rights is excluded from service tax. At the time of levy of service tax
> on taxable service of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) as defined in
> Section 65(105)(zzr) of the act, the Department clarified as follows:
> “A permanent transfer of intellectual property right does not amount to
> rendering of service. On such transfer, the person selling these rights no
> longer remains a ‘holder of intellectual property rights’ so as to come
> under the purview of taxable service. Thus, there would not be any service
> tax on permanent transfer of IPRs.” (Circular No.80/10/2004-S.T., dated
> 17-9-2004 para 9.2).
The same proposition applies to copyright which is another form of
intellectual property right. Thus, permanent transfer of copyright will not
amount to rendering of service and therefore, will be excluded from the
purview of service tax.” 23.0. In fact the defence of AGS is also on these
lines. It has been argued that the assignment of copyright is on permanent
basis and since it is not a temporary transfer, no service tax is payable.
23.1. I proceed to examine the contention below. I find that it is relevant to
examine whether the transfer is ‘permanent’ or ‘temporary’ not on the basis of
the agreements churned out by the parties but by the copyright Act as such
agreements will have to stand the test of law. Here I find that the copyright
Act prescribes a specific method by which copyright can be renounced by the
owner. As per section 21 of the Copy Right Act, 1957\.
“21. Right of author to relinquish copyright.- (1) The author of a work may
relinquish all or any of the rights comprised in the copyright in the work by
giving notice in the prescribed from to the Registrar of Copyrights and
thereupon such rights shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (3),
cease to exist from the date of the notice.
(2) On receipt of a notice under sub-section (1), the Registrar of Copyrights
shall cause it to be published in the Official Gazette and in such other
manner as he may deem fit.
(3) The relinquishment of all or any of the rights comprised in the copyright
in a work shall not affect any rights subsisting in favour of any person on
the date of the notice referred to in sub-section.” http://www.judis.nic.in
21 23.2. Further Rule 5 of Copyright Rules, 1958, which deals with
relinquishment of Copy right read as follows:
“Notice of relinquishment.- The author of a work desiring to relinquish under
section 21 all or any of the rights comprised in the copyright in the work
shall give notice to the Registrar of Copyright in accordance with Form.”
23.3. I find that no relinquishment as contemplated in the Section 21 of the
Copyright Act, 1957 or Rule 5 of Copyright Rules, 1958 was performed by AGS.
In the absence of relinquishing the right as contemplated in the copyright Act
the ownership of the right does not shift to the assignee but reverts back to
the assignor after the said period in the agreement. Therefore I hold that
such copyright is only ‘temporary’ and cannot be called permanent in view of
the copyright act and without relinquishing the assignor has temporarily
permitted the use of enjoyment of copyright and such an assignment thereafter
cannot be considered permanent by any sort of reasoning whatsoever. Secondly,
I find that the argument of the assessee that the transfer can only be
‘permanent’ as it is for 99 years whereas Copyright Act itself is fighting
piracy, these arguments are merely theoretical and no meaningful conclusion
that the transfer is ‘permanent’ can be drawn because the assignment agreement
provided for much more no. of years than protected by copyright.
23.4. In the agreements also nowhere it has been stated that by way of
assignment the owner relinquished their copyright in favour of the assignee.
AGS, it appears, feel that he can simply evade service tax merely by putting
assignment for ‘perpetuity’ under the misguided notation that such an
agreement should be a ‘sale’ and not ‘lease’ as applied to goods/property. I
therefore find that there is merit in the argument given by DGCEI that AGS has
simply stated that the transfer is permanent without intending to do so in as
much as he continues to be the owner of the intellectual property/copyright. I
find that what is applicable to ‘goods’ cannot be blindly applied to
intellectual property and any assignment agreement of such an intellectual
property for ‘perpetuity’ to blindfold it to be a sale of goods only proves
AG’s intention to evade. Therefore even by way of assignment for ‘perpetuity’
also the title http://www.judis.nic.in  22 does not get transferred to the
assignee as can be seen from the agreements of assignment. In the absence of
explicit statement relinquishing copyright which amounts to equivalent of
conferring ‘title’ to the assignee in the agreements, the transfer effected by
way of assignment is only a temporary transfer. Since there is no transfer of
title, the assignor/AGS has allowed enjoyment of certain rights to the
assignee. This enjoyment is in the form of oversees rights, satellite rights,
dubbing rights, etc, is without any permanent transfer. The assignee has no
right to modify, alter etc, which are the rights that would arise when the
title is transferred to the assignee.
24\. From the above discussion I find it is the duty of the service provider
to properly classify their service, get themselves registered for the taxable
services provided by them , file ST-3 returns and to determine and pay their
correct tax liability, which they failed. Had the officers of DGCEI not
conducted the detailed inquiry, the said rendering of taxable services by AGS
would have escaped assessment and resulted in non payment of service tax. They
were aware of the facts regarding payment of service tax on the above services
rendered by them and disguised such temporary transfer of copy right as
transfer for perpetual period to claim the same as permanent transfer of copy
right. The suppression with intent to evade payment, on part of AGS is proved
beyond doubt and proviso to Section 73(1) of the Finance Act, 1994 has been
rightly invoked in the instant case and the demand of service tax for the
period 2010- 11 (July 2010 to March 2011) to 2014-15 is justified.
....
28.2. In the instant case, as suppression of the material facts have been
established beyond doubt as discussed above, I consider this as a fit case for
imposing penalty under Section 78 of the Finance Act, 1994\. AGS’s intention
to evade is established beyond doubt in as much as he entered into assignment
agreements incorporating clauses like ‘permanent transfer/perpetual
transfer/assigned for perpetuity etc., which are applicable to ‘goods’ and not
‘intellectual property’ like copyright and thereby misleading the dept that no
service is provided by them. But for the detailed investigation done, this
evasion could not have been unearthed and AGS make themselves liable for
mandatory penalty. This gets compounded by the fact http://www.judis.nic.in
23 that there is a High court Judgment in department’s favour in which AGS is
also a party. Therefore AGS cannot also claim that the matter involves
interpretation of law and therefore penalty is not applicable. Even after the
same, AGS deserves to be penalized under section 78 of the Finance Act, 1994.
Further AGS is also liable to penalty under Section 77 of Finance Act, 1994 as
they failed to take registration and comply with other provisions of the
services tax law.
18\. Taxability of IPR and copyright service has to be strictly within the
contours and prescription of section 65(105)(zzzzt) of the Act read in tandem
with the relevant provisions of the CR Act. The purpose of the charging
provision under the Act is only to bring to tax income from those services
that constitute a ‘temporary transfer’ of IPR. The provision thus addresses,
apparently, an intangible right. To that extent, the observation of the
respondent in the order-in-original in the case of AGS Entertainment extracted
above (paras 23.3 & 23.4), to the effect that the phrases ‘permanent
transfer/perpetual transfer/assigned for perpetuity etc.’, are only applicable
to ‘goods’ and not ‘intellectual property’ like copyright is clearly contrary
to the very statutory provision in terms of which the assessment is sought to
be made. This is a perverse observation that runs counter to the statutory
provisions involved.
19\. The petitioners have admittedly transferred independent rights relating
to the exhibition of Cinematograph films to the Television Channels.
According to the Assessing Authority, it is only if the film was transferred,
in entirety, that the transfer would amount to a ‘perpetual’ transfer and
nothing short thereof. The transfer of any part of the copyright relating to a
specific http://www.judis.nic.in  24 aspect of the cinematographic film would
only be temporary in nature. This, in essence, is the argument of the
respondent.
20\. In order to appreciate the controversy raised by the Service tax
Department, it is necessary to advert to some of the provisions of the CR Act
and understand the scheme of the statute, its purport and the interplay with
the provisions of the Act.
21\. The provisions of Section 13 of the CR Act detail the works in which
copyright subsists and states that subject to the provisions of this Section
and other provisions of the CR Act, copyright shall subsist throughout India
in: a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works; (b)
cinematograph films;
and (c) sound recording. ‘Copyright’ is defined in Section 14 as follows:-
> ‘14. Meaning of Copyright.— For the purposes of this Act, “copyright” means
> the exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or
> authorise the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any
> substantial part thereof, namely:—
> (a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a
> computer programme,—
> (i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it
> in any medium by electronic means;
> (ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
> circulation;
> (iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public; (iv)
> to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work;
> (v) to make any translation of the work;
> (vi) to make any adaptation of the work;
> (vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any
> of the acts specified in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (vi);
> (b) in the case of a computer programme,—
> (i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a);
> (ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for
> commercial rental any copy of the computer programme:
http://www.judis.nic.in  25 Provided that such commercial rental does not
apply in respect of computer programmes where the programme itself is not the
essential object of the rental.
(c) in the case of an artistic work,—
(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including — (A) the storing of
it in any medium by electronic or other means; or (B) depiction in three-
dimensions of a two- dimensional work; or (C) depiction in two-dimensions of a
three- dimensional work;
(ii) to communicate the work to the public;
(iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;
(iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;
(v) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vi) to do in relation to adaptation of the work any of the acts specified in
relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to
(iv);
(d) in the case of a cinematograph film,—
(i) to make a copy of the film, including— (A) a photograph of any image
forming part thereof; or (B) storing of it in any medium by electronic or
other means;
(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such
rental, any copy of the film;
(iii) to communicate the film to the public;
(e) in the case of a sound recording,—
(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it including storing of it in
any medium by electronic or other means;
(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such
rental, any copy of the sound recording;
(iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public.’
22\. In the present case, there is no dispute with the position that the
petitioners are producers or purchasers, and thus, owners of the copyright in
cinematograph films.
23\. The Proviso to Section 17 of the CR Act recognizes the independent
http://www.judis.nic.in  26 copyright of first owners of individual works
incorporated in a film and reads thus:-
> ‘...Provided that in case of any work incorporated in a cinematograph work,
> nothing contained in clauses (b) and (c) shall affect the right of the
> author in the work referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section
> 13.’
> 24\. Sections 18 of the CR Act deals with assignment of copyright in the
> following terms:
> 18\. Assignment of copyright.— (1) The owner of the copyright in an existing
> work or the prospective owner of the copyright in a future work may assign
> to any person the copyright either wholly or partially and either generally
> or subject to limitations and either for the whole term of the copyright or
> any part thereof:
> ....
> (2) Where the assignee of a copyright becomes entitled to any right
> comprised in the copyright, the assignee as respects the rights so assigned,
> and the assignor as respects the rights not assigned, shall be treated for
> the purposes of this Act as the owner of copyright and the provisions of
> this Act shall have effect accordingly.
> (3) In this section, the expression “assignee” as respects the assignment of
> the copyright in any future work includes the legal representatives of the
> assignee, if the assignee dies before the work comes into existence.
> 25\. Sub-Section (2) recognizes the separate and concurrent rights of an
> assignor & assignee in respect of the assets and underlying rights, assigned
> or retained, as the case may be. Section 19 stipulates the mode of
> assignment stating that ‘no assignment of the copyright in any work shall be
> valid unless it is in writing signed by the assignor or by his duly
> authorised agent.’
> 26\. The provisions of Section 56 of CR Act also makes it clear that an
> http://www.judis.nic.in  27 asset comprises of several components, each
> holding an independent copyright in its own right. The Section states thus:-
> ‘56. Protection of separate rights.— Subject to the provisions of this Act,
> where the several rights comprising the copyright in any work are owned by
> different persons, the owner of any such right shall, to the extent of that
> right, be entitled to the remedies provided by this Act and may individually
> enforce such right by means of any suit, action or other proceeding without
> making the owner of any other right a party to such suit, action or
> proceeding....’
> 27\. A conjoint reading of the provisions of Sections 13, 14, 17, 18, 19 and
> 56 make it clear that the term ‘copyright’ denotes a specific and special
> right bestowed by statute. It may relate to one of several kinds of creative
> inputs, the sum total of which/portions of which, may constitute different
> assets, each holding a different underlying copyright.
> 28\. A cinematograph film, the asset that we are concerned with in the
> present batch of cases, is perhaps one of the best illustrations of this
> concept.
The cinematograph film holds a copyright in its own right, as a whole.
However, the film, as an asset, comprises of various smaller but equally
important components, such as the script, screenplay, background score, song
lyrics, melody, instrumentation, orchestration, the use of light and camera
work, to name a few. While the sum total of these inputs results in a film,
the copyright of which will be held by the producer, each component thereof
carries an independent and distinct copyright. This has given rise to the
expression, ‘bundle of rights’, as per which the film holds a copyright by
itself and also comprises of small, but equally distinct rights within itself.
It is the lack of http://www.judis.nic.in  28 appreciation of the aforesaid
point that, in my view, is the fundamental and fatal flaw in the impugned show
cause notice and orders of assessment.
29\. I can do no better that to quote from the judgement of the Supreme Court
in the case of Indian Performing Right Society Ltd. Vs. Eastern Indian Motion
Pictures Association and Others [PTC (Suppl) (1) 877 (SC)], where Justice
V.R.Krishna Iyer, in conclusion and to supplement the majority judgment,
states thus:
> 22\. A cinematograph is a felicitous blend, a beautiful totality, a
> constellation of stars, if I may use these lovely imageries to drive home my
> point, slurring over the rule against mixed metaphor. Cinema is more. than
> long strips of celluloid, more than miracles in photography, more than song,
> dance and dialogue and indeed, more than dramatic story, exciting plot,
> gripping situations and marvellous acting. But it is that ensemble which is
> the finished product of orchestrated performance by each of the several
> participants, although the components may, sometimes, in themselves be
> elegant entities. Copyright in a cinema film exists in law, but Section
> 13(4) of the Act preserves the separate survival, in its individuality, of a
> copyright enjoyed by any 'work' notwithstanding its confluence in the film.
> This persistence of the aesthetic 'personality' of the intellectual property
> cannot cut down the copyright of the film qua film. The latter right is, as
> explained earlier in my learned brother's judgment, set out indubitably in
> Section 14(1)(c)...
30\. It is thus, too well settled, that an asset, such as a cinematograph
film, comprises of a bundle of rights. Setting this principle against the
context and purpose of Section 65(105)(zzzzt), the ‘right’ mentioned therein,
relates to the right in the film as well as each of such rights comprised in
the film. The interpretation accorded by the Department tends to ignore the
fact that the taxable service under Service Tax Law is of ‘any copyright’
denoting all rights, http://www.judis.nic.in  29 that which vests in film as a
whole, or any of the smaller but equally important rights comprised in the
making of the film itself. The impugned notice and orders-in-original, to the
extent to which they do not indicate appreciation as well as application of
the aforesaid, are erroneous in law and are liable to be quashed.
31\. The respondent relies on the provisions of Section 21 of CR Act,
extracted below:-
> “21. Right of author to relinquish copyright. – (1) The author of a work may
> relinquish all or any of the rights comprised in the copyright in the work
> by giving notice in the prescribed form to [the Registrar of Copyrights or
> by way of public notice] and thereupon such rights shall, subject to the
> provisions of sub-section (3), cease to exist from the date of the notice.
> (2) On receipt of a notice under sub-section (1), the Registrar of
> Copyrights shall cause it to be published in the Official Gazette and in
> such other manner as he may deem fit.
[(2-A) The Registrar of Copy rights shall, within fourteen days from the
publication of the notice in the Official Gazette, post the notice on the
official website of the Copyright Office so as to remain in the public domain
for a period of not less than three years.] (3) The relinquishment of all or
any of the rights comprised in the copyright in a work shall not affect any
rights subsisting in favour of any person on the date of the notice referred
to in sub-section (1).”
32\. The respondent appears to have entirely missed the ambit and scope of
Section 21 extracted above. Section 21 deals with the ‘relinquishment’ or the
‘giving up’ of a right and not the ‘assignment’ thereof. The two are different
concepts. The assignment of a copyright is by way of transfer, dealt with
under section 18 and 19 of the CR Act. On the other hand, sub-section (1) of
Section 21 entitles the author to ‘relinquish’ the whole or any part of the
rights http://www.judis.nic.in  30 comprised in the work. This cannot be
equated with a ‘transfer’ of a copyright which is what is dealt with under the
Act for the purposes of levy of Service tax.
Reference to Section 21 by the respondents is wholly misconceived as it hardly
comes to their aid. Rather, it supports the case of the petitioners as,
incidentally, Section 21 itself provides for the entitlement of an author to
relinquish his copyright specifically using the phrase ‘all or any of the
rights comprised in the copy rights in the work’. This supports the conclusion
that a work may either comprise of a ‘single right’ or a ‘bundle of rights’,
some that may be relinquished and others that are pursued and will survive.
33\. The petitioners before me all confirm that the documentation entered into
by them with Television Channels specifically uses the word ‘perpetual’ and
this is specifically and fairly admitted by Mr.Sundareshwaran.
Apparently, in such a case, the transaction clearly stands outside the ambit
of service tax. The stand of the Department is that the use of the word
‘perpetual’ is a mere camouflage. The Assessing Authority proceeds on the
basis that the use of the words ‘in perpetuity’ are not in consonance with the
spirit of the agreement and is only used to disguise the actual fact that the
transfer was temporary and to avoid tax. However, this is only a suspicion and
nothing is brought on record to prove the allegation.
34\. As regards the use of the word ‘revocable’ in some agreements, the
argument of the petitioners that the revocability is solely restricted to
those situations where the consideration for the right has not been remitted
in full by the purchaser, appears, prima facie, reasonable and acceptable. It
is, of course, http://www.judis.nic.in  31 for the assessing officer to
determine any aberrations or deviations, in fact, to the aforesaid submission
in the course of assessment proceedings and consequently, either accept or
reject the stand of the assessee on a case to case basis.
35\. An assessment under service tax law is to be based on material available
on record and cannot base itself only upon suspicion. No doubt, the Department
is empowered to pierce the veil and disprove the averments of an assessee, and
to this effect, call upon the assessee to produce all material that the
Department or assessee itself believes are necessary to establish its case. It
is also entitled to go behind the apparent and assess a transaction as it
really is, rather than what the contract/agreement portrays it to be. Though
the initial burden is upon an assessee to establish the proper nature of a
transaction and the stand taken by it in law and on facts, once it has done
so, such burden then shift upon the department to disprove the picture painted
by the assessee and establish the falsity of the agreement as well as the true
nature of transaction entered into between the parties. This burden is not
discharged in the present cases and the officers merely allege falsity
without, in any manner, being able to disturb the transaction as portrayed by
the petitioners.
36\. This Court, in the case of Mrs.K.Bagyalakshmi v. Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Media Circle-I, Chennai (265 CTR 545), has decided the following
substantial questions of law raised for its resolution in terms of Section
260-A of the Income Tax Act 1961:
1.Whether on the facts and circumstances of the http://www.judis.nic.in  32
case, the learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal erred in upholding the
disallowance under Section 40(a)(ia) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as against
the appellant?
2.Whether the learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal erred in failing to
appreciate the proposition that a disallowance of expenses under Section
40(a)(ia) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 would not lie on payments already made?
3.Whether the learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal erred in concluding that
the payments made by the appellant were tantamount to Royalty?
4.Whether the learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal erred in relying upon the
decision of a Co- ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the Shri Balaji
Communications case?
5.Whether the learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal’s findings are perverse on
the facts and circumstances of the case, and therefore liable to be set
aside?”
37\. The Division Bench was concerned with the case of an individual who was
carrying on business in purchase and sale of Telugu Films and whether she was
liable to deduct tax at source under Section 194-J of the Act on the amounts
paid for purchase of film rights. The case of the Department was that the
amount paid for purchase of film rights was of the nature of royalty liable to
deduction of tax at source under Section 194-J of the Act. The rights had been
transferred by the petitioner for a period of 99 years and the assessee
contended that the transfer for 99 years would constitute an outright sale of
all rights in the film whereas the Department contended that the copy right in
the film was itself only for a period of 60 years. While deciding this issue
the Division Bench of this Court in Para-17 says as follows:
> ‘17.We have seen the various conditions contained in the sample transfer
> deed and there is a transfer of copy right in favour of the assessee. Though
> the agreement speaks of perpetual transfer for a period of 99 years, in
> terms of Section http://www.judis.nic.in  33 26 of the Copy Right Act, 1957,
> in the case of cinematographic film, copy right shall subsist until 60 years
> from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the
> film is published. Therefore, the agreement in the case on hand, is beyond
> the period of 60 years, for which the copy right would be valid, the
> document could only be treated as one of sale.”
> 38\. In the present case admittedly all agreements use the term ‘perpetual
> transfer’ and some transfer the asset specifically for a period of 99 years,
> both in excess of the period of 60 years set out under the provisions of the
> CR Act. The assignment is, simplicitor, permanent/perpetual and seen not
> temporary. In this backdrop, the conclusion of the respondents to the effect
> that a perpetual transfer or a transfer for 99 years, though in excess of
> the period stipulated in the Act, is temporary, appears, to me,
> fundamentally unsound and defies logic.
39\. In fine, I am of the categoric view that the provisions of the CR Act
have not been looked at or applied in the proper perspective in the impugned
SCN/orders. In the light of the discussions and reasons as set out above I am
inclined to set aside the impugned show cause notice (WP.No.30085 of 2018) and
orders-in-original (WP.Nos.29206 & 14425 of 2018, 1199 & 5131 of 2019).
The Department is given full liberty to initiate proceedings afresh, bearing
in mind the observations and conclusions as above, in accordance with law. The
aspect of limitation shall also be gone into afresh bearing in mind the burden
that is imposed upon the Department in terms of Section 73 and specifically
the proviso thereto, in the facts and circumstances of the present assessees.
The http://www.judis.nic.in  34 writ petitions are allowed in the above terms.
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
5\. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise, Chennai South, M.H.U. Complex
No.692, 5th Floor, Anna Salai, Nandanam, Chennai 600 035 W.P.Nos.30085, 14425
& 29206 of 2018 5131 & 1199 of 2019 & WMP Nos. 35098, 17040 & 34134 of 2018 &
5849 & 1351 of 2019 http://www.judis.nic.in
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
                          Wunderbar Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by Mr.S.Vinod Kumar, Director,
                          No.13/6, 4th Floor, Jaganathan Road,
                          Chennai 600 034                          ... Petitioner in W.P.No.29206/2018
                                                                      & Petitioner in W.P.No.5131/2019
                          M/s. AGS Entertainment Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Director (M/55),
                          Flat No.B-2 First Floor,
                          Shoba Flats, No.12, 10th Avenue,
                          Ashok Nagar, Chennai – 600 083                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.1199/2019
                                                                 vs.
                          1. The Joint Director,
                             O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar, Chennai – 600 0902.
                          2. Additional Commissioner,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   2
                             O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
                          Wunderbar Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by Mr.S.Vinod Kumar, Director,
                          No.13/6, 4th Floor, Jaganathan Road,
                          Chennai 600 034                          ... Petitioner in W.P.No.29206/2018
                                                                      & Petitioner in W.P.No.5131/2019
                          M/s. AGS Entertainment Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Director (M/55),
                          Flat No.B-2 First Floor,
                          Shoba Flats, No.12, 10th Avenue,
                          Ashok Nagar, Chennai – 600 083                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.1199/2019
                                                                 vs.
                          1. The Joint Director,
                             O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar, Chennai – 600 0902.
                          2. Additional Commissioner,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   2
                             O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
                          Wunderbar Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by Mr.S.Vinod Kumar, Director,
                          No.13/6, 4th Floor, Jaganathan Road,
                          Chennai 600 034                          ... Petitioner in W.P.No.29206/2018
                                                                      & Petitioner in W.P.No.5131/2019
                          M/s. AGS Entertainment Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Director (M/55),
                          Flat No.B-2 First Floor,
                          Shoba Flats, No.12, 10th Avenue,
                          Ashok Nagar, Chennai – 600 083                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.1199/2019
                                                                 vs.
                          1. The Joint Director,
                             O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar, Chennai – 600 0902.
                          2. Additional Commissioner,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   2
                             O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai South Commissionerate,
                             No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam,
                             Chennai 600 035                         ... Respondents in WP No.30085/2018
                          3. Principal Additional Director General,
                             Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
                             Chennai 600 090                              ... R-1 in WP No.14425/2018
                          4. The Principal Commissioner,
                             Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai North Commissionerate,
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
                          Chennai 600 017                              ... Petitioner in W.P.No.14425/2018
                          Wunderbar Films Private Limited,
                          Represented by Mr.S.Vinod Kumar, Director,
                          No.13/6, 4th Floor, Jaganathan Road,
                          Chennai 600 034                          ... Petitioner in W.P.No.29206/2018
                                                                      & Petitioner in W.P.No.5131/2019
                          M/s. AGS Entertainment Private Limited,
                          Represented by its Director (M/55),
                          Flat No.B-2 First Floor,
                          Shoba Flats, No.12, 10th Avenue,
                          Ashok Nagar, Chennai – 600 083                ... Petitioner in W.P.No.1199/2019
                                                                 vs.
                          1. The Joint Director,
                             O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar, Chennai – 600 0902.
                          2. Additional Commissioner,
    http://www.judis.nic.in
                                                                   2
                             O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai South Commissionerate,
                             No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam,
                             Chennai 600 035                         ... Respondents in WP No.30085/2018
                          3. Principal Additional Director General,
                             Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
                             Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor,
                             Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
                             Chennai 600 090                              ... R-1 in WP No.14425/2018
                          4. The Principal Commissioner,
                             Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise,
                             Chennai North Commissionerate,
Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed with no order as to
costs.
16.04.2019 Speaking Order Internet: Yes Index: Yes ska Issue order copy on
03/06/2019 http://www.judis.nic.in  35 Dr.ANITA SUMANTH,J., ska To
1\. The Joint Director, O/o. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence,
Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, 2nd Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant Nagar,
Chennai – 600 0902
2\. Additional Commissioner, O/o. The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise,
Chennai South Commissionerate, No.692 M.H.U. Complex, Nandanam, Chennai 600
035
3\. Principal Additional Director General, Directorate General of GST
Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Unit, C-3 C-Wing, II Floor, Rajaji Bhavan, Besant
Nagar, Chennai 600 090
4\. The Principal Commissioner, Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST &
Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, No.26/1 Mahathma Gandhi Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034
