Delhi High Court
N.R. Dongre And Ors. vs Whirlpool Corporation And Anr. on 21 April, 1995
Equivalent citations: AIR 1995 Delhi 300, 1995 (34) DRJ 109
Author: A D Singh
Bench: M Rao, A D Singh
JUDGMENT Anil Dev Singh, J.
(1) This is an appeal against the order of the learned Single Judge dated
October 31, 1994 whereby the application of the respondents (who are
plaintiffs in Suit No.1705/94) under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 Civil Procedure
Code seeking an ad interim injunction restraining the appellants(defendants in
the above said suit) from passing off their goods as that of the respondents
was allowed and the appellants were restrained from manufacturing, selling,
advertising or in any way using the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in any other trade
mark deceptively or confusingly similar to the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in
respect of their goods. The appeal arises in the following circumstances:-
(2) The first respondent, which is the first plaintiff in the suit, is an
American Corporation, organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware, USA. The second respondent, a Company registered in India, is a
joint venture company established by the first respondent and a company called
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
against the appellants for permanent injunction, passing off and damages.
(3) According to the plaint the first respondent is engaged in the
manufacture, sale, distribution and servicing of washing machines under the
trade mark WHIRLPOOL. It has, directly or through vs subsidiaries, more than
2000 trade mark registrations all over the world. In India its trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' was registered on February 22, 1956 in respect of clothes dryers,
washers, dishwashers, vacuum. cleaners, air- conditioners, dehumidifers,
freezers etc. in Classes 7,9 and 11. The registralions were renewed up to the
year 1977 hut despite instructions of the first respondent for renewal of
registration in Class 7 and 9, the registrations lapsed due to lack of proper
communication with its counsel. Notwithstanding the lapsed registration, the
trade mark of the first respondent was used in this country through sale of
its washing machines to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid offices in New Delhi and
also through advertisements in various publications having a circulation in
India. Besides the products of the first respondent were reaching the Indian
consumers in a second hand State or through indirect channels. Plaint also
refers to the recent liberal economic policy as a result whereof, in the year
1987, it established a .joint venture known as Tvs Whirlpool Ltd.' The
respondents thereafter filed 9 applications for registration of trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' in Classes 7,9 and 11 in respect of their goods including washing
machines which arc pending in the Trade Mark Registry (4) The plaint also
alludes to the fact that the trademark 'WHIRLPOOL' belonging to the first
respondent has, acquired global reputation. According to the issue of- July
25, 1994 of 'FORTUNE Global 500' rated the first respondent as the 207th
largest Corporation' in the world in terms of sales and the 30th largest
Global Corporation dealing in electronic and electrical equipments. It also
points out that its name is also included in the 1992 edition of the book
'World Class Business' - a Guide to the 100 Most Powerful Global
Corporations," by Phillip Mattero. It also claims that as a result of
extensive advertising and promotional efforts, its products including washing
machines, have acquired immense reputation and the trade, mark ' WHIRLPOOL' is
being associated with the goods of the first respondent.
(5) On August 6, 1986 a Trust known as 'Chinar. Trust' through its trustees,
first and second appellants, applied to the' Registrar of.Trade Marks for
registration of trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of washing machines. In the
application it was claimed that the trademark was being used by it since July
1986. The respondents on coming to know about the application of Chinar Trust
from the Mark Journal 945 dated October 16, 1988, filed their opposition on
January 16, 1989 under section 21(1) of the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act,
1958 (for short 'the Act'). On September 21, 1989 the 'Chinar Trust' filed
their counter slatem.enl. Thereafter on December 5, 1990 the respondents in
support of their opposition filed an affidavit of one Lawrence John Kremer
dated December 5, 1990. On the other hand, the 'Chinar Trust' filed the
affidavit of one Mr. Pradeep Singhal 'dated October 3, 1-991. The respondents
in reply filed another affidavit of Lawrence Johit. Kremer dated December 19,
1991. On August 12, 1992 the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks.al Delhi,
howevcr,'dismisse'd the opposition of the respondents and accepted the
application of 'M/s.Chinar Trust' inter, alia on the ground that knowledge and
reputation of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of the goods of the first
respondent was restricted to special feed class of people in India and the
same was not sufficient to determine the likelihood of confusion by the use of
trade mark by the applicant. The respondents not being satisfied with the
order of the Assistant Registrar, Trade Marks, filed an appeal to this Court
under section 109(2) of the Act which came to he admitted on February 1, 1993
and is still pending for disposal. On November 30, 1992 trade name 'WHIRLPOOL'
was registered by Trade Marks Registry in favor of the 'Chinar Trust', in
accordance with the above said order of the Assistant Registrar. On August 4,
1993 the respondents filed a petition under sections 46 and 56 of the Act for
cancellation and removal of trade mark registration issued in favor of the
'Chinar Trust'. Thereafter the respondents came across an advertisement in
Hindi Daily Dainik Jagran, Lucknow Edition of July 2, 1994 inserted by Sadhna
Electric Company, Chander Nagar Market, Lucknow as principal dealer, of
'WHIRLPOOL' washing. machines, requiring dealers for the said machines. The
same advertisement appeared in Hindustan Times (Delhi edition) of July 9, 1994
as well. The advertisement interalia mentioned that 'WHIRLPOOL' was the"
registered trade, mark of the 'Chinar Trust', New Delhi. The second respondent
thereafter purchased a. washing machine marketed by the appellants. This
machine was examined by an employee of the respondents and found that the
product was inferior to the product manufactured by the first respondent. The
respondents approached 'Chinar Trust' for settlement of the dispute hut the
latter demanded a large sum of money for giving up its claim to the trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL'. The respondents then Filed :i Miil, being Suit'No.17()5/94, from
which this appeal arises. In the suit, the learned Single judge by a detailed
order granted ad interim injunction restraining the appellants from
manufacturing, selling,, advertising or in any way using the word 'WHIRLPOOL'
or any other trade mark deceptively or confusingly similar to the trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of the goods of the appellants hut at the same time
gave liberty to the appellants to move an application under Order 39 Rule 4
Civil Procedure Code for vacation of the order on the basis of any new
material consisting of facts, documents and evidence which they were not able
to produce before him. However, the appellants without following the course
suggested by the learned Single Judge, have filed the present appeal.
(6) We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length. Before us the
learned counsel for the appellants has urged as follows:-
(7) The First respondent abandoned the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' by allowing its
registration to expire in the year 1977. The respondents did not have any
commercial use of the trade mark in India. On the contrary, the appellants had
started using the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' from 1986,and had also filed an
application in the same year for registration of the same in its favor when
thcre.was not even an application for registration of the said trade mark by
the respondents. 'Chinar Trust' is the only registered proprietor of trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of the washing machines etc. The appellants have
therefore the exclusive right to use the trade mark in this country. The grant
of registration of trade mark on November 30, 1992 with effect from August 6,
1986 gives the appellants exclusive right to use the trade mark under, section
28 of the Act. The effect of injuncting the. appellants from using the trade
mark violates section 28(1) of the Act. The order of the learned Single Judge
has led to anamolous results. While the appellants who are the proprietors of
the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' can stop others from using the trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' they cannot use the same themselves. According to section 28(3) of
the Act, two registered proprietors.of the same trade mark cannot restrain one
another from using the trade mark.., Therefore even if the first respondent
was the registered proprietor of the said trade mark it could not have
maintained an action for restraining the appellants from using the trade mark.
The lack of registration of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in favor of the first
respondent could not have conferred a higher right than it would have with a
registration in its favor. The washing machines manufactured by appellant
under trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' is not being associated with the goods of the
respondent but are being identified as the goods of the appellants. The
respondents have not sold adequate number of machines in India under the trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' so as to have acquired any reputation or goodwill in respect
of the said trade mark. The respondents were also not entitled to any relief
by way of an ad interim injunction in view of delay, acquiescence and laches
on their part.
(8) On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the
' trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' is being used by the first respondent from the year
1941. The first respondent has acquired world wide reputation and goodwill in
respect of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL'. Washing machines sold under the trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' are being associated by the general public as the goods of
the first respondent. The appellants want to reap the benefit of the
reputation and goodwill acquired by the first respondent by using the trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' on their product. The adoption of the mark by the appellants
is not honest and bonafide. The learned Single Judge having passed the ad
interim order after properly considering the rival claims of both the parlies,
the discretion exercised by him cannot be challenged by asking the appellate
Court to reassess the material and reach a conclusion defendant from the one
reached by him. The discretion has been exercised by the learned Single Judge
reasonably and in a judicial manner. As regards the question of delay,
acquiscence and laches, the learned Single Judge correctly came to the
conclusion that there was no substance in the submission of the learned
counsel for the appellants.
(9) We will first deal with the main questions which arise for our prima facie
determination. They are:-
1)Whether the reputation of trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' inspect of washing machines
of the respondent has travel trans border in India?
2)Whether the respondents, who are not the registered proprietors of trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of washing machines, can maintain an action for
passing off against the appellants in respect of the use of the same which has
been registered in their favor in respect of the same goods?
(10) With regard to these questions, the learned Single Judge held that the
first respondent was the prior user of trade mark in the market, the question
of geographical reasons apart.
(11) On material before him, the learned single Judge also came to the
conclusion that the first respondent positively made out a case of actual
sales by it of 'WHIRLPOOL' products including washing machines in a number of
geographical regions around the world. But in so far as India is concerned, it
does not make out a case of actual sales in the markets in India, though it
has made limited sales to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid office, New Delhi. The
learned Single Judge however, found (hat the first respondent had advertised
its products under the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' including washing machines in
the following International Magazines having circulation in India:- Magazine
Issue National Geographic August 1980, February 1983, May 1985, April 1986 and
July 1986 Life June 28, 1968. July 18, 1969, . August 1983, September 1983 &
May 1985 Fortune June 1957 Redbook July 1986. Ladies Home Journal January
1985, March 1986, April 1986 & July 1986 Woman's Day July 7,1987 House
Beautiful August 1985. Better Home & Garden July 1984, April 1986, June 986
and July 1986 Good House keeping October 1983 & April 1985 Family Circle
October 21,1986 Bon Appetite November 1983 (12) The learned Single Judge was
further of the opinion that the respondent has acquired trans border
reputation in respect of its products including the washing machines hearing
the trade name 'WHIRLPOOL' and that reputation has also reached this country.
(13) The learned counsel for the appellants assailed the findings of the
learned Single Judge in the ground that the first respondent has not made out
any case of actual sale of i's product bearing trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in India
and without actual commercial use of the same it cannot be said to have
acquired reputation and good will In this view of the matter, it is urged that
the goods of the appellants under the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' will not cause
any confusion or deception as the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' is not associated in
the minds of the public with the goods of the first respondent.
(14) We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the
appellants, but we have not been able to persuade ourselves to accept the
same.
(15) The knowledge and awareness of a trade mark in respect of the goods of a
trader is not necessarily restricted only to the people of the country where
such goods arc freely available but the knowledge & awareness of the same
reaches even the shores of those countries where the goods have not been
marketed. When a product is launched and hits the market in one country, the
cognizance of the same is also taken by the people in other countries almost
at the same time by getting acquainted with it through advertisements in
newspapers, magazines, television. video films. cinema etc. even though there
may not be availability of the product in those countries because of import
restrictions or other factors. In today's world it cannot he said that a
product and the trade mark under which it is sold abroad, does not have a
reputation or goodwill in countries where it is not available. The knowledge
and awareness of it and its critical evaluation & appraisal travels beyond the
confines of the geographical area in which it is sold. This has been made
possible by development of communication systems which transmit & disseminate
the information as soon as it is sent or beamed from one place to another.
Satellite Television is a major contributor of the information explosion.
Dissemination of knowledge of a trade mark in respect of a product through
advertisement in media amounts to use. of the trade mark whether or nol the
advertisement is coupled with the actual existence of the product in the
market.
(16) In M/s J.N.Nichols(Vimto) Limited vs.Rose and Thistle & another 1994 Ptc
83 (para 20), a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court observed that the
use of a trade mark docs not necessarily imply actual sale of the goods
bearing such a mark. Use can be in any form. Mere advertisement without having
even the physical existence of the goods in the market can be said to he a use
of the mark. In Consolidated Foods Corporation vs. Brandon & Co. Private Ltd.
it was found . that the petitioner was the proprietor of the trade mark
'Monarch' in respect of its food products in several countries of the world
and its products were advertised in American Magazines which had large
circulation in several 'countries including this country. Though the goods of
the petitioner had not been imported continuously, the petitioner's right to
use the trade mark 'Monarch' in this country in preference to the adoption of
the mark by the respondent's was recognised on the strength of the
advertisement. Accordingly, the order of the Joint Registrar of Trade Marks
granting registration of the mark in favor of the latter was set aside by the
Bombay High Court, and while doing so it held as under:- ".......NOT.only that
the petitioner corporation's products are widely advertised in American
Magazines of common interest, which have a fairly large circulation in this
country, hut even these products have been imported into this country though
not quite continuously. There can, therefore, be no doubt that the petitioner
corporation has a right to the use of the mark 'Monarch' in preference to the
respondent company which sought to introduce that mark for the first lime in
1951."
(17) At another place it was observed, is follows:- "........INthis case,
however, as I have found that the petitioner corporation was already the sole
proprietor of the mark 'Monarch' in respect of its food products in several
countries of the world and its products were widely advertised in various
American Magazines having a large circulation in different parts of the world
including this country and in view of the fact that the petitioner corporation
could have without importing any of its food products into this country
hearing that mark applied for registration of that mark as proprietor thereof,
prior to 1951 before the respondent company started using that mark, it is
difficult to hold that the respondent company had started using that mark
quite innocently and without any knowledge on its part about the same being
widely used by the petitioner corporation on its food products. On the facts
of this case and also in the interest of business morality, it is impossible
to exercise my discretion under sub-section (3) of Section 12 of the Act and
order concurrent registration of the mark 'Monarch' in favor both of the
petitioner corporation and the respondent company."
(18) Similarly the High Court of Australia in the The Seven Up Company vs.
O.T. Limited and another (1047) 75 Clr 203 held as follows: "........IN my
opinion the effect of these cases is that in the absence of fraud it is not
unlawful for a trader to become the registered proprietor under the Trade
Marks Act of a mark which has been used, however extensively, by another
trader as a mark for similar goods in a foreign country, provided the foreign
mark has not been used at all in Australia at the date of the application for
registration. But the position is different if at that dale the mark has
become identified with the goods of the foreign trader in Australia because
those goods have been brought into Australia by the foreign trader' himself or
by some importer or in some other manner. The court frowns upon any attempt by
one trader to appropriate the mark of another trader although that trader is a
foreign trader and the mark has only been used hy him in a foreign country. It
therefore .seizes upon a very small amount of use of the foreign mark in
Australia to hold that it has become identified with and distinctive of the
goods of the foreign trader in Australis. It is not then a mark which another
leader is entitled to apply to register under the the Trade Marks Act because
it is not his properly hut the properly of the foreign trader. The registrar
is entitled to refuse to register the mark for such goods. If it has been
registered the court may rectify the register on the' ground that the mark is
wrongly entered on the register. Further, if at the date of the application
for registration, the mark of the foreign trader, although it has not been
used in Australia,, has neverthless become associated in the minds of the
Australian public with his goods because it has been advertised in
publications which have circulated extensively in Australia or in some other
manner, the registrar is entitled to refuse to register the mark for such
goods because il is likely to deceive. If it has been registered the court may
rectify the register on the ground that the mark is wrongly entered on the
register.
(19) THUS. advertisement of a trade mark of a foreign trader in respect of a
product need not he associated with the actual use of the product in order to
establish reputation (20) In Pioneer Hy-Bred Com Co. vs. Hy-line Chicks Pty.
Ltd. 1979 Rpc 410, the appellant, an Australian company had applied on August
1963 for registration of the mark "HY-LINE" in New Zealand in respect of live
chicken and poultry. Similar trademark in respect of same items had been
registered in the United States in the year 1941 in favor of the respondent,
an American company. Till August 1963, no sales of poultry had been made
either by the Australian company or by the American company in New Zealand
because of import restrictions. The Assistant Commissioner of Trade Marks
accepted the application of the Australian company for registration of the
said. trade mark. Thereupon the American company appealed to the Supreme Court
of New Zealand, which reversed the decision of the Assistant Commissioner.
Against the decision of the Supreme Court, the Australian company appealed to
the High Court of New Zealand. The High Court while upholding the decision of
the Supreme Court laid down the test to be applied while deciding whether use
in New Zealand of the appellant's trade mark was likely to deceive or cause
confusion when the use of the American trade mark in New Zealand was not
established,-but only the awareness through advertisement thereof in the
concerned New Zealand market of that mark was proved. In this connection it
was held as follows:- "........IT is the awareness or cognizance of those who
are potential buyers in, or otherwise associated with the relevant New Zealand
market that is material. If there is a likelihood that they will be deceived
or confused as to the origin of goods covered by the applicant's mark, it
matters not how they gained the knowledge that gives rise to that deception or
confusion." ".........But in my view it is-a fair inference from the evidence
that many New Zealand poultry men with an interest in improving breeding
stocks in New Zealand read overseas magazines to expand their knowledge and
that New Zealand poultry men sufficiently interested to subscribe for overseas
periodicals had an interest in reading about overseas developments in breeding
stock. Not all readers would have read all advertisements in all issues.
Having regard to the evidence that the poultry men specifically referred to
associated the trade mark HY-LINE with HY-LINE Poultry Farms from reading
literature on poultry matters, I think it probable, as did Cooke, J., that
many of the other New Zealand subscribers to the journals would have read many
of the advertisements in those trade magazines."
(21) This Court in Apple Computer Inc. vs. Apple Leasing & Industries 1992 (1)
Arbitration Law Reporter 93 at 137 while dealing with the question of overseas
reputation of a trade mark in respect of a product held as follows:-
"...........INother words, it is not necessary in the context of the present
day circumstances, the free exchange of information and advertising through
newspapers, magazines, video, television, movies, freedom of travel between
various parts of the world, to insist that a particular plaintiff must carry
on business in a jurisdiction before improper use of its name or mark can be
restrained by the court. Similarly, I am also in agreement with the view
expressed regarding the meaning of goodwill in passing-off cases. In passing-
off cases, the main consideration is the likelihood of confusion and
consequential injury to the plaintiff, and the need to protect the public from
deception, deliberate or otherwise. Where such confusion or deception is prima
facie shown to exist, protection should be given by courts to the name or mark
or goodwill of the plaintiff. The reason why all traders and manufacturers of
goods, and providers of services, wish to protect their name and build up
their name is that they want their name or market to have an impact upon
anyone who has need of their goods or services. That impact may take diverse
forms, but one of them would certainly be that a name or mark would recall to
the mind of a potential consumer or user of such services, the source from
where the goods originate, or the person who provides the services. This is
the impact of advertising and publicity by whatever means including word of
mouth, and the build-up of reputation. It would not be right for courts to
permit the persons who have spent considerable time, effort, money and energy
in building up a name sufficient to have an impact to lose control over such
an impact by improper use of the very same or colourably similar name by
another unauthorisedly or even dishonestly."
(22) To the similar effect is the decision of the Bombay High Court in Kamal
Trading Co., Bombay and others vs. Gillette U.K.. Limited, Middle Sex, England
1988 Ptc I wherein it was laid down as follows:- ".........IT is necessary to
note that the goodwill is not limited to a particular country because in the
present days, the trade is spread all over the world and the goods are
transported from one country to another very rapidly and on extensive scale.
The goodwill acquired by the manufacturer is not necessarily limited to the
country where the goods are freely available because the goods though not
available are widely advertised in newspapers, periodicals, magazines and
inother medias. The result is that though the goods are not available in the
country, the goods and the mark under which they are sold acquires wide
reputation. Take for example, the televisions, and Video Cassette Recorders
manufactured by National, Sony or other wellknown Japanese Concerns. These
televisions and V.C.Rs. are not imported in India and sold in open market,
because of trade restrictions, but is it possible even to suggest that the
word 'National' or 'Sony has not acquired reputation in this country In our
judgment, the goodwill or reputation of goods or marks does not depend upon
its availability in a particular country."
(23) Extra territorial reputation of a mark was also recognised in the matter
of Vitamins LD'S Application for Trade Mark, 1956 R.P.C. 1. In that case the
respondent applied for registration of mark "Pabalate" in respect of
pharmaceutical substance. This was opposed by the appellant, an American
Corporation, on the ground that the said mark st:)od registered in their favor
in various countries and the same was advertised extensively in Medical
Journals, which had circulation in the United Kingdom as well. The American
Company however, did not have any user of the trade mark in United Kingdom as
no sale of the goods had been made under the said mark by them in that country
. Despite the lack of user in England it was held that the application of the
respondent should not be permitted to proceed having regard to the fact that
the advertisements of pharmaceutical substances were reaching in that country
In this regard it was observed as follows:- "......HAVINGregard to the lad
that the evidence discloses a genuine business on the pan of the Appellants in
their country of origin, and that advertisements of such are Teaching this
country and appearing in libraries or places of reference to which medical men
may resort, it seems to me that I am bound to consider the possibility that,
with the passage of 'time, some conflict may occur between the use of the mark
by the present Respondents and the advertisement and user of the mark overseas
by the present Appellants. Having regard to the international character which
medicine and the allied sciences have assumed and increasingly assumed over
the last two decades, it seems to me that the Court must he particularly
careful to see that in exercising its discretion under the Act the public
interest is not in any way imperilled. For my part I am not satisfied that, in
allowing to he used by manufacturers in this country as a brand name for a
pharmaceutical substance a word which is in fad used by an American
Corporation in respect of the same material and advertised in journals, which
on the evidence are received into this country and referred to, the public
interest will he best served .by permitting registration. Accordingly, on both
those grounds it seems to me that it is my duly to indicate that in the light
ol' the fuller consideration which the mailer has received in this Court the
application should not be permitted to proceed."
(24) At this stage we may refer to the animated cinema characters "Mickey
Mouse" and "Minni Mouse" invented by Walter E. Disney which have become
extremely popular. They are known world over. The popularity is acquired
mostly through Motion Pictures .which-have great impact on the audience. It
was because of this popularity that registration of marks 'Mickey Mouse' and
'Minni Mouse' in rasped of radio receiving sets manufactured by a trader,
namely, Radio Corporation Propriety Limited were refused to be registered by
the Registrar of Trade Marks even though no registration had been obtained in
Australia by the inventor and creator of animated cinema characters in respect
of the words 'Mickey Mouse' and ''Minni Mouse' as trade marks. But in Great
Britain and other countries the words were registered as trade marks for
Motion Pictures. This decision of the Registrar of Trade Marks was upheld by
the High Court of Australia in Radio Corporation Proprietary. Ltd. vs. Disney
and others. 1937 Clr 448, on the ground that the words were so closely
associated . with the respondent/opponent, that their use by the
appellant/applicant was calculated to deceive and cause confusion in trade and
public mind.The names 'Mickey Mouse' &. 'Minni Mouse' were held to he
associated or transfixed in the public mind with the respondent. The world
wide fame and popularity of the names 'Mickey Mouse' and 'Minni Mouse' is due
to the tremendous impact that films have on the minds of the public.
Television has a similar effect on the viewers and so have the advertisements
in magazines, periodicals, newspapers etc. having world wide publication.
Today advertisements in respect of goods and the trade marks under which they
are marketed in one country are taken cognizance of in other countries.
Business reputation is gained by the companies even in colonelcies where their
product is not used and is merely known through'advertisements.
(25) Thus a product und its trade name transcends the physical boundaries of a
geographical region and acquires a trans border or overseas or
extraterritorial reputation not only though import of goods but also by its
advertisement. The knowledge and the awareness of the goods of a foreign trade
& its trade mark can be available at a place where goods are not being
marketed and consequently not being used. The manner in which or the source
from which the knowledge has been acquired is immaterial (26) The objection of
the appellants based non user of the product of the first respondent under the
trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in India therefore, does not appeal to us. Besides, it
is not a case where the goods of the first respondent have not been imported
in this country. The respondents have asserted that the goods under the
trademark 'WHIRLPOOL' were imported in India by the American Embassy & U.S Aid
office New Delhi.
(27) Affidavit of Lawrence John Kremer dated December 5, 1990, Filed by way of
evidence in respect of the opposition of the first respondent to the
application of the appellants for registration of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL',
slates that the mark WHIRLPOOL' was adopted and used by allied first
respondent in various'eouniries of ' the world since July 1941. It has also
been staled in the afl'idavit that: (1) 'the trade inark''WHIRLPOOL' was
registered in favor of the First respondent in several countries & {2) the
said trade mark is being used hy them in more than 65 countries of the World.
'The affidavit gives the following details of the sale of ils goods under
trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' in the various countries of the world excluding the
United Stales of America.
Year Sales in U.S. Dollars 1987 33,231.905 1988 32,915,220 1989 115,473.010
(28) From the aforesaid fads including the extensive advertisements of the
goods of the First respondent & its Trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' and the legal
position ad interim hitherto we are prima facie of the opinion that the trade
mark 'WHIRLPOOL' has acquired reputation and goodwill in this country and the
same has become associated in the minds of the public or potential buyers with
the goods of the first respondent. Even advertisement of trade mark without
existence of goods in the market is also to be considered as use of the trade
mark. It is also not necessary however that the association of plaintiffs mark
with his goods should be known all over the country or to every person in the
area where it is known best.(See: Fanlder& Co, Ld.vs. O & G. Rushton(1903) 20
Rpc 477) Besides the facts prima facie demonstrable that the first respondent
was prior user of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' as it was using the same since
1941, while the appellants themselves claim the adoption thereof from 1986.
(29) THUS. we see no reason to differ with the finding of the learned Single
Judge that the First respondent acquired trans border reputation in respect of
the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' and has a right to prefect the invasion thereof.
(30) We now proceed to consider the question as to whether the respondents can
maintain an action for passing off against' the appellants who are the
registered proprietors of the trade mark "WHIRLPOOL" in India. Learned counsel
for the appellants submitted that the appellants have an exclusive right to
use the trade mark "WHIRLPOOL" under section 28(1) of the Act as they arc the
registered proprietors of the same.In order to appreciate the submission of
the learned counsel, it will be necessary to set out section 28(1) of the Act.
This section reads as under:- "28(1)Subject to the other provisions of this
Act, the registration of a trade mark in Part A or Part B of the register
shall, if valid, give to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the
exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in
respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect
of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by this Act.
(31) According to section 28(1) of the Act, registration of a trade mark gives
to the registered proprietor thereof exclusive right to use the same in.
relation to the goods in respect of which it has been registered. But from the
opening words of section 28(1) namely, "subject to other provisions" it is
clear that the right conferred on a trader is not an indefeasible right as the
same is expressly made subject to other provisions of the Act. This is
further, made clear by section 27(2) of the Act, which' provides that "
nothing in this Act shall he deemed to affect the right of action against any
person for passing off the goods as goods of another person or the remedies in
respect thereof." Thus it is manifest that Section 28 of the Act and all other
provisions come within the '" 'over riding sway of section 27(2) of the Act.
Similarly section 33 of the Act also saves vested rights of a prior user. It
lays down that nothing in the Act shall entitle a registered proprietor of a
trade mark to interfere with the use of the trade mark by a prior user of the
same. Thus the right created by section 28(1) of the Act in favor of a
registered proprietor of a trade mark is not an absolute right and is
subservient to other provisions of the Act namely sections 27(2), 33 etc.
Neither section 28 nor any other provision of the Act bars an action for
passing off by. an anterior user of a trade mark against a registered user of
the same.- In other words registration of a trade mark does not provide a
defense to the proceedings for passing off as under section 27(2) of the Act a
prior user of a trade mark can maintain an action for passing off against any
subsequent user of an identical trade mark including a registered user
thereof. Again this right is not affected by section 31 of the Act, under
which the only presumption that follows from registration of a mark is its
prima facie evidentiary value about its validity and nothing more. This
presumption is not an unrepeatable one & can be displaced. Besides section 31
is not immune to the over-riding effect of section 27(2). Placing reliance on
section 28(3) of the Act the I warned counsel for the appellant contended that
when two registered proprietors of identical or near similar trade marks
cannot be deemed to have acquired exclusive right to the use of any of those
trade marks against each other, how can an unregistered user of the trade mark
maintain an action for passing off against a registered user of the same mark
and seek an injunction restraining him from using it. This argument of the
learned counsel seems to stem from a misconception about the real purpose and
intent of section 28(3). Actually section 28(3) protects registered proprietor
of a trade mark from an infringement action by another registered proprietor
of an identical or near similar trade mark. In this regard it will also bo
necessary to extract Section 28(3) and section 3()(1)(d) which carries of the
intent of section 28(3). These sections read as under:- "28(3) Where two or
more persons are registered proprietors of trade marks, which are identical
with or nearly resemble each other, the exclusive right to the use of any of
those trade marks shall not (except so far as their respective rights are
subject to any conditions or limitations entered on the register) be deemed to
have been acquired by any one of those persons as against any other of those
persons medley by registration of the trade, marks but each of those persons
has otherwise the same rights as against other persons (not. being registered
users using by way of permitted use) as he would have if he were the sole
registered proprietor. 30(l)(d) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
'Act, the following acts do not constitute an infringement or the 'right to
the use of a registered trademark- .........the use of a registered trade
mark, being, one of two or more trade marks registered under this Act which
are identical or nearly resemble each other, in exercise of the right to the
use of that trade mark given by registration under this Act." ' (32) A reading
of section 28(3) with section 30(l)(d) shows that the proprietor of a
registered trade mark cannot file an infringement action against a proprietor
of an identical or a similar trade mark. While sections 28(3) and 30(l)(d) on
the one hand deal with the rights of registered proprietors of identical trade
marks and bar action of infringement against each other, section 27(2) or the
other hand deals with the passing off action. The rights of action under
section 27(2) are not affected by section 28(3) and section 30(l)(d).
Therefore, registration of a trade mark under the Act would be irrelevant in
an action for passing off. Registration of a trade mark in fact docs not
confer any new right on the proprietor thereof than what already existed at
common law without registration of the mark. The right of goodwill &
reputation in a trade mark was recognised at common law even before it was
subject of statutory law. Prior to codification of trade mark law there was no
provision in India for registration of a trade mark. The right in a trade mark
was acquired only by use thereof.This right has not been affected by the Act
and is preserved and recognised by sections 27(2) and 33.
(33) The law of 'passing off as it has developed, permits an .action against a
registered proprietor of a trade mark for its mendacious use for inducing and
misleading the consumers into thinking that his goods are the goods.of or are
connected with the goods of a prior user of the trade mark. It seems to us
that in so far as this Court is 'concerned, this position cannot be disputed
in view of thc judgment of the Division Bench in Century Traders vs. Roshan
Lal Duggar & Co. 1978, Delhi 250 where, while construing sections 27(2) and
106 of the Act, it was held as follows:- "FROM a reading of tòhe above
sections it is clear that registration of mark.in the trade mark registry
would be irrelevant in an action for passing off. Thus, the law is pretty well
settled tt in order to succeed at this stage the appellant had to establish
user of the aforesaid mark prior in point of lime than the impugned user by
the respondents. The registration of the said mark or similar mark prior in
point of lime to user by the appellant is irrelevant in an action for passing
off and the mere' presence of the mark in the register maintained by the trade
mark registry did not prove its user by the persons in whose names the mark
was registered and was irrelevant for the purposes of deciding the application
for interim injunction unless evidence had been led or was available of user
of the registered trade marks. In our opinion, these clear rules of law were
not kept in view by the learned single Judge and led him to, commit an error."
(34) Again in Consolidated Foods Corporation vs. Brandon & Co., similar view
finds expression. In this regard it was held as follows:- "....,...To
summarise, therefore, a trader acquires a right of property in-a distinctive
mark merel' by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of
the length of such user and the extent of his trade. The trader who adopts
such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a
vendible character is launched upon the market. As between two competitors who
are each desirous of adopting such a mark, "it is, to use familiar language,
entirely a question of who gets there first." (Gaw Kan Lye v. Saw Kyone Saing,
Air 1939 Rang 343 (FB).. Registration under the statute does not confer any
new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed
at common law and at equity without registration. It does however, facilitate
a remedy which may he enforced and obtained thorough out the Stale and it
established the record of facts a fleeting the right to the mark. Registration
itself does not create a trade mark. The trade mark exists independently of
the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
Common law rights are left wholly unaffected. Priority in adoption and use of
a trade mark is superior to priority in registration."
(35) Again in M/s .L.D. Malhotra vs. Ropi Industries, a learned single Bench
of this Court restated & adopted the principles noticed in Consolidated foods
Corporation case (supra). It also referred to the decision of the House of
Lords in Gec vs.GE Co. Ltd. 1972 Ah E.R. 517. Drawing upon the aforesaid
decisions, it was observed as follows:- . "........Now at common law the use
of the mark was the only way in which trade mark rights in it could he
acquired: Kerly's Trade Mark 10th edition page 245. It is difficult to
understand the statutory law relating to trade marks without understanding the
state of the common law as it existed before the law was codified. In a recent
decision of the House of Lords in Gec v. The Ge Co. Ltd. (1972) 2 All E.R.
507(2) Lord Diplock said: "The right of property in a trade mark was
recognised at common law before it was the subject of any enactment. The 1875
Act did not itself create any right of properly in trade marks. As its title
itself indicates and its provision confirm, it simply provided for the
registration of trade marks arid spelled out the consequences of registration
and non-registration on the proprietory rights of the owner of the trade mark
and the remedies available to him for the protection of those proprietary
rights. "The 1875 Act must, therefore, be construed in the light of the common
law relating to trade marks in 1875. I use the expression 'common law' to
include the doctrines of equity applied in what at I hat time was the separate
Court of Chancery. My Lords, it may well be a legitimate criticism of our
methods of drafting legislation that in order to ascertain the meaning of an
Act of Parliament passed in 1938, it should be necessary not only to consider
the legislative history over the previous 63 years but also to engage in what
in other systems of law might be regarded a antiquarian research, namely, the
state of the common law as it existed before the first Act to alter it was
passed nearly 1(X) years ago. But, in my view, the 1938 Act which purports to
consolidate our existing law becomes intelligible only when this course, which
is a well recognised aid to statutory construction, is adopted."
    (36) As regards the common law of trade marks before the first Act of 1875 he said:    "THE right of property in a trade mark had special characteristics. One, which it shared with patents and with copyright, was that it was a monopoly, that is to say, it was a right to restrain other persons from using the mark. Bill it was an adjunct of the goodwill of a business and incapable of separate existence dissociated from that "goodwill. To be capable of being the subject-mailer of properly a trade mark had to be distinctive, that is to say, it had to be recognisable by a purchaser of goods to which it was affixed as indicating that they were of the same origin as other goods which bore the same mark and whose quality had engendered goodwill. Properly in a trade mark could therefore only be acquired by public use of it as such by the proprietor and was lost by disuse."   
    (37) At another place the judgment in L.D. Malhotra's case(supra) holds that Section 33 of the Act saves vested rights of a prior user of a trade mark. In this regard, it was observed as follows:-    "......THISsection saves vested rights. This means that the anterior use by a person of a trade mark is protected under law. This was the position at common law. The common law rule was that a mark did not become a 'trade mark' until it had been publicly used as such by its proprietor and that such public use was the only means by which title to a trade mark could be acquired by the first proprietor of it (See Gec 2 case (supra) ). The 1958 Act recognised this principle of common law and embodied in S.33."  
    (38) Both the decisions in L.D. Malhotra and others vs,. Ropi Industries and Consolidated Food Corporation vs. Brandon & Co. (supra) were noticed and relied upon in Century Traders vs. Roshan Lal Duggar by the Division Bench of this Court.  
(39) Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that since a registered
proprietor of a trade mark has an exclusive right to the use thereof under
section 28(1) of the Act, even a prior user of the said trade mark cannot be
permitted to bring an action for 'passing off against the former & the only
remedy of the latter is to move for cancellation of registration under section
56 of the Act. In this regard he relied upon certain decisions including
single Bench decisions of this Court namely, M/s.Anil Food Industries vs. M/s
Alka Food Industries, 1989 Ptc 129 M/s.P.L.J. & Co. vs. M/s Promilla
Industries, 1991 Ptc 233 and P.M.Diesels Pvt. Ltd. vs. Thukral Mechanical
Works,.. 1/R 1988 Delhi 282. But the decision of the Division Bench of this
Court in Century Traders vs.Roshan Lal Duggar holds the field for this Court
insofar as the Question of maintaining passing off action against a registered
proprietor of a trade mark is concerned. Learned counsel did not cite any
decision of a Division Bench or. larger bench of this court taking a view
contrary to the one taken in Century Traders.
(40) In M/s Anil Food Industries vs. M/s Alka Food Industries (supra) the
trade mark "Anil" was registered in favor of both the plaintiff and the
defendant in respect of Union Territory of Delhi. Noting this fact, the
learned Single Judge held that the question of the defendant being injuncted
from using the mark "Anil" in respect of the Union Territory of Delhi did not
arise. The matter was not considered from the point of view of section 27(2)
of the Act. In M/s.P.L.J. & Co. vs. M/s.Promilla Industries (supra) the
question whether in a suit for passing off an order of injunction can be
passed against the owner of a registered trade mark restraining him from using
the said mark, was not decided as it was felt that there was no necessity to
decide the same in view of the concession of the defendant that he shall not
sell its product in cartons similar to the ones used by the defendant. In
P.M.Diesels Pvt. Ltd. vs. Thukral 'Mechanical Works (supra) both plaintiff and
the defendant were admitted owners of the trade mark 'Field Marshal'. While
the plaintiff was the registered proprietor of trade mark 'Field Marshal' in
respect of diesel oil engines or parts thereof, the defendants were the
registered proprietors of the trade mark 'Field Marshal' in respect of
centrifugal pumps etc. The learned single Judge held that the proprietary
rights of both the plaintiff and defendants in respect of their marks were
protected under section 28(3) of the Act and neither of them could be
restrained from using its mark. A perusal of the judgment shows that the
provisions of section 27(2) of the Act were neither considered nor noticed.
Besides this was a case which arose under the provisions of section 28(3) of
the Act. Therefore, none of these decisions further the case of the
appellants.
(41) The concept and principle on which passing off action is grounded is that
a man is not to sell his own goods under the pretence that they are the goods
of another man. A trader needs protection of his right of prior user of a
trade mark as the benefit of the name and reputation earned by him cannot be
taken advantage of by another trader by copying the mark and getting it
registered before he could get the same registered in his favor. We see no
reason why a registered owner of a trade mark should be allowed to deceive
purchasers into the belief that they are getting the goods of another while
they would be buying the goods of the former which they never intended to do.
In an action for passing off it should not matter whether misrepresentation or
deception has proceeded from a. registered or an unregistered user of a trade
mark. He cannot represent his own goods as the goods of some body else. 42. In
Delco Engineering Works vs. General Motors Corporation Ilr 1974 Punjab &
Haryana series 502 it has been held that an action for passing off is founded
on the desirability of preventing commercial immorality or dishonesty by a
trader who by using a particular mark, whether registered or unregistered
wants to falsely represent that his goods are the goods of some one else so
that he can take undue and unfair advantage of the reputation of the other
person in the mark. Therefore, it cannot be stated that under section 28 of
the Act the statutory right of use acquired by a trader by registration of a
mark is a defense to proceedings for passing off initiated by a prior user of
the mark. In our opinion the learned Single Judge correctly analysed the
decision of the Division Bench in Century Traders vs. Roshan Lal Duggar and we
record our respectful approval thereto by holding that there is no statutory
bar to a prior user of a trade mark for bringing an action for 'passing off
against a registered proprietor thereof. It is also wholly immaterial in an
action for passing off that the opposition of the plaintiff to the
registration of the mark in favor of the defendant was not accepted. In an
action for passing off, it is no defense that the defendant's trade mark is
registered and that of the prior user is not so registered.
(43) Having regard to the above discussion,the following position emerges. The
Courts do not approve of any attempt by one trader to appropriate the mark of
another trader,even though that trader may be a foreign trader and mostly uses
his mark in respect of the goods available abroad i.e. out side the country
where the appropriation of the mark has taken place. As mentioned earlier
awareness & knowledge of the mark in the latter country may be because of
small trickle of goods in that country or through advertisement. The manner
and method by which the knowledge of the mark is acquired by the public is of
no consequence & will not matter. Applying this principle & the reasons
already stated we have prima facie come to the conclusion that the appellants
have acquired reputation & goodwill in respect of its goods bearing trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' in this country. Even though the appellants have no connection
with the respondents, they are using the mark 'WHIRLPOOL' for their products.
Prima facie it appears to us that buyers are likely to be deceived or confused
as to the origin and source of the goods. They will believe that the product
is manufactured by the respondents, an impression not founded in truth. The
imitation will pass off as genuine. No one can be permitted to trade by
deceiving or misleading the purchasers or to unauthorisedly divert to itself
the reputation and goodwill of others. Under section 27(2) an action for
passing off against registered user of trade mark is maintainable at the
instance of a prior user of the same, similar or identical mark. Since such a
remedy is available against the registered user of a trade mark, an interim
injunction restraining him to use the mark can also be granted to make the
remedy effective.
(44) We also do not agree with the submission of learned counsel for the
appellants that the respondents are guilty of culpable delay, acquiescence and
laches which disentitle the respondents from claiming the relief of
injunction. It may be noted that the respondents tiled their opposition to the
application of the appellants for registration of the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL'
which was decided on August 12, 1992. Thereafter the respondents also filed an
appeal before this Court which is still pending. On August 4, 1994 the present
suit was filed against the appellants. Right from the time te respondents came
to know about the application for registration of trade mark by the
appellants, the former has been contesting the same. It is also not the case
of the appellants that they have sold large number of washing mach as over a
long period of time. There is no question therefore of any prejudice being
caused to the appellants by filing of the suit in the year 1994 by the
respondents. If they have not done any appreciable business, they cannot be
said to have been adversely effected by the filing of the suit in the year
1994. Delay, if any, without being coupled with prejudice caused to the
appellants cannot be a good defense by itself. defense of laches or delay can
be set up in equity but it cannot be put forth by some one who has not acted
fairly and honestly and has used the trade mark of another person. There is no
plausible & convincing explanation by the appellants as to how they came to
adopt the mark 'WHIRLPOOL'. In. absence of any satisfactory explanation by the
appellants, the adoption of the mark by them cannot prima facie he regarded as
honest and plea of delay & laches would be of no avail to them. As regards
acquiescence, there is nothing to show that there has been a tacit or express
assent by the respondents to the appellant's using the mark. As regards the
submission of learned counsel for the appellants that the respondents had
abandoned the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' and therefore, they cannot maintain the
action of passing off, is not well founded. As already seen, the respondents
had been using the trade mark 'WHIRLPOOL' world wide and there is no reason to
assume that the same was abandoned. Mere fact that the registration was not
renewed by them in India after 1977, is no ground to hold that the respondents
had abandoned the trade mark.
(45) Lastly learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of the
Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks was binding on the principle of issue
estoppel. It has been rightly pointed out by the learned single Judge that the
registration of the mark was of no consequence in a passing off action.
(46) Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decision of the Chancery
Division in Crown Estate Commissioner vs. Dorset County Council 1991 All E.R.
19, where the question was whether the decision of the Chief Commons
Commissioner that certain road verges were not registrable under the Commons
Registration Act, 1965 as the same formed part of a highway could be
reagitated in proceedings unconnected with the proceedings in which these road
verges were excluded from the register of common land. Following the decision
of the Commissioner, defendants ceased to make any payments to the plaintiffs
in their use of the verges. The plaintiffs brought proceedings for trespass
with a view to relit gated the same question, namely, whether the road verges
are part of the highway, which the Chief Commons Commissioner decided against
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
(47) Having regard to the above discussion, we see no reason to interfere with
the discretionary order passed by the learned Single Judge dated October 31,
1994 granting the restraint order. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed but
without any order as to costs
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
against the appellants for permanent injunction, passing off and damages.
(3) According to the plaint the first respondent is engaged in the
manufacture, sale, distribution and servicing of washing machines under the
trade mark WHIRLPOOL. It has, directly or through vs subsidiaries, more than
2000 trade mark registrations all over the world. In India its trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' was registered on February 22, 1956 in respect of clothes dryers,
washers, dishwashers, vacuum. cleaners, air- conditioners, dehumidifers,
freezers etc. in Classes 7,9 and 11. The registralions were renewed up to the
year 1977 hut despite instructions of the first respondent for renewal of
registration in Class 7 and 9, the registrations lapsed due to lack of proper
communication with its counsel. Notwithstanding the lapsed registration, the
trade mark of the first respondent was used in this country through sale of
its washing machines to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid offices in New Delhi and
also through advertisements in various publications having a circulation in
India. Besides the products of the first respondent were reaching the Indian
consumers in a second hand State or through indirect channels. Plaint also
refers to the recent liberal economic policy as a result whereof, in the year
1987, it established a .joint venture known as Tvs Whirlpool Ltd.' The
respondents thereafter filed 9 applications for registration of trade mark
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
against the appellants for permanent injunction, passing off and damages.
(3) According to the plaint the first respondent is engaged in the
manufacture, sale, distribution and servicing of washing machines under the
trade mark WHIRLPOOL. It has, directly or through vs subsidiaries, more than
2000 trade mark registrations all over the world. In India its trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' was registered on February 22, 1956 in respect of clothes dryers,
washers, dishwashers, vacuum. cleaners, air- conditioners, dehumidifers,
freezers etc. in Classes 7,9 and 11. The registralions were renewed up to the
year 1977 hut despite instructions of the first respondent for renewal of
registration in Class 7 and 9, the registrations lapsed due to lack of proper
communication with its counsel. Notwithstanding the lapsed registration, the
trade mark of the first respondent was used in this country through sale of
its washing machines to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid offices in New Delhi and
also through advertisements in various publications having a circulation in
India. Besides the products of the first respondent were reaching the Indian
consumers in a second hand State or through indirect channels. Plaint also
refers to the recent liberal economic policy as a result whereof, in the year
1987, it established a .joint venture known as Tvs Whirlpool Ltd.' The
respondents thereafter filed 9 applications for registration of trade mark
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
against the appellants for permanent injunction, passing off and damages.
(3) According to the plaint the first respondent is engaged in the
manufacture, sale, distribution and servicing of washing machines under the
trade mark WHIRLPOOL. It has, directly or through vs subsidiaries, more than
2000 trade mark registrations all over the world. In India its trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' was registered on February 22, 1956 in respect of clothes dryers,
washers, dishwashers, vacuum. cleaners, air- conditioners, dehumidifers,
freezers etc. in Classes 7,9 and 11. The registralions were renewed up to the
year 1977 hut despite instructions of the first respondent for renewal of
registration in Class 7 and 9, the registrations lapsed due to lack of proper
communication with its counsel. Notwithstanding the lapsed registration, the
trade mark of the first respondent was used in this country through sale of
its washing machines to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid offices in New Delhi and
also through advertisements in various publications having a circulation in
India. Besides the products of the first respondent were reaching the Indian
consumers in a second hand State or through indirect channels. Plaint also
refers to the recent liberal economic policy as a result whereof, in the year
1987, it established a .joint venture known as Tvs Whirlpool Ltd.' The
respondents thereafter filed 9 applications for registration of trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' in Classes 7,9 and 11 in respect of their goods including washing
machines which arc pending in the Trade Mark Registry (4) The plaint also
alludes to the fact that the trademark 'WHIRLPOOL' belonging to the first
respondent has, acquired global reputation. According to the issue of- July
25, 1994 of 'FORTUNE Global 500' rated the first respondent as the 207th
largest Corporation' in the world in terms of sales and the 30th largest
Global Corporation dealing in electronic and electrical equipments. It also
points out that its name is also included in the 1992 edition of the book
'World Class Business' - a Guide to the 100 Most Powerful Global
Corporations," by Phillip Mattero. It also claims that as a result of
extensive advertising and promotional efforts, its products including washing
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
Sundram Clayton. A suit was filed by the respondents on 4th August, 1994
against the appellants for permanent injunction, passing off and damages.
(3) According to the plaint the first respondent is engaged in the
manufacture, sale, distribution and servicing of washing machines under the
trade mark WHIRLPOOL. It has, directly or through vs subsidiaries, more than
2000 trade mark registrations all over the world. In India its trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' was registered on February 22, 1956 in respect of clothes dryers,
washers, dishwashers, vacuum. cleaners, air- conditioners, dehumidifers,
freezers etc. in Classes 7,9 and 11. The registralions were renewed up to the
year 1977 hut despite instructions of the first respondent for renewal of
registration in Class 7 and 9, the registrations lapsed due to lack of proper
communication with its counsel. Notwithstanding the lapsed registration, the
trade mark of the first respondent was used in this country through sale of
its washing machines to the U.S. Embassy and U.S. Aid offices in New Delhi and
also through advertisements in various publications having a circulation in
India. Besides the products of the first respondent were reaching the Indian
consumers in a second hand State or through indirect channels. Plaint also
refers to the recent liberal economic policy as a result whereof, in the year
1987, it established a .joint venture known as Tvs Whirlpool Ltd.' The
respondents thereafter filed 9 applications for registration of trade mark
'WHIRLPOOL' in Classes 7,9 and 11 in respect of their goods including washing
machines which arc pending in the Trade Mark Registry (4) The plaint also
alludes to the fact that the trademark 'WHIRLPOOL' belonging to the first
respondent has, acquired global reputation. According to the issue of- July
25, 1994 of 'FORTUNE Global 500' rated the first respondent as the 207th
largest Corporation' in the world in terms of sales and the 30th largest
Global Corporation dealing in electronic and electrical equipments. It also
points out that its name is also included in the 1992 edition of the book
'World Class Business' - a Guide to the 100 Most Powerful Global
Corporations," by Phillip Mattero. It also claims that as a result of
extensive advertising and promotional efforts, its products including washing
them. The Chancery Division of the High Court held that the Commissioner had a
statutory jurisdiction to decide whether or not the road verges should be
registered as common land and for that purpose it had to determine the
question whether or not the land formed part of the highway, which was again a
mailer in its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was held that the decision of the
Commissioner created an issue estoppel and the same issue was not capable of
being relit gated subsequently in the Court. The aforesaid principle is well
established but the same has no application in the present case as
registration of a mark as a consequence of the proceedings before the
authorities under Section 28 of the Act has been expressly made subject to the
other provisions thereof. As already noticed. section 27(2) of the Act itself
provides for an action for passing off and saves such a right notwithstanding
registration of the mark by the Trade Mark Registry. It seems to us that
Section 27(2) and 33 are conclusive on the question of maintainability of the
suit for passing off and the application of doctrine of issue estoppel in case
of this kind will not apply.
