Custom, Excise & Service Tax Tribunal
The Delhi Public School Society vs Cst, New Delhi on 19 July, 2013
    CUSTOMS EXCISE & SERVICE TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL,
    West Block No.2, R. K. Puram, New Delhi
    COURT-I
     Date of hearing: 09.05.2013
    Date of decision:  19 /07/2013
    For Approval and Signature:
    Honble Mr. Justice G. Raghuram, President
    Honble Mr. Sahab Singh, Technical  Member
    1
    Whether Press Reporter may be allowed to see the Order for publication as per Rule 26 of the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982?
    2
    Whether it should be released under Rule 26 of CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for publication in any authoritative report or not?
    3
    Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the Order?
    4
    Whether Order is to be circulated to the Departmental authorities?
    Service Tax Appeal No. 248 of 2006 and 
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 11/RK/2006  dated 30.03.2006  passed by the Commissioner, Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
AND Service Tax Appeal No. 335 of 2008 Arising out of the Order in Original
No. 21 & 22/VKG/CST/2008 dated 18.02.2008 passed by the Commissioner of
Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 415 of 2009
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 09/VKG/CST/29 dated 23.02.2009 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 1356 of 2010
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 30 - 31/RDN/10 dated 30.06.2010 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    Appearance:	 	Shri P.K. Sahu and Sh. Prashant Shukla,  Advocates 
    				for the appellant. 
                     		Shri  Amresh Jain, DR  for the Revenue-Respondent
    Coram:	Honble Mr. Justice G. Raghuram, President
    				Honble Mr. Sahab Singh, Technical Member
    			Final Order No..57036-57039/2013
    Per  Justice G. Raghuram:
          Delhi Public School Society (the assessee) is the common appellant in the appeals before us. It has established and manages several schools in Delhi and elsewhere in India and abroad under the title Delhi Public School (DPS). 
2\. Appeal No. 248 of 2006 is preferred against the adjudication order dated
30-03-2006 passed pursuant to a show cause notice (SCN), dated 24-01-2006,
covering the period 01.07.2003 to 30.09.2004; Appeal No. 335 of 2008 against
the order dated 18.02.2008, passed pursuant to SCN's dated 23-10-2006 and
19-10-2003 covering the period 01.04.2005 to 31.03.2007; Appeal No. 415 of
2009 against the order dated 23.02.2009, passed pursuant to the SCN served on
4-11-2008 on the assessee covering the period 01.04.2007 to 31.03.2008; and
Appeal No. 1356 of 2010 is against the order dated 30.06.2010, passed on the
basis of the SCN dated 05-10-2009 (and a corrigendum dated 21.01.2010,
demanding the demand of service tax due), covering the period 01.04.2008 to
31.03.2009. Service Tax liability of Rs.59,38,111/-; Rs.1,19,27,736/-;
Rs.54,89,959/-; and Rs.63,66,118/- apart from interest and penalties as
specified in the respective orders of adjudication were assessed for the
periods 1-7-2003 to 31-03-2005; 1-4-2005 to 31-3-2007; 1-4-2007 to 31-3-2008;
and 1-4-2008 to 31-3-2009, which are the subject matter of the respective
appeals. Shri P. K. Sahu, the learned counsel for the appellant contends that
the impugned orders are unsustainable since the adjudicating authority erred
in concluding that the assessee had received amounts under transactions
(covered by several agreements with distinct institutions), constituting the
taxable service of Franchise. According to the appellant the impugned orders
are invalid and unsustainable on a plurality of grounds, summarized hereunder:
(a) the transaction(s) [to which the assessee is the common party] with
distinct other parties covered by distinct agreements, do not amount to
Franchise within the meaning of the expression as defined in Sec. 65(47) of
the Finance Act, 1994 (hereinafter the Act) r/w Sec. 65(48) which defines the
term Franchisor. Consequently, the receipts by the assessee in relation to
the transactions are not liable to service tax under 65(105)(zze) of the Act;
(b) prior to 16-06-2005, the expression Franchise was defined to comprise 4
components cumulatively and the transactions in issue did not fulfill 3 of the
4 conditions;
(c) since 16-6-2005, conditions 2 to 4 in the earlier definition of the
expression Franchise were omitted. In respect of the periods after 16.06.2005,
the transactions in issue do not fulfil the singular criterion of the amended
definition (this contention is applicable to part of the periods covered by
adjudication orders which are the subject matters of Appeal Nos. 335 of 2008,
415 of 2009 and 1356 of 2009, i.e., for periods on and from 16-6-2005);
(d) w.e.f 10-9-2004 vide- Sec 65(105)(zzr) of the Act - any service provided
or to be provided to any person, by the holder of intellectual property, in
relation to intellectual property service, is a distinct category of taxable
services; and the transactions of the assessee, if at all, constitute
Intellectual Property Service (IPS) as defined in Sec. 65(55b). Intellectual
Property Rights is defined in Sec. 65(55a). The impugned assessment orders
(even for the period after 10-9-2004) cannot however be sustained (as IPS),
since the relevant SCN's proceeded on the premise that the transactions in
issue constitute Franchise service and the assessee was never put to notice
that it would be liable to service tax as an IPS provider; and
(e) three of the impugned orders (dated 31.03.2006; 23.02.2009; and
30.06.2010, the subject matter of Appeal Nos. 248/2006, 415/2009 and
1356/2010) are pro-tanto invalid since the SCN's in respect of these impugned
orders were issued beyond the normal period of limitation prescribed u/Sec
73(1), invoking the extended period of limitation under the proviso to Sec.
73(1) of the Act, without justification therefor and contrary to settled
precedential authority in this area, the adjudication orders are invalid for
the periods - 1-7-2003 to 30-9-2004; 1-4-2007 to 30-9-2007; and 1-4-2008 to
30-9-2008 (in respect of the adjudication orders impugned in the three appeals
referred to earlier herein).
3\. Before we proceed to advert to the competing contentions addressed before
us on behalf of the assessee and by the learned DR, Shri Amaresh Jain on
behalf of Revenue; appraise the vitality of reasons recorded by the
adjudicating authority; consider the terms and conditions of the agreements
leading to the transactions in issue; and analyze the precedents cited at the
Bar, we consider it appropriate to set out relevant provisions of the Act and
of the agreements, which have a bearing on determination of the appeals.
Relevant provisions of the Act:
(a) Sec. 65(47) defined Franchise (upto 15-6-2005) as meaning an agreement by
which:
i) Franchisee is granted representational right to sell or manufacture goods
or to provide service or undertake any process identified with the Franchisor,
whether or not a trade mark, service mark, trade name or logo or any such
symbol, as the case may be, is involved;
ii) The Franchisor provides concepts of business operation to the franchisee,
including know-how, method of operation, managerial expertise, marketing
technique or training and standards of quality control except passing on the
ownership of all know-how to the franchisee;
iii) the franchisee is required to pay to the franchisor, directly or
indirectly, a fee; and
iv) the franchisee is under an obligation not to engage in selling or
providing similar goods or services or process, identified with any other
person.
(b) since 16-6-2005 however, the definition of Franchise was amended to mean
an agreement by which the franchisee is granted representational right to sell
or manufacture goods or to provide service or undertake any process identified
with franchisor, whether or not a trade mark, service mark, trade name or logo
or any such symbol, as the case may be, is involved.
(c) Sec.65(48) defines Franchisor, as any person who enters into franchise
with a franchisee and includes any associate of franchisor or a person
designated by franchisor to enter into franchise on his behalf and the term
"franchisee" shall be construed accordingly.
(d) Section 65(105)(zze) enacts that the taxable service means any service
provided or to be provided to a franchisee, by the franchisor in relation to
franchise.
(e) Sec.65(55a) defines intellectual property right as meaning any right to
intangible property, namely, trademarks, designs, patents or any other similar
intangible property, under any law for the time being in force, but excluding
copyright.
(f) Sec.65(55b) defines intellectual property service as meaning (a)
transferring, temporarily; or (b) permitting the use or enjoyment of, any
intellectual property right.
(g) Sec.65A (to the extent relevant and material) sets out interpretive
principles for classification of services. Sub-section (2)(b) states that
where for any reason, a taxable service is, prime facie, classifiable under
two or more sub-clauses of clause (105) of Sec.65, classification shall be
effected as follows ----- (b) composite services consisting of a combination
of different services which cannot be classified in the manner specified in
clause (a), shall be classified as if they consisted of a service which gives
them their essential character, insofar as this criterion is applicable. It
requires to be noticed that clause (a) provides that the sub-clause which
provides the most specific description shall be preferred to sub-clauses
providing a more general description.
(h) Sec.65B (introduced w.e.f 1-6-2012 by the Finance Act, 2012) enacts
interpretations of certain expressions occurring in Chapter V of the Act. Sub-
section (44) enjoins that the expression service shall mean any activity
carried out by a person for another for consideration, and includes a declared
service. Activities which however do not constitute service as above defined
are also enumerated in the provision; the exclusions are however not relevant
for our analysis. Shri. Sahu, the learned counsel for the assessee has fairly
stated that this interpretation of the expression service could fairly be
adopted as indicative of the purport of the said expression, prior to
1-6-2012, as well.
4\. Salient clauses of the agreement between the assessee and the Franchisee:
The assessee entered into agreements with distinct entities which intended to
establish schools in different areas (within India and overseas as well) in
collaboration with the assessee. The assessee apparently has experience in
establishing and managing schools that provide quality education and has a
brand image in the said area. We are informed by learned counsel for the
assessee; and this assertion is not disputed by Revenue, that the several
agreements, insofar as are relevant for the purposes of these appeals, are
substantially similar and have identical provisions, relevant to consideration
of this lis. We therefore advert to relevant provisions of the agreement dated
20-01-2004 entered into between the assessee and Maharaja Hari Singh Social
and Educational Foundation, Jammu (hereinafter referred to as Society). This
agreement and another was considered in the adjudication order dated
30-03-2006, the subject of Appeal No. 248 of 2006. Now, to the relevant
provisions of the agreement dated 20-01-2004:
i) the agreement bears the heading Education Joint Venture;
ii) the preamble to the agreement states that as the Society is desirous of
setting up an English medium school at Leh (Ladakh) it approached the assessee
for an educational joint venture and the parties agreed to set up an English
medium school at Leh. Clause 1 provides that the parties would collaborate to
set up the school at Leh. Clause 2. sets out that the assessee permits, allows
and grants a revocable license to the Society to use the name DPS, its Logo
and motto for the purpose of the school to be established at Leh, during
currency of the agreement. Under Clause 3, the Society is required to pay the
assessee rupees one lakh, in advance commencing from the year the school
starts functioning.
iii) Clause 4. provides that the assessee shall be at liberty to grant license
for or open more schools in the area of Leh (Ladakh), in collaboration with
any other society/organization or on its own.
iv) Clause 5. states that the school shall be established, managed and run by
a Board of Management(BOM). Other sub-clauses in this Clause set out the
composition of the BOM. Suffice it to notice, that the chairman of the BOM
shall be the chairman of the assessee or any other nominee of it; and the
vice-chairman is also a nominee of the assessee; and three of the other six
members of the BOM would also be nominees of the assessee. The pro vice-
chairman and three of the ordinary members of the Board would be nominees of
the head of the Society and the pro vice-chairman could exercise powers of the
chairman or the vice-chairman only in their absence. Thus, of the nine members
of the BOM, five are representatives of the assessee and four of the Society.
v) Clause 6. enumerates powers, functions and authority of the BOM. The BOM is
responsible for the management, control and running of the school; all rights
in relation to the school (save as excepted); the liabilities in relation to
the BOM or the school shall however be to the account of the Society (not the
assessee or the BOM); and the BOM is obligated to fulfill the assessee's
(DPSS) policies. Apart from (specified) academic responsibility, the BOM is
entrusted the duty to appoint the Principal, teachers and staff of the school,
to be selected by a selection committee constituted by the assessee which
shall comprise one member of the Society. The Clause sets out other powers and
functions of the BOM which are of a house-keeping nature and incidental to
management.
vi) Clause 7. enumerates the obligations of the Society under the agreement.
The Society (not the assessee) has extensive and exclusive obligations, in
respect of providing land, buildings, all infrastructural amenities for the
school including residential accommodation for the Principal, teachers and
staff; and the entire financial responsibility towards these provisions. The
Society is also responsible for meeting the deficit in the revenue budgeted
expenditure, to raise loans for all establishment and running expenditure and
to meet the consequent financial liability. The assessee is specifically
immunized any liability or responsibility in this area and the Society
undertakes to indemnify the assessee from any claims in this regard. Sub-
clause (p) enjoins the Society to ensure that the school will be in a single
campus and that no other educational or other institution (unconnected with
the assessee) purports to claim any association with the school. The Society
is also required to contest all litigation against the assessee by third
parties, arising out of the agreement (under instructions from the assessee)
and to bear all the expenses in this behalf.
vii) Obligations of the assessee are spelt out in Clause 8. Included are
academic, managerial, supervisory and mentoring obligations, integral to
transfer of the assessee's academic, operational and managerial expertise in
the area of establishing and running of schools. Sub-clause (g) enjoins that
the assessee will allow and permit use of the name (DPS), its motto/logo,
during currency of the agreement; however without any right/title/interest
acquiring thereto to the Society or the school. It is specifically stipulated
that the rights in the name/motto/logo are the absolute property of the
assessee and use of the name (DPS), the motto or the logo is limited for the
purposes of the Leh school; and use of these is prohibited for establishing
branches or granting sub-licenses [sub-clause (h)].
viii) Clause 9. sets out the further agreed terms and conditions between the
parties. Accordingly, the school building, furniture, fittings, laboratory,
library and sports materials etc., shall be provided by the Society; the
Society shall bear the expenditure of the staff and the assessee shall not be
liable for the same; and on determination of the agreement all assets will
stand transferred to the Society. The entire liability arising out of
termination of the faculty, staff shall be to the sole account of the Society,
to the total exclusion of the assessee.
ix) Clauses 10 and 11 of the agreement set out provisions relating to the
tenure of the agreement, extension of the same and for termination thereof.
x) Clause 12. stipulates that on termination of the agreement and closure of
the school, all moveable and immoveable properties of the school will be
returned to the Society, after settlement of the liabilities owing to the
assessee; and on dissolution, the Society shall be exclusively liable for all
claims against the school, its BoM or the assessee in respect of the
management thereof; and the assessee will not in any manner be liable. Clause
13. stipulates that on termination of the agreement, the Society will not use
the name/logo/motto of DPS or identical/similar or deceptively similar
name/logo/motto, even if it desires to run a school in the same premises or
elsewhere.
Analyses of the impugned adjudication orders:
As earlier noticed, there are four adjudication orders. The challenge in the
appeals before us is to the normative bases, interpretation of the agreements
and of the statutory provisions, leading to the assessments. It is the
demonstrable position that the several adjudication orders have employed a
substantially identical raft of reasons and process of interpretation of the
relevant material to determine the liability of the assessee to service tax,
interest and penalties. We therefore treat the adjudication order dated
30-03-2006 (assailed in Appeal No. 248 of 2006) as a representative order, for
analyses.
5\. Analyses of O-I-O No. 11/ RK/2006, dated 30.03.2006:
Events preceding the adjudication order-
(i) Revenue addressed a letter dated 08.08.2003 to the assessee calling upon
it to obtain registration under the provisions of the Act under the category
Franchise service. In response the assessee by its letter dated 14.11.2003
claimed that it was not a Franchisor. On 26.12.2003 and 30.12.2003, the
assessee was issued summons seeking copies of operation agreements and details
of amounts received since 01.07.2003, in any form. The assessee by its letter
dated 15.01.2004 furnished the documents/ records, including copies of the
operational agreements, details of money receipts since 01.07.2003 and names
of its nominees. Revenue by the letter dated 11.06.2004 called upon the
assessee to submit details of amounts received till 31.03.2004. Another letter
was addressed on 02.07.2004, by way of a reminder. The assessee under its
letter dated 12.07.2004 furnished details to Revenue regarding :-
(a) Amounts received during January 2004 to 31.03.2004 under agreements with
schools in the name of DPS;
(b) Copy of the agreement with Maharaja Harisingh Social & Educational
Foundation, Leh (Ladakh); and
(c) Copy of the agreement with Shyam Vihar Misra Memorial Charitable Trust,
Kanpur. Revenue on 02.11.2004 directed the assessee to furnish a list of
agreements entered into with various parties, for opening schools. In
response, the assessee vide letter dated 11.11.2004 enclosed ten (10)
agreements. Revenue vide letter dated 29.11.2004 informed the assessee that it
is liable to pay service tax from 01.07.2003 as a provider of the taxable
Franchise Service. By another letter dated 02.12.2004, the assessee was
asked to comply with provisions of the Act. Thereafter, the assessee was
issued summon dated 13.01.2005 for submission of requisite documents regarding
registration and payment of service tax. In response, the assessee on
02.02.2005 stated that it was not rendering any taxable service. Thereafter,
vide letter dated 19.04.2005 the assessee furnished details of amounts
collected on account of maintenance charges/ signing fees due from 01.07.2003
to 31.03.2004 and 01.04.2004 to 31.03.2005 from its franchisees.
(ii) On 24.01.2006, a show cause notice was addressed to the assessee. The
assessee submitted its response vide letter dated 20.02.2006. The assessee
contended that it was not liable to remit service tax and in any case was
under the bonafide belief that no service tax was payable; that its activities
were within the knowledge of Revenue; and therefore there was no justification
for invoking the extended period of limitation nor for levy of penalty.
(iii) After considering the material on record including the written
submissions and contentions urged on behalf of the assessee, the adjudication
order was passed on 30.03.2006.
6\. Analyses of the conclusions in the adjudication order:-
(a) Para 4 dealt with the assessees claim that it did not provide the taxable
franchise service, defined in Section 65 (47) of the Act. The order noticed
that Section 65 (47) required fulfilment of four ingredients to constitute
franchise service and proceeded to consider whether the four ingredients were
fulfilled. In para 4.4.1, the order concluded that since the assessee
permitted the franchisee trust to use its logo (DPS) to provide the
educational service and undertake the educational process identified with it,
the first ingredient is fulfilled.
(b) Para 5 of the order considered whether the second ingredient is fulfilled
and concluded that since the assessee provides managerial expertise, concept
of business operations and know-how of its operations to the franchisee but
does not pass the ownership of the know-how to the franchisee, the second
ingredient is fulfilled.
(c) Para 6 of the order considered whether the third ingredient is satisfied.
The third ingredient is that the franchisee should pay a fee to the
franchisor, directly or indirectly. Since a stipulated amount is payable to
the assessee at signing of the agreement and annual amounts are also payable
commencing from a specified date, the order concluded that the third
ingredient is satisfied.
(d) Fulfilment of the fourth ingredient was analysed in paragraph 7. The
fourth ingredient obligates the franchisee not to engage in selling or
providing similar goods or service or process, identified with any other
person. The adjudicating authority concluded that since a clause of the
agreement requires that the school shall be operated from a single campus and
the franchisee shall ensure that no other educational or other institution,
unconnected with the assessee shall claim an association with the school and
these conditions restrict and prohibit the franchisee from engaging in
providing similar service within the campus, identifiable with any other body,
other than the assessee, the fourth ingredient is also fulfilled.
(e) Part B of the order dealt with the claim of the assessee that since it
is a charitable and not a commercial organisation its activities cannot be
considered commercial service and are thus outside the purview of taxable
service. This contention is rejected on the ground that definitions of
franchise and franchise service do not exclude the activity of the assessee.
In the appeal before us the assessee has not perused this aspect of the
matter.
(f) In part C of the adjudication order the contention of the assessee that
the agreement being in the name of the joint venture, the service provided if
any would be to itself and the amounts received cannot therefore be regarded
as consideration for service rendered to other entities and would not thus be
taxable, was discussed. This contention was negatived in para 10 of the
adjudication order.
(g) Part D of the order considered the assessees claim to have harboured a
bonafide belief that it was immune to the liability to tax; that its
activities were within the knowledge of Revenue and therefore there was no
justification for invoking the extended period. The adjudication authority
held that the contravention by the assessee was deliberate and calculated to
evade service tax; that Revenue was unaware of the existence of the
agreements, information regarding other entities, terms and conditions; and
particulars and duration of payments and services; and the relevant
information was revealed only pursuant to constant correspondence with the
assessee, including after issue of summons. The adjudicating authority also
held that since the assessee had failed to disclose material facts to Revenue
and to obtain registration and pay service tax, even after being informed of
its liability, there is intent to evade payment of service tax. The
adjudicating authority further observed that Revenue initially had no
knowledge of the entire activities of the assessee and discovered the relevant
and total nature of its operations only after responses received pursuant to
several letters addressed and summons issued.
(h) Part E of the adjudication order records conclusions as regards
computation of the gross amount charged under Section 67 of the Act i.e.
inclusive of service tax component. This aspect is not in issue in any of
these appeals.
(i) In part F of the adjudication order, the assessees contention against
levy of penalties was rejected.
(j) The adjudicating authority accordingly justified invocation of the
extended period of limitation; confirmed the demand of service tax of Rs.
58,92,297/-; education cess of Rs. 45,814/-; ordered payment of interest under
Section 75; imposed penalties under Section 76 and penalty equal to the
service tax and cess assessed, under Section 78 of the Act, besides imposing
penalty under Section 77.
7\. Issues for determination :
Having regard to the competing contentions, the following issues arise for
determination:-
A) Whether no taxable service under any category was provided by the assessee?
B) Alternatively, whether (for the period 01.07.2003 to 15.06.2005 i.e. prior
to 16.06.2005) the activities of the petitioner fall outside the ambit of
franchise, defined in Section 65(47), since;
i) The first ingredient of franchise namely the franchisee being granted a
representational right to provide service or undertake any process identified
with the assessee (the Franchisor) was not involved as per the terms of the
agreement;
ii) The second ingredient of franchise i.e. the assessee (franchisor)
providing the concept of business operations to the franchisee including
knowhow, method of operation, managerial expertise, marketing techniques,
standard of quality control but excluding the passing of the ownership of all
the knowhow to the franchisee, is equally not satisfied, since the agreement
is a joint venture agreement involving a joint and collaborative arrangement
between the parties; and
iii) The third ingredient is also not fulfilled since the agreement enjoined
no obligation on the franchisee not to engage in providing similar services or
process, identified with any other person;
C) Whether, on and after 16.06.2005 (pursuant to amendment of the definition
of franchise), the activities of the assessee fall outside the ambit of the
taxable franchise service, since no representational right is granted by the
assessee to the franchisee, to provide service or undertake any process
identified with the assessee, particularly since under a joint venture
agreement / arrangement no representational right is conferred on one joint
venture partner to represent the other parties;
D) W.E.F. 10.09.2004 a new taxable service, namely a service provided to any
person by the holder of intellectual property right, in relation to
intellectual property service was introduced vide Section 65(105)(zzr).
Intellectual property service is defined in Section 65(55)(b) and intellectual
property right in Section 65(55)(a). Since the brand name (DPS), its logo and
motto apart from its concept of business operations, managerial expertise etc.
are provided to the trusts/ societies to run educational institutions, the
service provided by the assessee would appropriately be comprised within the
newly introduced (w.e.f. 19.09.2004) taxable service in relation to
intellectual property service. Whether, in the circumstances the activities of
the assessee always constituted IPS and therefore outside the ambit of
franchise service, even prior to 10.09.2004; and the assessments cannot also
be justified as IPS after 10.09.2004 as well, since the assessee was never put
on notice that Revenue proposes to assess under IPS;
E) Whether the adjudication orders, invoking the extended period of
limitation, to the extent the extended period was invoked, are unsustainable;
F) Whether imposition of penalty is unsustainable since the failure of the
assessee to remit service tax was on account of a bonafide belief as to its
simmunity to service tax, arising out of a bonafide interpretation of the
relevant provisions.
8\. Joint Venture  Contention of the assessee:
This is a contention relevant to Issue A. The agreement (s) is designated as
education joint venture. We have earlier herein set out the salient clauses
of the agreement. The recitals state that the assessee and the other party to
the agreement (a society) have jointly agreed to set up an English Medium
School, pursuant to the other party desiring so and approaching the assessee
for an educational joint venture. Clause 1 states that the two parties would
collaborate for setting up an English Medium School. Other clauses of the
agreement bring out the true nature of the arrangement between the parties.
Under clause 2 of the agreement the assessee grants a revocable license to the
other party to use its name (DPS), its logo and motto for the purpose of the
School, for the duration of the agreement. Under clause 3, the other party is
required to pay the specified amount annually to the assessee as the
consideration for granting the license specified in clause 2 and for the other
obligations to be performed by the assessee. Clauses 5 and 6 enjoin that the
school should be established, managed and operated through a BoM comprising
five representatives of the assessee and four of the other party, with the
Principal of the school acting as the Secretary of the BoM. It is the BoM that
is entrusted the function of management, control and running of the school.
While all rights in relation to the School vest with the BoM, the liability in
relation thereto, of the school or the BoM is to be borne only by other party
and the assessee is also indemnified against all manner of liability in
relation to the school. The BoM is obligated to fidelity to policy decisions
by the assessee and is entrusted enumerated functions regarding academic,
managerial and administrative control over affairs of the school. The raising
of funds by loans, donations or voluntary contributions is however the
exclusive obligation of the other party, though in consonance with the norms
of the assessee. Clause 7 details the several obligations of the other party
to the agreement including the entirety of the financial commitment and
provision of land; place; suitable accommodation; furniture for the library;
laboratories; facility in relation to sport activities; adequate transport and
other infrastructure, including for expansion; residential accommodation for
faculty and other staff or for payment of HRA in lieu of accommodation;
medical allowances; and a general obligation to make available the entirety of
the requisite funds for administration of the enterprise including capital and
other expenses. Clause 7 (q) indemnifies the assessee from the consequences of
any litigation arising from or out of the agreement and all expenditure in
this behalf is the obligation of the other party. Clause 8 sets out the
obligations of the assessee. These pertain to maintenance of standards of
academic excellence; carrying out academic and other activities related or
incidental to imparting of quality education; to provide expertise, knowhow
and educational tools and material to ensure academic and other standards; to
supervise evaluate and monitor academic and other activities of the school;
periodically to depute visiting teams, though the travel and incidental
expenditure is to be borne by the other party; to allow and promote use of the
name (DPS), the motto/ logo, for the purpose of the school during the currency
of the agreement but with the covenant that the name (DPS) and its motto/ logo
shall not be used or misused, in violation of the agreement. Clause 8(h)
specifically clarifies that the name / motto/ logo is under the agreement
confined to the school to be established at the designated place and cannot be
used for establishing branches or issuing licenses or sub-licences. Under
clause 9 of the agreement it is the explicit obligation of the other party to
provide all financial inputs for establishing and running of the school and is
also required to provide the buildings and infrastructure, so however that all
the assets will be transferred to the other party on determination of the
agreement. This clause also stipulates that the other party alone (and not the
assessee) would be responsible for salaries and other financial commitments in
relation to the school and further that on termination of the agreement, the
other party would be exclusively liable to meet all expenses, liabilities etc.
incurred for settlement of service dues and the like.
9\. Shri Sahu referred to two decisions of this Tribunal in support of his
contention that since the agreements between the assessee and the other
parties are education joint ventures, the services provided by the assessee
thereunder would not constitute taxable services. In CCE, Chennai vs, Sundaram
Finance Ltd.1, the respondent a non-banking finance company entered into a
Joint Venture with a Dutch company whereunder the respondent provided certain
services to the Joint Venture company. Revenue proceeded against the
respondent, for levy service tax for having provided the taxable management
consultancy service. Departmental adjudication proceedings having been
dropped, Revenue preferred an appeal to this Tribunal. Dismissing the appeal
by Revenue and relying on an earlier judgment in Glaxo Smithkline
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. CCE, Mumbai2  2006 (3) STR 711 (Tri-Mum.), it was
declared that since services were rendered by the respondent to the Joint
Venture these services were the nature of internal organisation and internal
management, falling outside the definition of management consultancy.
10\. In Phase 1 Events & Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. vs. CST, Bangalore3 the
appellant company conducted a festival while part of committee which had
organised the festival, relating to Indo-German Relations. The festival
committee entrusted organisation of the event to the appellant company.
Upholding the claim of the assessee/ appellant, this Tribunal concluded that
since the appellant was a member of the committee which organised the festival
there was no client -service provider relationship warranting levy of service
tax. These decisions would be relevant only if the agreements pursuant to
which the assessee herein provided service to the other party under the
agreements, are in truth and reality Joint Venture agreements.
11\. Two other decisions, one of the Supreme court and the other of the
Chancery Division were also cited on behalf of the assessee. In Sultan Bros.
(P) Ltd. vs. CIT, Bombay City II4, the appellant company leased out a building
owned by it duly fitted with furniture and fixtures. The lease agreement
provided separately for a specified monthly rent for the building and for hire
charges for furniture and fixtures. The question was how the income received
as rent and hire are to be assessed i.e. under which Section of the Income Tax
Act, 1922. According to the appellant the entire income should have been
assessed under Section 10, as income from business or alternatively under
Section 12 as income from a residuary source, a source not specified in
Sections 7 to 11, with allowances respectively specified in sub-section (3)
and (4) of Section 12. For the relevant assessment year, Revenue taxed the
appellant under Section 9 in respect of rent on the building and under Section
12 in respect of hire charges received towards hire of furniture and fixtures.
The appellate authority concluded that rent from the building could only be
assessed under Section 12 with the allowances mentioned in sub-section (4)
since for letting of furniture and fixtures it was indispensible to let the
building also. On further appeal the Tribunal confirmed, holding that the
allowances mentioned in Section 12(4) cannot be allowed since that sub-section
was applicable only where the letting of the building was incidental to the
letting of the furniture and fixtures; and that was not the case on hand. On
reference, the High Court confirmed. To the extent relevant and material for
the present case, the Supreme Court, interpreting the provisions of Section 12
of the Act observed that the inseperability referred to in sub-section (4) is
one arising from the intention of the parties. If it was the intention in
drawing up the lease agreement (whether the agreements were one or two) to
charge separately for lease of the building and separately for furniture and
fixtures, the agreements considered as a whole, then it should be concluded
that it is the intention of the parties that furniture and fixtures and the
buildings should be enjoyed separately from one another and not together.
Allowing the appeal, the Supreme Court answered the question as reframed by it
by stating that rent from the building must be computed separately from the
income on furniture and fixtures; that in case of rent from the building the
appellant would be entitled to allowances mentioned in Section 12(4) and in
case of income from furniture and fixtures, to those mentioned in Section
12(3); and that no part of the income could be assessed under Sections 9 or 10
of the Act.
12\. In Byrom and Others (trading as Salon 24) vs. Revenue and Customs
Commissioners5 ; the appellant was pursuing trade as a massage parlour from a
premises which include toilet facilities, a kitchen a day room for use by
ladies self-employed (masseuses) awaiting customers, a changing room for the
ladies, a shower room and a sitting area for customers awaiting service, etc.
On the first floor there were four rooms for masseuses to entertain their
customs apart from a toilet and an additional room for use by the masseuses.
The appellant entered into a written contract with the ladies to offer massage
services; providing separately for rent of the room; including use of laundry
facilities, during stipulated hours. Appellant was brought to tax under the
relevant sales tax (VAT) provisions of U.K. The relevant provision of the Act
of 1944 incorporated an exemption from VAT for leasing or letting of
immovable properties. The issue before the Chancery Division was how these
bundled services (including leasing and letting of immovable property) should
be categorised in the context of the applicable legislation. Dismissing the
appeal it was held that the resulting single supply must be categorised as a
complex of elements comprising the provision of the license and various
appurtenant services; that the overarching single supply is not to be treated
as a supply of a license to occupy land; that the description which reflects
the economic and social reality is a supply of massage parlour services, one
element of which is the provision of the room; and that in the facts of the
case, the provision of the room to was the ladies the single most important
element of the overall supply and one which predominated over the other
elements taken together.
13\. The aforesaid two decisions (Sultan Bros and Byrom) afford no possible
guidance to resolution of the issue whether the transactions involved in the
present appeals fall within the taxable  franchise service. It cannot be
gainfully contended by the assessee that provision of buildings and
infrastructure and footing of the expenditure therefor by the other parties to
the agreements are the foundational premises of the enterprise nor does the
contention commend acceptance that these are the essential integers of the
enterprise. The dominant component of the enterprise is the provision by the
assessee of the four ingredients of franchise service as per the definition
upto 15.06.2005 and the ingredients of the definition subsequent thereto;
namely granting of a representational right to provide service or undertake
any process identified with the assessee. The fact that buildings and
infrastructure are requisite for the pursuit of the enterprise would not
derogate from the fact that without the transfer of the expertise; know-how;
operational methodology; brand name and other incidents of the assessees
experience in the field, the enterprise would not have fructified.
Fertilisation and impregnation of these core competencies of the assessee into
the schools to be established and for their functioning, is all that the
agreements envisaged.
14\. In Faqir Chand Gulati vs. Uppal Agencies Pvt. Ltd6 the issue was whether
a land owner who entered into an agreement with the builder for construction
of an apartment building and for sharing of the constructed area, is a
consumer entitled to maintain a complaint against the builder as a service
provider, under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The Supreme Court referred
to its earlier decision in New Horizons Ltd. vs. Union of India7 and to the
definition of Joint Venture in American Jurisprudence, in Corpus Juris
Secundum and in Blacks Law Dictionary, to identify the contours of Joint
Ventures. The respondent (builder) had contended that since the agreement
between himself and the land owner was designated as a collaboration agreement
and was therefore in the nature of a Joint Venture, there could be no
deficiency of service and the land owner could not prefer a consumer complaint
in relation to any shortfall in the builder delivering upon its obligations
under such an agreement. The Supreme Court reiterated the settled principle
that the title, caption or the nomenclature of an instrument/ document is not
determinative of the nature and the character of the instrument; though the
name may usually provide some indication of the nature, the nature and true
character of a document must be determined with reference to the terms of the
document, which express the intention of the parties. The use of the words
Joint Venture or collaboration in the title of an agreement or even in the
body of the agreement will not make the transaction a joint venture, if there
are no provisions for shared control of interest or enterprise or shared
liability for losses, pointed out the Court. The agreement between the builder
and the landlord was considered by the Supreme Court to be a hybrid agreement
for construction for consideration and sale and as a pseudo joint venture; not
a true joint venture. The earlier decision of Supreme Court in New Horizons
Limited, the definition of joint venture in American Jurisprudence, in Corpus
Juris Secundum and in Blacks Law Dictionary also clearly indicate that
sharing, both in profits and losses and a community of interest among the
parties are among the integral ingredients of joint ventures and each joint
venturer stands in the relation of the principal, as well as an agent, as to
each of the other co-venturers within the general scope of the enterprise,
concurred the Court.
15\. Shri Sahu, ld. Counsel for the appellant referred to a passage from the
Law of Partnership by Dr. Avtar Singh which is to the effect that while a
provision in the partnership agreement for sharing of losses may be necessary
for enjoying tax concessions by registration under the Income Tax Act, is not
a requisite under the Partnership Act for creating a partnership, referring to
a judgment of the Bombay High Court, reported in AIR 1927 Bom 187. The learned
author also refers to a passage in Halsburys Laws of England and to a English
judgment referred to therein for the proposition that sharing of gains and
losses is not a sine qua non for a valid partnership, or a joint venture
arrangement.
16\. Before we part with the aspect relating to interpretation of the
agreements between the assessee and the other parties, for establishing
schools under the brand name, motto and logo of the assessee, a brief analysis
of the general principles of interpretation / construction of documents is
appropriate.
(a) In Radha Sundar Dutta vs. Mohd. Jahadur Rahim8; Puzhakkal Kuttappu vs. C.
Bhargavi and Others9; Ford against Beech10; Inntrepreneur Pub Co. Ltd. vs.
East Crown Ltd.11; Investors Compensation Scheme Ltd. vs. West Bromwich
Building Society12 and Hideo Yoshimoto v. Canterbury Golf International
Limited13 the general principles pertaining to construction of documents/
contracts were delineated:
Lord Hoffmann in the leading opinion of the House of Lords (with which the
other learned law Lords concurred) in West Bromwich Building Society, while
observing that almost all the old intellectual baggage of legal
interpretation was discarded, summarized the principles by which contractual
documents are presently considered, as under:
(i) Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document
would convey to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which
would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which
they were at the time of the contract.
(ii) The background was famously referred to by Lord Wilberforce as the
matrix of fact, but this phrase is, if anything, an understated description
of what the background may include. Subject to the requirement that it should
have been reasonably available to the parties and to the exception to be
mentioned next, it includes absolutely anything which would have affected the
way in which the language of the documents would have been understood by a
reasonable man.
(iii) The law excludes from the admissible background the previous
negotiations of the parties and their declarations of subjective intent. They
are admissible only in an action for rectification. The law makes this
distinction for reasons of practical policy and, in this respect only, legal
interpretation differs from the way we would interpret utterances in ordinary
life. The boundaries of this exception are in some respects unclear. But this
is not the occasion on which to explore them.
(iv) The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a
reasonable man is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning
of words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document
is what the parties using those words against the relevant background would
reasonably have been understood to mean. The background may not merely enable
the reasonable man to choose between the possible meanings of words which are
ambiguous but even (as occasionally happens in ordinary life) to conclude that
the parties must, for whatever reason, have used the word words or syntax
(Mannai Investment Co. Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd. 14).
(v) The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning
reflects the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people
have made linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other
hand, if one would nevertheless conclude from the background that something
must have gone wrong with the language, the law does not require judges to
attribute to the parties An intention which they plainly could not have had.
Lord Diplock made this point more vigorously when he said in Antaios Cia
Naviera SA v. Salen Rederierna AB, The Antaios 15 ... if detailed semantic
and syntactical analyses of words in a commercial contract is going to lead to
a conclusion that flouts business common sense, it must be made to yield to
business common sense.
17\. In Hideo Yoshimoto, Thomas, J for the New Zealand Court of Appeal after
quoting with approval the restatement of law by Lord Hoffmann in West Bromwich
Building Society and noting that the five principles Lord Hoffmann articulated
were reiterated and applied by the New Zealand Court of Appeal in Boat Park
Ltd. v. Hutchison, referred to a paradigm shift in the interpretative
principles noticed by Wigmore16 and agreed with the observation : The history
of the law of interpretation is the history of a progress from a stiff and
superstitious formalism to a flexible rationalism; and proceeded to state: The
cardinal rule of contractual interpretation must be to ascertain the intention
of the parties. To the extent this rule is not implemented, the courts must
incur the criticism of failing to give effect to the reasonable expectations
of the parties. Surely the parties are reasonably entitled to expect that the
courts will strive to ascertain their true intention or, certainly, not to
arrive at a meaning of their contract which is at variance with their actual
intention. They cannot expect that the judicial exercise of constructing their
contract will be buried under a stockpile of excessive formalism.
Lewison17 refers to a lucid summary of the relevant principles set out in the
judgment of Saville, J in Vitol B.V. v. Compagnie Europeene des Petroles18 :
The approach of the English law to questions of the true construction of
contracts of this kind is to seek objectively to ascertain the intentions of
the parties from the words which they have chosen to use. If those words are
clear and admit of only one sensible meaning, then that is the meaning to be
ascribed to them and that meaning is taken to represent what the parties
intended. If the words are not so clear and admit of more than one sensible
meaning, then the ambiguity may be resolved by looking at the aim and genesis
of the agreement, choosing the meaning which seems to make the most sense in
the context of the contract and its surrounding circumstances as a whole. In
some cases, of course, having attempted this exercise, it may simply remain
impossible to give the words any sensible meaning at all in which case they
(or some of them) are either ignored, that is to say, treated as not forming
part of the contract at all, or (if of apparent central importance) treated as
demonstrating that the parties never made an agreement at all, that is to say,
had never truly agreed upon the vital terms of their bargain.
In para 4 (supra) we have reiterated the relevant clauses of the
representative agreement relevant to the present lis. On a true and fair
analyses of the agreements between the parties it is clear that not only is
the assessee wholly immune to any lossess arising out of the enterprise - the
educational institution to be established pursuant to the agreement but has
also no entitlement to any share in the profits arising therefrom. Any
accretions to the enterprise, accruing as a result of profitable running of
the schools would constitute assets which would be transferred only to the
other party (not the assessee), vide clause 9 of the agreement. The
participation of the assessee in the management of the schools, through its
representation on the BoM is calibrated only for effectuation of the assesses
perceived expertise and experience, in establishing and running quality
English Medium Schools. For this service provided, the assessee receives
remuneration as clearly indicated in clause 3 of the agreement. All financial
inputs, obligations and liabilities, including liabilities arising out of any
litigation in respect of the enterprise is to the account of the other party
and to the exclusion of the assessee. In the totality of circumstances neither
the indicia of a partnership or a joint venture is discernable from the terms
and conditions of the agreements between the parties, particularly since there
is neither a contribution of assets nor a sharing of profits and / or losses
provided in the agreements between the parties. These normative ingredients of
a partnership or a joint venture are absent.
18\. In view of the authoritative pronouncement by the Supreme Court in New
Horizons Limited, reiterated in Faqir Chand Gulati, we are required to
conclude that an agreement such as one in the present case which places the
entire financial burden of establishing and maintaining the school, including
the liability to fund the entire capital and non capital expenditure; under
writing the entire financial liability; liability arising out of any
litigation; and obligating further that all available and remaining assets on
determination of the agreement would revert to the other party alone, would
not tantamount to a joint venture arrangement, regardless of the description
of the arrangement as a joint venture or a collaborative arrangement. The fact
that the other party is required to pay a specified amount to the assessee
clearly and compellingly indicates that the assessee is remunerated for
services provided to the other party to the agreement. Clearly therefore there
is a service provided by the assessee to another, for consideration. There is
no element of service to the assessee itself.
Issue A is accordingly answered against the assessee. We hold that the
assessee provides service, not to itself but to the other parties to the
agreements. Whether the service is a taxable service; and if so is to be
classified in which taxable category, is an aspect which will be considered in
analyses of the following issues.
19\. Issue B : This issue requires determination as to whether during the
period 01.07.2003 to 15.06.2003 [prior to amendment of the definition of
franchise in Section 65(47)], the services provided by the petitioner
satisfy the ingredients of franchise as defined. As earlier adverted to,
franchise is defined during the period (01.07.2003 to 15.06.2005) as
comprising four ingredients:
(a) The franchisor granting representational to the franchisee to provide
service or undertake any process identified with the franchisor;
(b) The franchisor providing concepts of business operation to the franchise
including know-how, method of operation, managerial expertise, marketing
techniques or training and standard of quality control except passing on
ownership of the know-how, to the franchisee;
(c) The franchisee having to pay a fee to the franchisor, directly or
indirectly; and
(d) The franchisee being under an obligation not to engage in providing
similar services or process, identified with any other person.
On 20.06.2003, Board circular No. 59/8/2003-ST was issued to clarify the
contours of new taxable services introduced pursuant to the Finance Act, 2003,
including franchise service, brought into force w.e.f. 01.07.2003. This
circular states that franchise service as defined in Section 65(47) of the
Act sets out four generic ingredients and unless all the four ingredients of
the sub-section are satisfied, an agreement cannot be called franchise
agreement. Revenue does not contest this proposition, in view of the clear
definition of franchise w.e.f. 01.07.2003, until its redefinition w.e.f.
16.06.2005.
Since the assessee, under the terms of the agreements receives an annual fee
from the other party to the agreements, the third ingredient is clearly
fulfilled. In our analysis on Issue A we have concluded against the assessee
that the enterprise pursuant to the agreements is not a joint venture in the
true sense of the term and that the services provided by the assessee to the
other party would not constitute services to itself but would clearly
constitute services to another. The terms of the agreement clearly reveal that
the other party to the agreements is granted a representational right to
provide services by way of imparting of education through the school to be
established, representing the name (DPS), the motto and the logo of the
assessee, the holder of the brand associated therewith. Further the assessee
provides its established concepts of imparting education; its managerial
expertise and operational techniques and standards of imparting education to
the other party to the agreements. On this view of the matter the first and
second ingredients of franchise are also fulfilled. The fourth ingredient
enjoins that the franchisee should be under an obligation not to engage in
providing services or processes, identified with any other person. This
ingredient indicates that the other party to the agreements should be
obligated not to establish or administer an English Medium School identified
with any other person. In clause 8 (h) [of the representative agreement
considered for analysis], we have noticed that rights in the name/ motto/ logo
are stipulated to be the absolute property of the assessee and the use of
these is prohibited to the other party for establishing branches or granting
sub licenses. Clause 7 (p) and (r) clearly stipulate that amongst the
obligations of the other party is the clear obligation to ensure that no other
educational or other institution, connected with the assessee purports to
claim an association with the school, to be established under the agreements;
and the other party also undertakes not to cause or use, connect, associate or
relate the name, logo or motto of the assessee with any other activity
commercial or otherwise, other than for the School to be established under the
agreement, either in the media, advertisements, greeting cards or any other
means of communication, including but not limited to letter heads, visiting
cards. The interactive effect of the aforementioned stipulations, considered
in the general tenor of the agreement clearly fulfil the fourth ingredient of
the definition of franchise as well.
We therefore conclude, in concurrence with a similar conclusion by the
adjudicating authority, that during 01.07.2003 to 15.06.2005, the terms of the
agreements fulfil the four ingredients of the expression franchise as
defined in Section 65(47) and therefore the assessee has provided the said
taxable service. Issue B is answered accordingly and against the assessee.
20\. Issues C and D With effect from 16.06.2005, franchise is defined
(to the extent relevant and material for the lis), to mean an agreement where
the other party is granted a representational right to provide service or
undertake any process identified with the franchisor. Ingredients (2) and (4)
of the earlier definition are omitted. In the light of our analysis on issues
A and B and for reasons recorded therein the assessee must be considered
as having provided the taxable franchise service subsequent to 16.06.2005 as
well.
The appellant has contended that w.e.f. 10.09.2004 a new taxable service was
introduced vide Section 65(105)(zzr) which is enacted to be a service provided
to any person by the holder of Intellectual Property Right (IPR) in relation
to Intellectual Property Service (IPS). IPR is defined in Section 65 (55a) and
IPS in Section 65(55b). IPR is defined to mean any right to intangible
property, namely, trademarks, designs, patents or any other similar intangible
property, under any other law for the time being in force, but excluding
copyright IPS is defined to mean transferring, temporarily or permitting the
use or enjoyment of, any intellectual property right. The assessee argues that
w.e.f. 10.09.2004 the agreements, on a true and fair construction of their
terms, constitute the taxable service falling under Section 65(105)(zzr) and
therefore subsequent to 10.09.2004 the assessee could not have been assessed
to service tax for having provided franchise service. The assessee cannot
also be assessed to service tax for having provided the taxable IPS, since
even from the show cause notice stage and thereafter as well, the assessee was
never put on notice that it would be assessed to tax as the provider of IPS.
In this connection, Shri Sahu referred to a Board circular dated 27.10.2008
which is a clarification of service tax liability in relation to production of
alcoholic beverages under a brand licensing arrangement. Para 2.1 of the
circular clarifies that wherever licensee/ manufacturers alcoholic beverages
under the authority to use a brand name granted by the owner of such brand
name  the brand owner; and even where the brand owner provides technical
staff/ assistance to maintain the required quality, alcoholic beverages so
manufactured on the user of such brand name and technical know-how would come
within the taxable IPS, even where the property, risk and reward of products
so manufactured inhere with the manufacturer and not the brand owner. We are
not inclined to lay much credit on this Board circular, particularly since
there is no apparent analyses in the circular on whether such activity would
not comprise the other taxable category namely franchise service. In any
event, in the agreements under consideration in the present lis, apart from
receiving remuneration for services provided by the assessee and inherence of
risk and reward of the enterprise solely and exclusively on the other parties
and not on the assessee, there is also a more regular engagement between the
assessee and the other party under the agreements for the purpose of ensuring
integration of the assessee academic and managerial experience; operational
inputs and its concepts of the business of establishing and running quality
English Medium Schools. Further, there is no transfer of the right in the
name/ logo/ motto from the assessee to the other party.
Another contention of the appellant requires to be considered. According to
Shri Sahu, the adjudicating authority had assessed the demand on the analysis
of sample agreements between the assessee and other parties and concluded that
the assessee is administering schools in collaboration with the others; is
actively participating in management of the schools with a dominant role
thereat vis-`-vis the other parties. The role of the CESTAT is therefore
confined to the issue as to whether the conclusion by the adjudicating
authority that the assessee had given representational rights to the other
parties, in terms of the agreements, is valid and sustainable; this Tribunal
cannot in the circumstances arrive at a conclusion as to the taxability of the
assessee contrary to the conclusions recorded by the adjudicating authority.
Shri Sahu referred to several decisions on this aspect including Hukum Chand
Mills Ltd. vs. CIT19 ; Karanataka State Forest Industries Corporation Ltd. vs.
CIT20; Ciba of India Ltd. vs. CIT 21; CIT vs. Indira Balkrishna22; Hindustan
Ferodo Ltd. vs. C.C.E.23; Saci Allied Products Ltd. vs. C.C.E., Meerut24;
Warner Hindustan Ltd. vs. C.C.E., Hyderabad25; and Reckitt & Colman of India
Ltd. vs. C.C.E. 26.
The above citations, in our respectful view, do not assist the appellant. In
paragraphs 5.3 to 5.5 ( of the adjudication order dated 30.3.2006  the
subject matter of ST Appeal No.248/20006), the adjudicating authority analysed
the claim of the assessee that it was not expected to have a mere passive
role, of receiving money for allowing the franchisee to exploit its goodwill
and had in fact a dominant role in running the schools and anybody having a
dominant role is the master of the situation and has a definitive role in
managing the organisation by applying its know-how and expertise in running
the schools and therefore the assessee cannot be said to have fulfilled the
second ingredient of the definition of franchise (prior to 16.6.2005). In
our analysis, the adjudicating authority in the abovementioned paragraphs
while setting out the contentions of the assessee concluded nevertheless that
the second ingredient of franchise is also fulfilled. The adjudicating
authority concluded that in order to internalise the know-how expertise etc.
of the assessee into the enterprise (the schools), a regular engagement of the
assessee with the enterprise is essential and such engagement is not
inconsistent with the provision of franchise service, in so far as the second
ingredient thereof is concerned. In our considered view, the extent of
engagement of the assessee with the enterprise (school) as provided by the
terms of the agreement is in furtherance of effective execution of the
franchise service provided by it and would not tantamount to the assessee
being a joint venturer with the other parties to the agreements. The several
decisions referred to by Shri Sahu, in the circumstances do not apply to the
facts and circumstances of the present appeals.
On a careful analysis of the transactions engendered pursuant to the
agreements between the assessee and other parties, we are of the considered
view that these fall more appropriately and clearly within the framework of
the taxable franchise service rather than the other, namely IPS. Pursuant to
the agreements in issue there is not a mere temporal transfer or permitting of
the use or enjoyment of IPR, as defined in Section 65(55a). There is a raft
and bouquet of other services provided by the assessee (apart from a mere
temporal transfer of intangible property, even assuming that permitting the
other party to use the assessees name (IPS), motto and logo, constitute
transfer of intangible property). Under the agreements, the assessee provides
its established concepts of business; operational expertise in establishing
and administering English Medium Schools; standards of academic quality and
the assessee undertakes to supervise, evaluate and mandate academic and other
activities of the School through periodic deputing of visiting teams, ensuring
that reports of findings of such teams are considered and adopted by the
school and the staff. The terms of the relevant agreements considered
holistically bring the transactions more wholesomely within the fold of
franchise service rather than IPS. The essential character of the services
provided by the assessee fall overwhelmingly within franchise service. We
are compelled to the conclusion that the services provided by the assessee do
not fall within IPS since except the temporal permitting of the use or
enjoinment of the assessees intangible property (in its name/ motto/ logo),
other services performed under the agreements are outside the purview of IPS.
The temporary permission to use or enjoy the assessees intangible property
right in its name/ motto/ logo also falls within franchise service as an
ingredient thereof; and the agreements fulfil the other requirements of
franchise service as well, in a more comprehensive sense, than in the case of
IPS.
It may also be noticed that in accordance with the interpretive principles for
classification of services set out in Section 65A of the Act, where composite
services consisting of a combination of different services which cannot be
classified in the manner specified in clause (a) are in issue, these are
required to be classified as if they consisted of a service which gives them
their essential character, in so far as this criterion is applicable.
Considered on the touchstone of this principle, the raft of services provided
by the assessee under the several agreements, in their essential character
fall within franchise service.
On the aforesaid analysis we hold against the assessee on issue C. Since the
aspects for determination set out as Issue D are dovetailed into our
analysis on issue C, answered as above, issue D is also answered against
the assessee and in favour of Revenue.
21\. Issues E and F: These issues can conveniently be analysed together.
Issue E is whether the adjudication orders, invoking the extended period of
limitation, to the extent extended period was invoked, are unsustainable.
Issue F is whether imposition of penalty is unsustainable since the assessee
failed to remit service tax on account of an asserted bonafide belief that
there was no liability to do so, predicated upon a bonafide interpretation of
the relevant provisions of the Act.
(i) Invocation of extended period for assessments: By an order dated
17.04.2009, we directed the assessee to file a date chart in support of its
contention that Revenue was in correspondence with it since 08.08.2003; had
issued a summons on 30.12.2003 and the assessee had furnished the requisite
information from time to time thereafter; nevertheless the earliest show cause
notice was issued on 24.01.2006. Revenue was also directed, to prepare a date
chart and requisition the adjudication record from the office of the
Commissioner, and to submit the same by 05.05.2009. On 27.04.2009 the assessee
submitted a list of correspondence between Revenue and assesse, pertaining to
the issues under these appeals.
The Commissioner (ST), New Delhi has filed an affidavit setting out dates on
which the assessee was asked to obtain registration; response of the assessee
thereto; dates of issue of summons directing to furnish the relevant
agreements and amounts received w.e.f. 01.07.2003; the response of the
assessee thereto; further summons issued to the assessee; the letter of the
assessee dated 15.01.2004 enclosing copies of agreements since 01.07.2003 and
details of amounts received from 01.07.2003 to 15.01.2004; departments
letters to the assessee intimating that the information furnished was
incomplete and the assessee should furnish details of amounts received since
January 2004 to March 2004; stating that the assessee furnished statements of
amounts received during January 2004 to March 2004 and copies of agreements,
by its letter dated 12.07.2004; subsequent correspondence including pertaining
to the assessee furnishing details of maintenance charges etc. received during
2003-04 and 2004-05, vide its letter dated 19.04.2005, etc. Responding to the
affidavit by Revenue (dated 30.07.2009), the assessee filed an affidavit in
response dated 03.08.2009, contesting the assertions in Revenues affidavit
and pleading that in response to the summons dated 26.03.2003 and 30.12.2003
it furnished all the requisitioned information, by its letter dated 15.01.2004
and stating that even in his letter dated 11.06.2004, the Superintendent (ST)
did not complain that information furnished by the assessee was incomplete; he
only sought information regarding subsequent periods and copies of fresh
agreements if any. According to the assessee it furnished all the relevant
information from time to time and repeatedly. It did so on 15.01.2004,
12.07.2004 and 11.11.2004 and on 19.04.2005 as well. The assessee reiterated
that since the department had full knowledge of its activities ever since
January 2004, there was no justification for invocation of the extended period
of limitation.
It requires to be noticed that in response to the summons dated 30.12.2003,
the assessee by its letter dated 15.01.2004 had furnished copies of the
operational agreements; details of amounts received pursuant to the enclosed
agreements, from 01.07.2003 till the date of the letter; names of its nominees
on the Boards of Management of the Schools established; and stated that no
consideration was received by any of the nominated members and therefore there
was no question of any such amounts being passed on to it by its nominees. By
a further letter dated 12.07.2004 the assessee, responding to the notice dated
02.07.2004 furnished statements of amounts received during January 2004 to
31.03.2004 and copies of agreements entered into by it with Maharaja Hari
Singh Social & Educational Foundation, Leh; and with Shyam Behari Memorial
Charitable Trust, Kanpur;
In response the notice dated 8.8.2003 and the later summons dated 30.12.2003,
the assessee by its letter dated 15.1.2004 had enclosed and furnished copies
of the several agreements entered into with other parties, for establishing
schools, details of amounts received pursuant to such agreements during the
period 1.1.2003 up to date; names of its nominees of the Boards of management
of schools established and also clarified that since no consideration was
received by its nominees there was no question of any such consideration
passed on to itself. Pursuant to other letters dated 11.6.2004 and 2.7.2004
addressed by Revenue, the assessee by its letter dated 12.7.2004 furnished
statements of amounts received during January 2004 to 31.3.2004; and copies of
agreement with the Maharaja Social Educational Foundation, Leh and Shyam
Behari Memorial Charitable Trust, Kanpur. The show cause notice ( dated
24.1.2006) admits that the assessee on 15.1.2004 had furnished
documents/records namely, copies of agreements and details of money received
apart from the names of its nominees. The show cause notice also admits that
the assessee on 12.7.2004 had submitted details regarding amounts received
during January 2004 to 31.3.2004 and copies of agreement with two
institutions.
These materials admittedly furnished by the assessee, even by 15.01.2004 were
sufficient for Revenue to have clearly identified the liability of the
assessee to tax, for the taxable Franchise service. The assessee had
consistently asserted the position, including before this Tribunal, that it
was not liable to tax since the transactions under the several agreements do
not constitute the taxable, franchise service. The assessee had suppressed
no relevant information and had provided information which was requisitioned
by the Department. It is incomprehensible why the Department again on
2.11.2004 called upon the assessee to provide a list of agreements entered
into various parties nor is it apparent why the Department was persisting in
issuing a clarification to the assessee as to its liability to pay service tax
from 01.04.2003, vide its letters dated 29.11.2004 and 2.12.2004. It is also
not clear why another summons dated 31.1.2005 was issued to submit the
requisite documents regarding registration of the assessee and details of
service tax paid by it.
Shri Sahu has also referred to a letter dated 29.9.2004 addressed by the
Additional Commissioner (CCU) to the Commissioner (ST), Delhi with a copy
marked to the C.C.E., Rohtak and Panchkula to the effect that the agreement
between the assessee and MP Singh Foundation (one of the agreements) does not
constitute franchise and there is no service tax liability. While nothing
significant pertaining to the assessees tax liability turns upon this letter,
it may be indicative of the fact that a section of the department also
entertained doubts about taxability of the transactions in issue as franchise
service . Suffice it to observe that since the Department had sufficient
information by 15.1.2004 and at any rate by 12.7.2004, to conclude that the
assessee had provided the taxable franchise service, there appears no
justification for having failed to proceed with the assessment. The Department
had ample powers in particular under Section 72 and other relevant provisions
of the Act and of the Service Tax Rules, 1994 to initiate proceedings towards
assessment.
The Supreme Court in Uniworth Textiles Ltd. vs. C.C.E., Raipur27, after a
detailed analysis of existing precedents in the area summarised the principles
justifying invocation of the extended period of limitation. The Court pointed
out that misstatement or suppression of facts must be associated with wilful
intention and that contravention of any provisions of the Act or the Rules
must be with the associated intent to evade payment of tax; Where this mental
element is alleged and established, only then would invocation of the extended
period of limitation be justified. The material on record discloses that the
assessee had furnished the information requisite for the Department to have
initiated proceedings, by 15.1.2004 and 12.7.2004. Nevertheless, the first
show cause notice was issued on 24.1.2006 (in respect of the period 1.7.2003
to 31.3.2005, the subject matter of ST Appeal No. 248/2006). Subsequent show
cause notices were issued on 04.11.2008 for the period 01.04.2007 to
31.03.2008 and on 05.10.2009 for the period 01.04.2008 to 31.03.2009.
As pointed in Tecumseh Products India Ltd. vs. C.C.E., Hyderabad 28; in
Fedders Lloyd Corporation Pvt. Ltd. vs. C.C.E., New Delhi29 and in Modipon
Fibre Company vs. C.CE.. Meerut30, apart from the decision of the apex Court
in Uniworth Textiles Ltd., the extended period of limitation could not be
invoked when there is a bona fide dispute between the parties in regard to
issues as to tax liability; where the department was aware of the essential
ingredients of the transactions on which liability to tax could be determined;
and no suppression could be inferred when the assesee had categorically
sensitized the Department as to the relevant facts on which a view could have
been taken as to the liability to tax. In Nizam Sugar Factory vs. C.C.E.
A.P.31, Supreme Court clearly pointed out that suppression of facts cannot be
alleged in each subsequent show cause notice, when the first show cause notice
was issued and relevant facts were within the knowledge of the authorities;
and that the same or /similar facts could not be urged to constitute
suppression of facts on the part of the assessee, de novo.
22\. Conclusions:
> On the aforesaid analysis we conclude that on the point of limitation, the
> following orders of assessment are partly unsustainable (as indicated ):
    (a)      The adjudication order dated 30.3.2006 (ST Appeal No.248/2006) is barred by limitation,  in so far as the period 1.7.2003 to 30.9.2004 is concerned;
    (b)	The adjudication order dated 23.2.2009 (ST Appeal No.415/2009) is unsustainable, for  invocation of the extended period of the limitation,  in respect of  the period  1.4.2007 to 30.9.2007;
(c ) As regards the adjudication order dated 30.06.2010 (pertaining to ST
Appeal No.1356 of 2010) the show cause notice dated 05.10.2009, was issued on
09.10.2009 by Commissioner, demanding service tax for 01.04.2008 to
31.03.2009. Since the ST-3 return for the period 01.04.2008 to 30.09.2008 is
to be filed by 25.10.2008, the show cause notice having been issued within one
year from the relevant date [vide Section 73(6)], is within the normal period
of limitation. As regards the contention, that the corrigendum to the show
cause notice was issued on 16.12.2009 beyond the normal limitation period and
is hence time barred, we notice that by the corrigendum only arithmetic
recomputation of the alleged liability was conveyed and there was no fresh
attribution of fact or law against the assessee. As such the corrigendum does
not substantially alter the framework of the show cause notice dated
05.10.2009/09.10.2009. We therefore reject this contention of the appellant
and conclude that this demand is not barred by limitation nor is illegal for
unwarranted invocation of the extended period, under the proviso to Section
73(1) of the Act.
The extent of the liability of the assessee to service tax, within the normal
period of limitation under Section 73(1) of the Act (not the proviso
thereunder) in respect of ST Appeal Nos.248/2006 and 415/2009 is required to
be remitted to the adjudicating authority for de novo computation of the
liability.
Issue E is answered as above.
In so far as Issue F is concerned (relating to validity of the imposition of
penalty), we find no reason to interfere with imposition of penalties under
Sections 76 and 77 of the Act. Consistent with our conclusions on Issue E, the
imposition of penalties under Section 78 of the Act cannot however be
sustained. We however find no justification for a generic invocation of the
provisions of Section 80 of the Act to eschew levy and collection of penalties
under Sections 76 and 77 of the Act.
Issue F is answered accordingly.
23\. Result :
On the aforesaid analysis and for the reasons recorded (supra), we declare and
hold:
a) that the assessee had provided the taxable franchise service during
1.7.2003 to 30.9.2008, both under the pre-amended and post-amended definition
of franchise, defined in Section 65 (47) of the Act;
(b) the Adjudication orders, which are the subject matter of ST Appeal Nos.
248/2006 and 415/2009 are partly unsustainable in so far as the assessed
liability to service tax pertains to the respective periods outside the normal
period of limitation, as indicated in our analysis on Issue E (supra);
(c) ST Appeal Nos. 335/2008 and 1356/2010 are partly allowed, only to the
extent of penalty imposed under Section 78 of the Act;
(d) The quantum of tax and the penalties imposed under Sections 76 and 77 as
adjudicated, are confirmed;
(e) in the light of our conclusions above, ST Appeal No.248/2006 and 415/2009
are partly allowed (to the extent of tax, interest and penalties assessed for
periods beyond the normal period of limitation and;
(f) all the adjudication orders (subject matter of the four (4) appeals) are
remitted for re-computation of the liability to tax and/ or penalties as the
case may be, relevant to the normal period of limitation and in relation to
the tax liability upheld herein, to the adjudication authority as indicated
above, for determination of the liability to tax, interest and penalties
(under Section 76 & 77 but not under Section 78), in conformity with the
judgement.
24\. Appeals are allowed as above but in the circumstances, without costs.
iHi (Pronounced in the Court on 19 /07/ 2013).
(Justice G. Raghuram) President (Sahab Singh) Technical Member Pant 1 2007(7)
STR.55(Tri-Chennai).
2 2006(3)STR.711 (Tri-Mumbai).
3 2008(12)STR.174 (Tri-Bang).
4 AIR.1964.SC1389.
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
\------------------------------------------------------------
\---------------
\------------------------------------------------------------
45
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 11/RK/2006  dated 30.03.2006  passed by the Commissioner, Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
AND Service Tax Appeal No. 335 of 2008 Arising out of the Order in Original
No. 21 & 22/VKG/CST/2008 dated 18.02.2008 passed by the Commissioner of
Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 415 of 2009
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 09/VKG/CST/29 dated 23.02.2009 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 1356 of 2010
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 30 - 31/RDN/10 dated 30.06.2010 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 11/RK/2006  dated 30.03.2006  passed by the Commissioner, Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
AND Service Tax Appeal No. 335 of 2008 Arising out of the Order in Original
No. 21 & 22/VKG/CST/2008 dated 18.02.2008 passed by the Commissioner of
Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 415 of 2009
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 09/VKG/CST/29 dated 23.02.2009 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 1356 of 2010
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 30 - 31/RDN/10 dated 30.06.2010 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 11/RK/2006  dated 30.03.2006  passed by the Commissioner, Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
AND Service Tax Appeal No. 335 of 2008 Arising out of the Order in Original
No. 21 & 22/VKG/CST/2008 dated 18.02.2008 passed by the Commissioner of
Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 415 of 2009
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 09/VKG/CST/29 dated 23.02.2009 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 1356 of 2010
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 30 - 31/RDN/10 dated 30.06.2010 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    Appearance:	 	Shri P.K. Sahu and Sh. Prashant Shukla,  Advocates 
    				for the appellant. 
                     		Shri  Amresh Jain, DR  for the Revenue-Respondent
    Coram:	Honble Mr. Justice G. Raghuram, President
    				Honble Mr. Sahab Singh, Technical Member
    			Final Order No..57036-57039/2013
    Per  Justice G. Raghuram:
          Delhi Public School Society (the assessee) is the common appellant in the appeals before us. It has established and manages several schools in Delhi and elsewhere in India and abroad under the title Delhi Public School (DPS). 
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
    Service Tax Misc. Application No. 3441 of 2012
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 11/RK/2006  dated 30.03.2006  passed by the Commissioner, Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
AND Service Tax Appeal No. 335 of 2008 Arising out of the Order in Original
No. 21 & 22/VKG/CST/2008 dated 18.02.2008 passed by the Commissioner of
Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 415 of 2009
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 09/VKG/CST/29 dated 23.02.2009 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    AND
    		Service Tax Appeal No. 1356 of 2010
    Arising out of the Order in Original No. 30 - 31/RDN/10 dated 30.06.2010 passed by the Commissioner of  Service Tax, New Delhi.
    The Delhi Public School Society				Appellant
    Vs.
    CST, New Delhi						Respondent
    Appearance:	 	Shri P.K. Sahu and Sh. Prashant Shukla,  Advocates 
    				for the appellant. 
                     		Shri  Amresh Jain, DR  for the Revenue-Respondent
    Coram:	Honble Mr. Justice G. Raghuram, President
    				Honble Mr. Sahab Singh, Technical Member
    			Final Order No..57036-57039/2013
    Per  Justice G. Raghuram:
          Delhi Public School Society (the assessee) is the common appellant in the appeals before us. It has established and manages several schools in Delhi and elsewhere in India and abroad under the title Delhi Public School (DPS). 
5 (2006) EWHC.111(Ch).
6 2008(12)STR.401 (SC).
7 (1995)1.SCC.478.
8 AIR. 1959. SC.24 9 (1977) 1.SCC.17 10 (1848) 11.QB.852 11 (2000) 2. Lloyds
Rep.611.
12 (1998) 1. All.E.R. 98 13 2000 NZCA.350 14 1997) ALL ER 352).
15 (1984) 3 ALL ER 229 at 233, (1985) AC 191 at 201 16 Wigmore on Evidence 
1981-vol.9, para.2461.
17 Kim Levison  The Interpretation of Contracts, Sweet and Maxwell, (1989).
18 (1988). 1.Lloyds Rep.574.
19 (1967) 63 ITR 232 SC 20 (1993) 201 ITR 674(Karn.) 21 (1993) 202 ITR .I 8
(Bom.) 22 (1960) 39 ITR 546 (SC) 23 (1997) 106 STC 214 (SC) 24 2005 (183) ELT
225 SC 25 1999 (113) ELT 24 (SC) 26 (1997) 10 SCC 379 SC 27 2013 (228)ELT 161
(SC) 28 2004 (167) ELT 498 (SC) 29 2002 (19) ELT 1426 (Tri-Delhi) 30 2007
(218) ELT 8(SC) 31 2006 (190) ELT 465 (SC)
\---------------
