Gujarat High Court
Commissioner Of Income-Tax vs Chandulal Venichand on 29 January, 1994
Equivalent citations: 1994 209 ITR 7 Guj
Author: M Shah
Bench: M Shah, R Abichandani
JUDGMENT M.B. Shah, J.
1\. The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal has referred the following question for
our opinion under section 256(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as "the Act") :
"1. Whether the Appellate Tribunal is right in law and on facts in holding
that as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last quarter was
concerned, the said liability would be allowable as deduction for the
assessment years 1984-85 to 1987-88 provided the assessee establishes that the
liability was discharged by actual payment before the date applicable in his
case for furnishing the return of income under section 139(1) in respect of
the relevant previous year in which the liability had been incurred?"
2\. A similar question is referred in a number of other subsequent matters.
For the purpose of this reference, we take the facts from the order passed by
the Tribunal. The assessee, Messrs. Chandulal Venichand, filed a return of
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
assessment proceedings, it was noticed that sales tax liability of the
assessee was Rs. 4,18,302 (Rs. 3,80,272, sales tax liability + Rs. 38,030,
surcharge). After drawing the attention of the assessee, the said amount was
added in the total income of the assessee in view of section 43B of the Act
and the assessee was directed to pay tax on the income of Rs. 4,63,100.
Against that order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner
of Income-tax. That appeal was partly allowed. However, the contention raised
by the assessee that Rs. 4,18,302 representing unpaid sales tax liability
should not be included under section 43B of the Act was rejected. Against that
order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal
heard the said appeal along with two other appeals wherein the question of
interpretation of section 43B of the Act was involved. It was pointed out to
the Tribunal that all the three assessees were maintaining accounts on the
mercantile basis. All of them have separate sales tax accounts in which sales
tax deducted from the parties is credited and sales tax paid to the Government
is debited and the balance amount is taken directly to the balance-sheet and
is not taken to the profit and loss account. After considering the various
contentions raised by the parties and the decisions cited at that Bar, the
Tribunal held that, as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last
quarter was concerned, the said liability would be an allowable deduction for
the assessment years 1984-85 to 1987-88 provided the assessee establishes that
the liability was discharged by actual payment before the due date applicable
in his case for furnishing the return of income under section 139(1) in
respect of the relevant previous years in which the liability had been
incurred. The Tribunal negatived the contention of the Revenue that the
proviso to section 43B of the Act should not be given any retrospective effect
and that the Tribunal should follow the decision of the Special Bench of the
Income-tax Appellate Tribunal at Delhi in the case of Rishi Roop Chemical Co.
(P.) Ltd. v. ITO [1991] 36 ITD 35 (SB), by holding that the Ahmedabad Bench
has consistently taken the view that, if the assessee has paid the amount in
question before the due date applicable in his case for furnishing the return
of income under section 139(1) of the Act, the deduction in respect of the
liability should be allowed and the bar contained in section 43B would not be
applicable. The Tribunal further observed that various other High Courts have
also taken the same view. Hence, at instance of the Revenue, this reference.
3\. For appreciating the contentions raised by the parties, it would be
necessary to refer to the provisions of section 43B which are as under :
"43B. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, a
deduction otherwise allowable under this Act in respect of, -
(a) any sum payable by the assessee by way of tax, duty, cess or fee, by
whatever name called, under any law for the time being in force, or
(b) any sum payable by the assessee as an employer by way of contribution to
any provident fund or superannuation fund or gratuity fund or any other fund
for the welfare of employees, or
(c) any sum referred to in clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of section 36, or
(d) any sum payable by the assessee as interest on any loan or borrowing from
any public financial institution or a State Financial Corporation or a State
Industrial Investment Corporation, in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the agreement governing such loan or borrowing, shall be allowed
(irrespective of the previous year in which the liability to pay such sum was
incurred by the assessee according to the method of accounting regularly
employed by him) only in computing the income referred to in section 28 of
that previous year in which such sum is actually paid by him :
Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply in relation to any
sum referred to in clause (a) or clause (c) or clause (d) which is actually
paid by the assessee on or before the due date applicable in his case for
furnishing the return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139 in
respect of the previous year in which the liability to pay such sums was
incurred as aforesaid and the evidence of such payment is furnished by the
assessee along with such return :
Provided further that no deduction shall, in respect of any sum referred to in
clause (b), be allowed unless such sum has actually been paid in cash or by
issue of a cheque or draft or by any other mode on or before the due date as
defined in the Explanation below clause (va) of sub-section (1) of section 36,
and where such payment has been made otherwise than in cash, the sum has been
realised within fifteen days from the due date.
Explanation 1. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where a
deduction in respect of any sum referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of
this section is allowed in computing the income referred to in section 28 of
the previous year (being a previous year relevant to the assessment year
commencing on April 1, 1983, or any earlier assessment year) in which the
liability to pay such sum was incurred by the assessee, the assessee shall not
be entitled to any deduction under this section in respect of such sum in
computing the income of the previous year in which the sum is actually paid by
him.
Explanation 2. - For the purposes of clause (a), as in force at all material
times, 'any sum payable' means a sum for which the assessee incurred liability
in the previous year even though such sum might not have been payable within
that year under the relevant law.
Explanation 3. - For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that where a
deduction in respect of any sum referred to in clause (c) or clause (d) of
this section is allowed in computing the income referred to in section 28 of
the previous year (being a previous year relevant to the [assessment year
commencing on April 1, 1988, or any earlier assessment] year) in which the
liability to pay such sum was incurred by the assessee, the assessee shall not
be entitled to any deduction under this section in respect of such sum in
computing the income of the previous year in which the sum is actually paid by
him.
Explanation 4. -....."
4\. The object and purpose of inserting the said section 43B of the Act, as
per the Budget Speech of the Finance Minister for the year 1983-84, which are
reproduced in [1983] 140 ITR (St.) 31, are as under :
"Several cases have come to notice where taxpayers do not discharge their
statutory liability such as in respect of excise duty, employer's contribution
to provident fund, Employee's State Insurance Scheme, for long periods of
time. For the purpose of their income-tax assessments, they none the less
claim the liability as deduction even as they take resort to legal action,
thus depriving the Government of its dues while enjoying the benefit of non-
payment. To curb such practices, I propose to provide that irrespective of the
method of accounting followed by the taxpayer, a statutory liability will be
allowed as a deduction in computing the taxable profits only in the year and
to the extent it is actually paid."
5\. The relevant portion of the Memorandum explaining the provisions in the
Finance Bill, 1983, appearing in [1983] 140 ITR (St.) 160, is as under :
"59. Under the Income-tax Act, profits and gains of business and profession
are computed in accordance with the method of accounting regularly employed by
the assessee. Broadly stated, under the mercantile system of accounting,
income and outgo are accounted for on the basis of accrual and not on the
basis of actual disbursements or receipts. For the purposes of computation of
profits and gains of business and profession, the Income-tax Act defines the
word 'paid' to mean 'actually paid or incurred' according to the method of
accounting on the basis of which the profits or gains are computed.
60\. Several cases have come to notice where taxpayers do not discharge their
statutory liability such as in respect of excise duty, employer's contribution
to provident fund, Employees' State Insurance Scheme, etc., for long periods
of time, extending sometimes to several years. For the purpose of their
income-tax assessments, they claim the liability as deduction on the ground
that they maintain accounts on mercantile or accrual basis. On the other hand
they dispute the liability and do not discharge the same. For some reason or
the other, undisputed liabilities also are not paid. To curb this practice, it
is proposed to provide that deduction for any sum payable by the assessee by
way of tax or duty under any law for the time being in force (irrespective of
whether such tax or duty is disputed or not) or any sum payable by the
assessee as an employer by way of contribution to any provident fund, or
superannuation fund or gratuity fund or any other fund for the welfare of
employees shall be allowed only in computing the income of that previous year
in which such sum is actually paid by him."
6\. From the aforesaid objects and reasons, it is apparent that, even if the
assessee is maintaining the mercantile accounting system to curb the practice
of non-payment of undisputed tax and to claim deduction, section 43B was
introduced so that deduction for any sum payable by the assessee by way of tax
or duty under any law for the time being in force shall be allowed in
computing the income only of that previous year in which such sum is actually
paid by him.
7\. By the Finance Act, 1987, two provisos to section 43B were inserted with
effect from April 1, 1988. It is submitted that the first proviso is inserted
to mitigate the hardship caused to the taxpayers because the sales tax for the
last quarter cannot be paid during the previous year and under the provisions
of section 43B, unnecessarily payment of sales tax for the last quarter was
disallowed.
8\. After the insertion of the aforesaid two provisos, by the Finance Act,
1989, Explanation 2 was inserted with retrospective effect from April 1, 1984.
In the Memorandum explaining the reasons for introducing the said Explanation,
it has been, inter alia, stated as under (vide [1989] 176 ITR (St.) 123) :
"24. Under the existing provisions of section 43B of the Income-tax Act, a
deduction for any sum payable by way of tax duty, cess or fee, etc., is
allowed on actual payment basis only. The objective behind these provisions is
to provide for a tax disincentive by denying deduction in respect of a
statutory liability which is not paid in time. The Finance Act, 1987, inserted
a proviso to section 43B to provide that any sum payable by way of tax or
duty, etc., liability for which was incurred in the previous year will be
allowed as a deduction, if it is actually paid by the due date of furnishing
the return under section 139(1) of the Income-tax Act, in respect of the
assessment year to which the aforesaid previous year relates. This proviso was
introduced to remove the hardship caused to certain taxpayers who had
represented that since the sales tax for the last quarter cannot be paid
within that previous year, the original provisions of section 43B will
unnecessarily involve disallowance of the payment for the last quarter.
Certain courts have interpreted the provisions of section 43B in a manner
which may negate the very operation of this section. The interpretation given
by these courts revolves around the use of the words 'any sum payable'. The
interpretation given to these words is that the amount payable in a particular
year should also be statutorily payable under the relevant statute in the same
year. This is against the legislative intent and it is, therefore, proposed,
by way of a clarificatory amendment and for removal of doubts, that the words
'any sum payable' be defined to mean any sum, liability for which has been
incurred by the taxpayer during the previous year irrespective of the date by
which such sum is statutorily payable.
This amendment will take effect from April 1, 1984.
Under the existing provisions of section 43B of the Income-tax Act, it is also
provided that any sum payable by the assessee as an employer by way of
contribution to the provident fund or superannuation fund, etc., is not
allowable as a deduction unless the same is paid 'during the previous year on
or before the due date'. The payment in respect of the last month of a
previous year shall have to be made by the due date and cannot possibly be
made in the previous year itself. It is, therefore, proposed that the words
'during the previous year' occurring in the second proviso to section 43B be
deleted.
This amendment will take effect from April 1, 1989.
Unlike other payments referred to in section 43B of the Income-tax Act, the
deduction regarding employer's contribution, if denied in a year, is not
available as a deduction in any subsequent year also. On account of various
reasons like postal delay, strikes or long holidays, the payment of employer's
contributions to the respective authorities is delayed even though the payment
by a cheque or draft is tendered before the due date. To avoid any hardship
being caused in such cases, it is proposed to provide that, if any sum payable
by an employer by way of contribution to any provident fund or superannuation
fund or gratuity fund or any other fund for the welfare of employees, if made
by a cheque, draft or any other mode, has been tendered by the due date, and
the actual payment has been realised within fifteen days of the due date,
deduction shall be allowed.
This amendment will take effect from April 1, 1989, and will, accordingly,
apply in relation to the assessment year 1989-90 and subsequent years."
9\. Apart from the objects and reasons stated above, the scope and effect of
the amendment have been elaborated by the Departmental Circular No. 550 dated
January 1, 1990, as under (see [1990] 182 ITR (St.) 114, 123) :
"AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN DEDUCTIONS TO BE ALLOWED ONLY ON
ACTUAL PAYMENT :
15.1 Under the existing provisions of section 43B of the Income-tax Act, 1961,
a deduction for any sum payable by way of tax, duty, cess or fee, etc., is
allowed on actual payment basis only. The objective behind these provisions is
to provide for a tax disincentive by denying deduction in respect of a
'statutory liability' which is not paid in time. The Finance Act, 1987,
inserted a proviso to section 43B to provide that any sum payable by way of
tax or duty, etc., liability for which was incurred in the previous year will
be allowed as a deduction, if it is actually paid by the due date of
furnishing the return under section 139(1) of the Income-tax Act, in respect
of the assessment year to which the aforesaid previous year relates. This
proviso was introduced to remove the hardship caused to certain taxpayers who
had represented that since the sales tax for the last quarter cannot be paid
within the previous year, the original provisions of section 43B will
unnecessarily involve disallowance of the payment for the last quarter.
15.2 Certain courts have interpreted the provisions of section 43B in a manner
which may negate the very operation of this section. The interpretation given
by these courts revolves around the use of the words 'any sum payable'. The
interpretation given to these words is that the amount payable in a particular
year should also be statutorily payable under the relevant statute in the same
year. Thus, the sales tax in respect of sales made in the last quarter was
held to be totally outside the purview of section 43B since the same is not
statutorily payable in the financial year to which it relates. This is against
the legislative intent and, therefore, by way of inserting an Explanation, it
has been clarified that the words 'any sum payable' shall mean any sum,
liability for which has been incurred by the taxpayer during the previous year
irrespective of the date by which such sum is statutorily payable...."
10\. From the aforesaid objects and reasons for introducing section 43B of the
Act and the proviso as well as from the aforesaid circular issued by the
Department, it can be stated that :
(A) The objective behind these provisions is to provide for a tax disincentive
by denying deduction in respect of a statutory liability which is not paid
within time.
(i) Broadly stated, under the mercantile system of accounting, income and
outgoings are accounted for on the basis of accrual and not on the basis of
actual disbursements or receipts.
(ii) Several cases were noticed where taxpayers were not discharging their
statutory liability such as in respect of sales tax, excise duty, etc.
(iii) For the purpose of their income-tax assessments, they were claiming
deduction in respect of the liability on the ground that they maintain
accounts on the mercantile basis. They claimed deduction even though they were
taking resort to legal action and not paying the amount, thus depriving the
Government of its dues while enjoying the benefit of non-payment.
(iv) To curb this practice, section 43B was introduced and it provides that
deduction for any sum payable by the assessee by way of tax or duty under any
law for the time being in force, otherwise allowable as provided in clauses
(a), (b), (c) and (d), shall be allowed only in computing the income of that
previous year in which such sum is actually paid.
(B) The proviso was introduced to remove the hardship caused to taxpayers who
had represented that because the sales tax for the last quarter cannot be paid
within the previous year and that the provisions of section 43B will
unnecessarily involve disallowance of the payment for the last quarter. Hence,
it was added for the purpose of supplying an obvious omission.
(i) In the context of section 43B, it is declaratory in its nature as it
provides that nothing contained in section 43B shall apply in relation to any
sum referred to in clause (a), (c) or (d) which is actually paid by the
assessee on or before the due date applicable in his case for furnishing the
return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139.
(ii) Explanation 2 was added as certain courts have interpreted the provisions
of section 43B in a manner which may negate the very operation of the section.
11\. We would now refer to the contentions raised by learned counsel for the
parties. Mr. Shelat, learned counsel for the Revenue, contended as under :
(a) Parliament has taken care to categorically mention that the proviso was to
come into force with effect from April 1, 1988. Therefore, there is no
question of giving retrospective effect, as the date is specified consciously
by the Legislature;
(b) The first proviso is neither clarificatory nor explanatory nor
declaratory. Original section 43B is clear and unambiguous. However, the
proviso was inserted by way of concession by extending the time for payment of
tax even beyond the period of the assessment year to mitigate the hardship
caused in the last quarter of the previous year. But from this, it cannot be
held it is declaratory or a remedial one;
(c) Wherever Parliament intended to give retrospective effect, it has done so.
It is clear from the fact that Explanation 2 was given retrospective effect
from April 1, 1984, even though it is introduced by the Finance Act, 1989,
while for the first proviso, it is specifically stated that it shall come into
effect from April 1, 1988 ; and
(d) The normal rule of construction is that the substantial provision in a
statute would have prospective effect and no retrospective effect. The first
proviso is of substantive nature and not in the nature of an explanation to
section 43B as it gives a concession by extending the period for payment of
tax for the last quarter of the previous year by a few weeks.
12\. In support of his contention, Mr. Shelat, learned counsel for the
Revenue, has relied upon the decisions of the Delhi High Court in the case of
Sanghi Motors v. Union of India [1991] 187 ITR 703 and in the case of Escorts
Ltd. v. Union of India [1991] 189 ITR 81.
13\. As against this, Mr. Shah, learned counsel for the assessee, has
submitted as under :
(a) The first proviso is a remedial one as it cures the inadvertent mistake
which has crept in (or cures a disease because of inept language used in
section 43B) and, therefore, it would have retrospective effect from the date
when section 43B was introduced. Section 43B was introduced to curb the
practice of some of the taxpayers who were not discharging the undisputed tax
liabilities, even though they were getting deduction by maintaining the
accounts on mercantile basis. Without there being any intention on the part of
the Legislature not to allow deduction to those assessees who were discharging
their tax liabilities within the time prescribed under the respective State
sales tax laws, because of inept language used in section 43B, the assessees
were put to a lost of inconvenience by the literal interpretation of section
43B that the amount ought to have been actually paid during the year in which
the liability was incurred. Therefore, to obviate this hardship, the first
proviso was introduced as a remedial and curative measure.
(b) The first proviso is required to be introduced as a declaratory or
remedial measure mainly because it was not possible to imagine that the
Legislature would think that the assessee shall perform the impossible task of
paying tax for discharging the sales tax liability for the last quarter ending
March 31 of that year. It is contended that it is a well-recognised rule of
construction that the statutory provision must be construed, if possible, in
such a manner so as to avoid absurdity and unjust result which could never
have been intended by the Legislature. If it is held that the first proviso is
operative only with effect from April 1, 1988, then the remedy provided by
Parliament to cure the disease would be frustrated and the assessee would
suffer an irreparable loss, which was never contemplated by the draftsmen of
section 43B or of the proviso, and that too for no fault of the assessee. It
is contended that it is a well-settled rule of interpretation that courts
should as far as possible avoid a construction which can attribute
irrationality to legislation. For this purpose, he relied upon various
passages from the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of K. P. Varghese
v. ITO [1981] 131 ITR 597.
(c) Most of the High Courts have taken a view in favour of the assessee by
holding that the first proviso would be effective from April 1, 1984, and the
Tribunal in the State has consistently taken the said view since years. By
accepting the said view, the Revenue is not going to suffer any loss or that
the tax liability of the assessee would not in any way be less. As against
that, by accepting the contention raised by the Revenue, it would put the
assessee to great difficulty. For this purpose, he referred to the facts of
the present case and pointed out that the income of the assessee as per the
return is only Rs. 41,210 and the sales tax liability as calculated by the
Income-tax Officer is Rs. 4,18,302. If the assessee is required to pay income-
tax on the said amount, the assessee would be ruined because practically it
would be impossible for him to pay tax on the said amount. It was no fault of
the assessee that he paid sales tax amount as per the Gujarat Sales Tax Rules
within time, no doubt, after the previous year.
14\. As stated earlier, the objective behind section 43B was to provide for a
tax disincentive by denying deduction in respect of a "statutory liability"
which is not paid in time. Section 43B was not intended for disallowance of
amount of tax liability which has been paid within time prescribed under the
respective laws like the Sales Tax Act of the respective States. If the tax
liability is discharged within time as prescribed by the respective States
Sales Tax Act, then it was declared and clarified by adding the proviso that
section 43B shall not apply if the sum is actually paid on the before the date
on which the return of income is due to be furnished under sub-section (1) of
section 139 for the previous year, in which the liability to pay such sum was
incurred. This aspect was further clarified by adding Explanation 2 to section
43B. By virtue of Explanation 2 to section 43B, any sum payable by way of tax
under the relevant law would mean a sum for which liability is incurred by the
assessee in the previous year even though the sum might not have been payable
within that year under the relevant law. Explanation 2 and the first proviso
to section 43B are required to be read together. While introducing Explanation
2 by the Finance Act of 1989, the object of introducing the proviso is further
clarified by stating that it was introduced to remove the hardship caused to
certain taxpayers who had represented that since the sales tax for the last
quarter cannot be paid within the previous year, the original provision to
section 43B will unnecessarily involve disallowance of the payment for the
last quarter. Further, the first proviso itself declares that nothing
contained in section 43B shall apply in relation to any sum referred to in
clause (a), (c) or (d), which is actually paid by the assessee on or before
the due date applicable in his case for furnishing the return of income under
section 139(1) in respect of the previous year in which the liability to pay
such sum was incurred. Because of the non obstante clause in the proviso, it
has overriding effect on section 43B. Further, it is introduced by realising
the difficulty that it was impossible to pay the sum referred to in clause
(a), (c) or (d) during the year in which the liability to pay such sum was
incurred by the assessee. Hence, it is provided that, if the said sum is
actually paid by the assessee on or before the due date applicable in his case
for furnishing the return of income, then section 43B shall not be applicable.
Therefore, in our view, the provision is remedial and curative in nature to
correct the inadvertent omission. It is stated so by the Department by issuing
Circular No. 550 (see [1990] 182 ITR (St.) 114), as quoted above.
15\. Once it is held that the proviso is inserted as a remedial and curative
measure for removing the difficulties faced by the taxpayers because of
inadvertent mistake or omission which has crept in drafting section 43B, it
would be just and proper to hold that it would relate back to the date when
section 43B was introduced. This interpretation is not likely to cause any
loss to the Revenue. The interpretation that the proviso to section 43B is
effective only from April 1, 1988, would defeat the object and purpose of
introducing it. It would cause avoidable difficulties to the taxpayers who
discharged their liabilities within the permissible time. It can well be
illustrated from the facts of the present case. As per the return filed by the
assessee, the total income was Rs. 41,210. The sales tax liability for the
last quarter was Rs. 4,18,302. If the said amount is added in the total income
of the assessee, in view of section 43B of the Act, then the assessee would be
required to pay a large amount of tax. As per the calculation by the Income-
tax Officer, he has levied firm tax of Rs. 1,09,287 and the remaining amount
of tax as to be calculated on the basis of the shares of the partners. This
bound to cause untold hardship to the small taxpayers.
16\. For this purpose, in our view, Mr. Shah, learned counsel for the
assessee, has rightly relied upon the following passage from Craies on Statute
Law at page 395 :
"Where a statute is passed for the purpose of supplying an obvious omission in
a former statute, or as Parke J. (afterwards Baron Parke) said in R. v.
Dursley [1832] 3 B and Ad. 465, 469, 'to "explain" a former statute', the
subsequent statute has relation back to the time when the prior Act was
passed. Thus, in Attorney-General v. Pougett [1816] 2 Price 381, 392, it
appeared that by a Customs Act of 1873 (53 Geo. 3, c. 33) a duty was imposed
upon hides of 9s. 4d., but the Act omitted to state that it was to be 9s. 4d.
per cwt., and to remedy this omission another Customs Act (53 Geo. 3 c. 105)
was passed later in the same year. Between the passing of these two Acts some
hides were exported, and it was contended that they were not liable to pay the
duty of 9s. 4d. per cwt., but Thomson C. B., in giving judgment for the
Attorney-General, said : 'The duty in this instance was in fact imposed by the
first Act, but the gross mistake of the omission of the weight for which the
sum expressed was to have been payable occasioned the amendment made by the
subsequent Act, but that had reference to the former statute as soon as it
passed, and they must be taken together as if they were one and the same Act.'
17\. Where an Act is in its nature declaratory, the presumption against
construing it retrospectively is inapplicable. In Attorney-General v. Theobald
[1890] 24 QBD 557, section 11 of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1889, as
to the liability of voluntary settlements to stamp duty, was held
retrospective, although the litigation in which its terms were involved had
commenced before it was passed. Acts of this kind, like judgments, decide
similar cases pending when the judgments are given, but do not reopen decided
cases."
18\. From the aforesaid principles of interpretation, it can be stated that -
(a) where a "statute" is passed for the purpose of supplying an obvious
omission in a former statute, the subsequent statute would relate back to the
time when the prior Act was passed. In the present case, it can be held that
the first proviso was added for supplying an obvious omission in section 43B;
and
(b) where an Act is declaratory in its nature, the presumption against
construing it retrospectively is inapplicable. The proviso is declaratory in
its nature. It declares that nothing contained in section 43B shall apply in
relation to any sum referred to in clause (a), (c) or (d) which is actually
paid by the assessee on or before the due date applicable in his case for
furnishing the return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139 in
respect of the previous year in which the liability to pay such sum was
incurred.
19\. Further, it is an established law that like all laws tax laws are also
required to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice and as
far as possible they should be so interpreted that absurdity or mischief which
is likely to be caused, could be avoided. For this purpose, it would be
worthwhile to refer to the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in the
case of K. P. Varghese v. ITO [1981] 131 ITR 597, 604. In that case the court
has, inter alia, held as under :
"This argument was based on a strictly literal reading of section 52, sub-
section (2), but we do not think such a construction can be accepted. It
ignores several vital considerations which must always be borne in mind when
we are interpreting a statutory provision. The task of interpretation of a
statutory enactment is not a mechanical task. It is more than a mere reading
of mathematical formulae because few words possess the precision of
mathematical symbols. It is an attempt to discover the intent of the
Legislature from the language used by it and it must always be remembered that
language is at best an imperfect instrument for the expression of human
thought and, as pointed out by Lord Denning, it would be idle to expect every
statutory provision to be 'drafted with divine prescience and perfect
clarity'. We can do not better than repeat the famous words of judge Learned
Hand when he said :
'...... it is true that the words used, even in their literal sense, are the
primary and ordinarily the most reliable source of interpreting the meaning of
any writing : be it a statute, a contract or anything else. But it is one of
the surest indexes of a mature and developed jurisprudence not to make a
fortress out of the dictionary; but to remember that statutes always have some
purpose or object to accomplish, whose sympathetic and imaginative discovery
is the surest guide to their meaning.' We must not adopt a strictly literal
interpretation of section 52, sub-section (2), but we must construe its
language having regard to the object and purpose which the Legislature had in
view in enacting that provision and in the context of the setting in which it
occurs. We cannot ignore the context and the collocation of the provisions in
which section 52, sub-section (2), appears, because, as pointed out by judge
Learned Hand in the most felicitous language :
'...... the meaning of a sentence may be more than that of the separate words,
as a melody is more than the notes, and no agree of particularity can ever
obviate recourse to the setting in which all appear, and which all
collectively create.' Keeping these observations in mind we may now approach
the construction of section 52, sub-section (2).
The primary objection against the literal construction of section 52, sub-
section (2), is that it leads to manifestly unreasonable and absurd
consequences. It is true that the consequences of a suggested construction
cannot alter the meaning of a statutory provision but they can certainly help
to fix its meaning. It is a well-recognised rule of construction that a
statutory provision must be so construed, if possible, that absurdity and
mischief may be avoided."
20\. The court has further observed that the court must obviously prefer a
construction which renders the statutory provision constitutionally valid
rather than that which makes it void.
21\. For advancing his contention further, Mr. Shah relied upon the decision
of the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Filip Tiago De Gama of
Vedem Vasco De Gama, AIR 1990 SC 981, wherein the court has, inter alia,
observed that if the strict grammatical interpretation gives rise to absurdity
or inconsistency, the court could discard such interpretation and adopt an
interpretation which will give effect to the purpose of the Legislature; if a
given case is well within the general purpose of the Legislature, but not
within the literal meaning of the statute, then the court must strike the
balance. To the same effect there are observations in the case of Surjit Singh
Kalra v. Union of India [1991] 2 SCC 87. In that case, the court interpreted
and considered the provisions of sections 14A, 14B, 14C and 14D of the Delhi
Rent Control Act, 1958. As per the statutory proviso to section 25B(5), the
tenant could contest the application by obtaining leave with reference to the
particular claim in the application of the depending upon whether it is under
section 14A, 14B, 14C or 14D or under section 14(1)(e). It was contended that
when an application is filed under section 14B, the tenant cannot be allowed
to take up defence under section 14(1)(e). In that context the court observed
that it is unlikely that the Legislature intended the result for which counsel
for the tenant contended. It will be a mechanical interpretation of the
enactment defeating its purpose. Such an interpretation has never found favour
with the courts which have always adopted a purposive approach in the
interpretation of statutes. The court further observed as under (at page 98) :
"..... True it is no permissible to read words in a statute which are not
there, but 'where the alternative lies between either supplying by implication
words which appear to have been accidently omitted, or adopting a construction
which deprives certain existing words of all meaning, it is permissible to
supply the words' (Craies on Statute Law, 7th edn., p. 109). Similar are the
observations in Hameedia Hardware Stores v. B. Mohan Lal Sowcar [1988] 2 SCC
513, 524-525 where it was observed that the court construing a provision
should not easily read into it words which have not been expressly enacted but
having regards to the context in which a provision appears and the object of
the statute in which the said provision is enacted the court should construe
it in a harmonious way to make it meaningful. An attempt must always be made
so to reconcile the relevant provisions as to advance the remedy intended by
the statute."
22\. In view of the aforesaid legal position, section 43B read with
Explanation 2 and the proviso are required to be read harmoniously and
construed so as to advance the remedy intended by the statute.
(i) Firstly, the purpose of section 43B was to curb the practice of some
taxpayers of not discharging their statutory liability such as in respect of
excise duty, sales tax, employer's contribution to provident fund and
Employee's State Insurance Scheme for a long period of time and yet at the
same time to take deduction for the said amount by resorting to the mercantile
method of accounting. Further, the legislature has never intended that the
taxpayers, who discharge their statutory liabilities within the prescribed
time, should be placed in a disadvantageous position.
(ii) Secondly, the proviso is inserted to mitigate the hardship caused to the
taxpayers because of inept language of drafting or accidental omission in
section 43B. Hence, it can be stated that the proviso is inserted as a
remedial and curative measure.
(iii) Thirdly, by its very nature, the proviso is in a declaratory form.
(iv) Fourthly, it is accepted by all concerned that sales tax for the last
quarter cannot be paid within the previous year. That is to say, it is
impossible to pay the sales tax for the last quarter within the previous year.
It would be unreasonable to say that sales tax payment for the last quarter be
made within the previous year. If Explanation 2 and clause (a) of section 43B
are read together, it would mean that deduction shall be allowed in computing
the income only in the year in which such sum is actually paid in respect of
any sum payable by way of tax for which the assessee incurred liability in the
previous year, even though such sum might not have been payable within that
year (e.g., under the sales tax law). If the first proviso was not there, it
is bound to cause untold hardship to the assessee, because practically it
would be impossible for him to discharge sales tax liability of the last
quarter in the previous year in which the liability was incurred. To obviate
this hardship, as a remedial and curative measure, the first proviso is added.
The object and purpose of introducing the first proviso was understood in the
same manner by the Department, as per the Departmental Circular No. 550 (see
[1990] 182 ITR (St.) 114), quoted above.
(v) Fifthly, this interpretation is not in any way going to cause any loss to
the Revenue because the assessee is only entitled to get the deduction of the
liability incurred and actually paid during the period. As against this, the
construction suggested on behalf of the Revenue would lead to a wholly
unreasonable result which was never intended by the Legislature. Hence, even
if it is not specifically provided that the proviso would come into operation
from April 1, 1984, yet it is required to be held that the said proviso was
part and parcel of section 43B from the very beginning.
23\. The aforesaid view taken by us finds support from the decisions rendered
by various High Courts.
24\. In the case of CIT v. Pyarilal Kasam Manji and Co. [1992] 198 ITR 110,
the Orissa High Court after considering the provisions of section 43B held
that the proviso was added to remove practical difficulties which were
encountered by certain assessees. The assessees who made payments within the
prescribed time were not intended to be brought into the net of disallowance.
The object of section 43B to suppress the mischief of withholding of payment
and getting a deduction did not apply to such cases and hence it should be
held that the first proviso to section 43B would have retrospective effect in
its operation. The relevant observations of the court are as under (at page
119) :
"Whether the language of the statute leads to manifest contradiction of the
apparent purpose of the enactment, the court can adopt a construction which
will carry out the obvious intention of the Legislature. (See P. K. Unni v.
Nirmala Industries, AIR 1990 SC 933).
The main function of the proviso is to carve out an exception to the main
enactment. It cannot normally be so interpreted as to set at naught the real
object of the main enactment. (See A. N. Sehgal v. Raje Ram Sheoram, AIR 1991
SC 1406).
The object of section 43B was to refuse deduction to an assessee in respect of
a certain statutory liability, which the assessee does not discharge or where
there is dispute about the liability. In the case of certain assessees,
practical difficulties were encountered. With a view to getting over them,
amendments in section 43B were introduced by the Finance Act, 1987. Under the
law as amended, if an assessee has paid sales tax, additional sales tax,
Central sales tax, etc., on or before the due date applicable in his case for
furnishing his return of income under section 139(1) of the Act, section 43B
has no application. With regard to provident fund, family pension, etc., the
assessee shall be entitled to claim deduction if the same was paid on or
before the due date as defined in the Explanation below clause (va) of section
36(1) of the Act. The assessees who made payments in the aforesaid terms were
not intended to be brought into the net of disallowance. The object to
suppress the mischief of withholding of payment and getting a deduction did
not apply to such cases. Therefore, the first proviso to section 43B is
retrospective in its operation. Explanation 2 to the said section is subject
to the said proviso and the law as amended is applicable for the assessment
year 1984-85. The view in this regard expressed by the Patna High Court in
Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores' case [1991] 189 ITR 70 has, therefore,
our concurrence. We are in respectful disagreement with the view of the Delhi
High Court in Escorts Ltd.'s case [1991] 189 ITR 81. A view similar to ours
has been taken by the Calcutta High Court in CIT v. Sri Jagannath Steel
Corporation [1991] 191 ITR 676.
It is relevant to mention here that the special leave petition filed by the
revenue in respect of the decision of the Patna High Court in Jamshedpur Motor
Accessories Stores' case [1991] 189 ITR 70 was dismissed by the Supreme Court
by order dated July 19, 1991, in S. L. P. (Civil) No. 11793 of 1991 (see
[1991] 191 ITR (St.) 8) Though dismissal of the special leave petition cannot
be construed to be an expression of any opinion about the merits, we have felt
inclined to indicate that, in views of the cleavage of view. It is also
significant because special leave has been granted by the apex court in
Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 6467 of 1991 on May 8, 1991, in the case of
Weston Electronics Limited v. Union of India (see [1991] 191 ITR (St.) 3)
where the Delhi High Court, following its decision in Sanghi Motors' case
[1991] 187 ITR 703 and Escorts Ltd.'s case [1991] 189 ITR 81, had dismissed
the writ application."
25\. In the aforesaid decision, the court has relied upon the decision
rendered by the Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT v. Sri Jagannath Steel
Corporation [1991] 191 ITR 676, wherein the court has observed that the
provisos and the Explanation added to section 43B supplied an omission and
were intended to remove the impossibility of performance and, therefore,
cannot be said to be prospective in operation. If an assessee has paid the
sales tax, etc., on or before the due date applicable in his case for
furnishing the return of income, he shall be entitled to claim deduction of
that amount, whereas with regard to provident fund, family pension, paid on or
before the due date. In the said case, the court has observed that if the
contention raised by the Revenue is accepted, it would require the assessee to
do an impossible act because the assessee could not have paid its tax
liability in the previous year ending on March 31, 1984, as in March, 1984,
the last quarter would end.
26\. The same view has been taken by the Karnataka High Court in the case of
Chief Commissioner (Administration) v. Sanjay Sales Syndicate [1992] 197 ITR
255. In that case, the court held that the proviso is only a machinery
provision which could be applied to all pending matters which are not
concluded finally.
27\. The Patna High Court in the case of Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores
v. Union of India [1991] 189 ITR 70, has held that upon a contextual
interpretation of statutes, the proviso to section 43B of the Act should be
construed as retrospective in its operation and Explanation 2 thereto should
be held to be subject to the said proviso. The court has further observed that
if section 43B is to be literally interpreted, it must be struck down as it
provides for doing an impossible act. But, it can be upheld by holding that
the assessees who have cleared their tax liability during the prescribed time
were entitled to have the benefit of the proviso introduced subsequent to
1984-85.
28\. As against this, learned counsel, Mr. Shelat submitted that the Delhi
High Court in the case of Sanghi Motors v. Union of India [1991] 187 ITR 703,
has observed as under (at page 706) :
"It was next submitted by Dr. Singhvi that the amendment to section 43B has
been made in the year 1987 and this amendment, with effect from April 1, 1988,
is clarificatory in nature and by applying the said amendment the petitioner
was entitled to relief. We are unable to agree with this submission. The
amendment clearly states that it is with effect from April 1, 1988. This being
so, it is not possible to give the amending proviso retrospective effect with
effect from April 1, 1984."
29\. He further submitted that the same Bench has relied upon the aforesaid
decision in the case of Escorts Limited v. Union of India [1991] 189 ITR 81
(Delhi), wherein the court has observed that it was difficult to agree with
the decision rendered by the Patna High Court in the case of Jamshedpur Motor
Accessories Stores [1991] 189 ITR 70. Merely because a provision of the Act is
harsh, it is no ground for discarding one of the cardinal principles of
interpretation of statutes which is that if the language is clear and
unambiguous, then resort cannot be had to the aims and objects or the
Minister's speech with a view to interpret the provisions of an Act. It is
only if there is any ambiguity in the language that, in order to understand
the intention of the Legislature, aid can be taken of the proceedings in
Parliament including the aims and objects of the Act.
30\. We agree that the language of section 43B is clear and unambiguous.
Therefore, for interpreting the said section, no resort can be had to the aims
and objects or to the Minister's speech with a view to interpret the
provisions of the Act. But here, we are not interpreting section 43B. We are
considering whether the proviso, which is inserted with effect from April 1,
1988, and which is in its nature declaratory, remedial and curative, should be
held to be having retrospective effect. As stated earlier, there literal
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
relates back to the date when section 43B came into operation, i.e., April 1,
1984. Hence, the question is answered in the affirmative, i.e., in favour of
the assessee and against the Revenue.
32\. The reference stands disposed of accordingly with no order as to costs.
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
assessment proceedings, it was noticed that sales tax liability of the
assessee was Rs. 4,18,302 (Rs. 3,80,272, sales tax liability + Rs. 38,030,
surcharge). After drawing the attention of the assessee, the said amount was
added in the total income of the assessee in view of section 43B of the Act
and the assessee was directed to pay tax on the income of Rs. 4,63,100.
Against that order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner
of Income-tax. That appeal was partly allowed. However, the contention raised
by the assessee that Rs. 4,18,302 representing unpaid sales tax liability
should not be included under section 43B of the Act was rejected. Against that
order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal
heard the said appeal along with two other appeals wherein the question of
interpretation of section 43B of the Act was involved. It was pointed out to
the Tribunal that all the three assessees were maintaining accounts on the
mercantile basis. All of them have separate sales tax accounts in which sales
tax deducted from the parties is credited and sales tax paid to the Government
is debited and the balance amount is taken directly to the balance-sheet and
is not taken to the profit and loss account. After considering the various
contentions raised by the parties and the decisions cited at that Bar, the
Tribunal held that, as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
assessment proceedings, it was noticed that sales tax liability of the
assessee was Rs. 4,18,302 (Rs. 3,80,272, sales tax liability + Rs. 38,030,
surcharge). After drawing the attention of the assessee, the said amount was
added in the total income of the assessee in view of section 43B of the Act
and the assessee was directed to pay tax on the income of Rs. 4,63,100.
Against that order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner
of Income-tax. That appeal was partly allowed. However, the contention raised
by the assessee that Rs. 4,18,302 representing unpaid sales tax liability
should not be included under section 43B of the Act was rejected. Against that
order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal
heard the said appeal along with two other appeals wherein the question of
interpretation of section 43B of the Act was involved. It was pointed out to
the Tribunal that all the three assessees were maintaining accounts on the
mercantile basis. All of them have separate sales tax accounts in which sales
tax deducted from the parties is credited and sales tax paid to the Government
is debited and the balance amount is taken directly to the balance-sheet and
is not taken to the profit and loss account. After considering the various
contentions raised by the parties and the decisions cited at that Bar, the
Tribunal held that, as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
assessment proceedings, it was noticed that sales tax liability of the
assessee was Rs. 4,18,302 (Rs. 3,80,272, sales tax liability + Rs. 38,030,
surcharge). After drawing the attention of the assessee, the said amount was
added in the total income of the assessee in view of section 43B of the Act
and the assessee was directed to pay tax on the income of Rs. 4,63,100.
Against that order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner
of Income-tax. That appeal was partly allowed. However, the contention raised
by the assessee that Rs. 4,18,302 representing unpaid sales tax liability
should not be included under section 43B of the Act was rejected. Against that
order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal
heard the said appeal along with two other appeals wherein the question of
interpretation of section 43B of the Act was involved. It was pointed out to
the Tribunal that all the three assessees were maintaining accounts on the
mercantile basis. All of them have separate sales tax accounts in which sales
tax deducted from the parties is credited and sales tax paid to the Government
is debited and the balance amount is taken directly to the balance-sheet and
is not taken to the profit and loss account. After considering the various
contentions raised by the parties and the decisions cited at that Bar, the
Tribunal held that, as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last
quarter was concerned, the said liability would be an allowable deduction for
the assessment years 1984-85 to 1987-88 provided the assessee establishes that
the liability was discharged by actual payment before the due date applicable
in his case for furnishing the return of income under section 139(1) in
respect of the relevant previous years in which the liability had been
incurred. The Tribunal negatived the contention of the Revenue that the
proviso to section 43B of the Act should not be given any retrospective effect
and that the Tribunal should follow the decision of the Special Bench of the
Income-tax Appellate Tribunal at Delhi in the case of Rishi Roop Chemical Co.
(P.) Ltd. v. ITO [1991] 36 ITD 35 (SB), by holding that the Ahmedabad Bench
has consistently taken the view that, if the assessee has paid the amount in
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
total income of Rs. 41,210. The return was filed on March 20, 1986. During the
assessment proceedings, it was noticed that sales tax liability of the
assessee was Rs. 4,18,302 (Rs. 3,80,272, sales tax liability + Rs. 38,030,
surcharge). After drawing the attention of the assessee, the said amount was
added in the total income of the assessee in view of section 43B of the Act
and the assessee was directed to pay tax on the income of Rs. 4,63,100.
Against that order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner
of Income-tax. That appeal was partly allowed. However, the contention raised
by the assessee that Rs. 4,18,302 representing unpaid sales tax liability
should not be included under section 43B of the Act was rejected. Against that
order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal
heard the said appeal along with two other appeals wherein the question of
interpretation of section 43B of the Act was involved. It was pointed out to
the Tribunal that all the three assessees were maintaining accounts on the
mercantile basis. All of them have separate sales tax accounts in which sales
tax deducted from the parties is credited and sales tax paid to the Government
is debited and the balance amount is taken directly to the balance-sheet and
is not taken to the profit and loss account. After considering the various
contentions raised by the parties and the decisions cited at that Bar, the
Tribunal held that, as far as sales tax liability in respect of the last
quarter was concerned, the said liability would be an allowable deduction for
the assessment years 1984-85 to 1987-88 provided the assessee establishes that
the liability was discharged by actual payment before the due date applicable
in his case for furnishing the return of income under section 139(1) in
respect of the relevant previous years in which the liability had been
incurred. The Tribunal negatived the contention of the Revenue that the
proviso to section 43B of the Act should not be given any retrospective effect
and that the Tribunal should follow the decision of the Special Bench of the
Income-tax Appellate Tribunal at Delhi in the case of Rishi Roop Chemical Co.
(P.) Ltd. v. ITO [1991] 36 ITD 35 (SB), by holding that the Ahmedabad Bench
has consistently taken the view that, if the assessee has paid the amount in
interpretation of section 43B, without there being proviso, was likely to
cause unintended hardship to genuine taxpayers. It becomes impossible for them
to discharge their sales tax liability for the last quarter within the
previous year. It would be too much to hold that the Legislature would require
the assessee to discharge an impossible function. Hence, to mitigate the
hardship, the proviso was inserted. It is also a well recognised rule of
construction that a statutory provision must be so construed which avoids
absurdity and mischief and that a clarificatory and explanatory provision
should normally in the context be interpreted to have retrospective effect.
The respondent is not likely to suffer any loss by this interpretation. Hence
with greatest respect, it is difficult for us to agree with the view taken by
the Delhi High Court in the case of Escorts Limited [1991] 189 ITR 81.
31\. In the result, it is held that the first proviso to section 43B of the
Income-tax Act remedial and curative in nature and the proviso was brought
into force to remedy unintended hardship which was likely to be caused by
section 43B. It is also declaratory in its nature. Hence, the said proviso
