Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Mumbai
Lionbridge Technologies Private ... vs Assistant Commissioner Of Income ... on
15 June, 2018
                IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                       MUMBAI BENCH "K" MUMBAI
         BEFORE SHRI MAHAVIR SINGH (JUDICIAL MEMBER) AND
             SHRI N.K. PRADHAN (ACCOUNTANT MEMBER)
                           MA No. 75/MUM/2018
                         (ITA No. 1291/Mum/2017)
                         Assessment Year: 2012-13
             Lionbridge Technologies            Asst. Commissioner of
             Pvt. Ltd.                    Vs.   Income Tax-15(2)(1)
             3rd floor, Reliable Tech           Room No. 403, 4th floor,
             Park Off. Thane-Belapur            Aayakar Bhavan, M.K.
             Road Airoli                        Road,
             Navi Mumbai-400078.                Mumbai-400020.
              PAN No. AABCT3380Q
             Appellant                            Respondent
                      Assessee by         : Mr. Paras Savla, AR
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
               Date of Hearing            : 23/03/2018
             Date of pronouncement        : 15/06/2018
                                        ORDER
PER N.K. PRADHAN, AM By this Miscellaneous Application (MA), the
applicant/assessee seeks rectification of the mistake apparent from record/set
aside/recall of the order of the Tribunal dated 07.11.2017 in ITA No.
1291/Mum/2017 (hereafter referred as 'the Order'). Cybermate Infotek Ltd is
referred here as 'CIL'. We begin with the contentions of the applicant. Then
we proceed to give reasons in response to it.
Contentions of the Applicant
2\. The applicant files a written submission dated 30.01.2018 submitting that
certain inadvertent mistakes have crept in the order Lionbridge Technologies 2
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 dated November 7, 2017 and therefore the order of the
Tribunal may be rectified and be recalled.
1\. It is stated that the following are the mistakes apparent on record as
regards the important facts and circumstances which give rise to the present
MA :
> a. Mistake of not following judicial precedents: It is stated that the ITAT
> Bench has failed to follow the decision of the jurisdictional High Court and
> the applicant's own order for a previous year. (Para 6.1.1 and 6.1.2 of the
> Order) b. Mistake of not adjudicating on all arguments out forth by the
> applicant: It is stated that that the applicant had submitted various
> arguments for exclusion of one company selected by the Transfer Pricing
> Officer.
However, the ITAT has failed to adjudicate on all the arguments submitted by
the applicant. (Para 4.1 and Para 6 of the order) c. Deciding on arguments not
put forth at the time of hearing (Para 6.1 and 6.2-6.2.3 of the order) d.
Mistake of not passing a speaking Order and passing contradictory statements
within the same order (Para 6.1.3 and 6.3 of the order) e. Mistake that the
Counsel argued only exclusion of Cybermate Infotek Ltd. (Para 2 of the order)
Then the following facts have been mentioned at para 4-10 of the above written
submission:
Lionbridge Technologies 3 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
2\. The applicant is a captive service provider and Is engaged in the
provision of routine, low-end software development and related services to its
associated enterprises ('AEs'). It provided localization software services,
including e-learning, content development and user support services.
Localization services involve taking a product and making it linguistically
and culturally appropriate to the target locale. Content development includes
updating and management of clients' localized software and web content.
Application maintenance includes minor modifications and changes, maintenance
of already existing software depending on the customer's requirements. It was
remunerated for its services at cost plus mark-up of 16.37%.
3\. For the impugned year, the applicant selected Transactional Net Margin
Method ('TNMM'J as the most appropriate method. The profit level indicator
that was selected was Net Profit/Operating Cost ('OP/OC'). As per its Transfer
Pricing Study Report, the margin of the applicant was 16.87%, and the weighted
average margin of the 9 companies selected by it as comparable was 13.73%,
while the single- year average margin of the 9 companies was 15.95%. Since the
margin of the applicant was higher than the average margin of the companies,
the applicant submitted that the international transactions entered into by it
were at arm's length.
4\. The companies selected by the Applicant in its Transfer Pricing Study
Report were as under:
           Sr. No.                  Company name         Operating Margin
                                                             (OP/TC)
          1.         Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.        9.87%
          2.         CG VAK Software &Exports Ltd.           16.18%
          3.         CybermateInfotek Ltd.                   56.97%
                                                                           Lionbridge Technologies 4
                                                                            MA No. 75/Mum/2018
              4.        Firstobject Technologies Ltd.                       0.93%
              5         Gold stone Technologies Ltd.                        11.01%
              6         RS Software (India) Ltd.                            15. 21%
              7.        R Systems International Lid.                        1.72%
              8.        Virinchi Technologies Ltd.                          12.98%
              9.        Ybrant Digital Ltd. (Formerly known as LGS          18.70%
                        Global Lid.)
                                         Average Margin                     15.95%
5\. During the course of the transfer pricing assessment proceedings, the
Transfer Pricing Officer ('TPO') contended that outsourcing cost incurred by
the applicant was not a pass-through cost and had to be included in the
operating cost of the applicant. Accordingly, the TPO determined that the
margin of the applicant at 14.33%. With regard to companies selected in the TP
Study Report, the TPO rejected 4 companies and retained 5 companies and added
5 new companies. The average margin of the final set of 10 companies was
computed by the TPO as 22.62% and he proposed an adjustment of
Rs.7,09,24,015/-.
6\. The final set of companies selected by the learned TPO were as under:
    Sr. No.                       Company name                       Operating Margin
                                                                         (OP/TC)
    1         Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.                           9.87%
    2.        CybermateInfotek Ltd,                                      56.97%
    3.        RS Software (India) Ltd.                                   15.21%
    4.        Virinchi Technologies Ltd.                                 12.98%
                                                                      Lionbridge Technologies 5
                                                                       MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    E.    Ybrant Digital Ltd. (Formerly known as LGS Global Ltd.)   18.70%
    6.    Acropetal Technologies Ltd. (IT seg)                      13.54%
    7.    Aspire Systems Ltd.                                       22.17%
    8.    Indium Software Ltd.                                      28.95%
    9.    Persistent Systems Ltd.                                   26.94%
    10.   Zylog Systems Ltd.                                        30.70%
                                    Mean                            22.62%
7\. The applicant preferred an appeal before the Dispute Resolution Panel
('DRP'). The DRP upheld the order of the TPO and consequently, theAssessing
Officer ('AO'J made an addition of Rs.7,09,24,015/-in the final order passed
u/s 143(3) r.w.s 144C(13) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ('Act').
8\. A further appeal was preferred by the applicant before the ITAT.
9\. It is stated that the matter was posted for hearing on August 10, 2017.On
the said date, the Hon'ble Members initially adjourned the matter to August
17, 2017 due to other lengthy stay granted appeals, which were to take time.
However, at around 12.00 noon, after other matters got heard, the applicant's
matter was called out for hearing. The Counsel, in reply to the inquiry of the
Hon'ble Members, stated that that matter may take long if all grounds were
argued, but if the Bench was convinced on exclusion of one comparable (namely,
Cybermate Infotek Ltd.) selected by the TPO, then the appeal would be in
favour of the applicant and the remaining grounds would be academic in nature.
The Hon'ble Bench proceeded to hear the appeal and the matter was considered
as heard on August 10, 2017, after hearing on the Counsel on one comparable
only. However, the Counsel Lionbridge Technologies 6 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
submitted a brief chart which included arguments for all comparable companies.
10\. It is stated that during the course of hearing, the applicant, through
its Counsel, Mr. Paras S. Savla, submitted a chart encapsulating its arguments
for the said appeal. Broadly, the chart contained arguments on exclusion of
incomparable companies, inclusion of comparable companies and incorrectly
considering pass-through costs as operating costs while computing the margin
of the applicant.
11\. It is further stated that in the aforesaid order dated November 7, 2017,
it has been held that CybermateInfotek Ltd is functionally comparable to the
applicant and has been correctly retained by the TPO. Further, the Bench
refrained from adjudicating on any other ground raised by the appellant.
12\. The applicant submits that the said order is fraught with the following
mistakes, which are apparent on record, and hence submits that the order be
recalled or rectified accordingly.
13\. The applicant had relied on Bombay High decision in case of CIT v PTC
Software (I) (P.) Ltd. [2016]75 taxmann.com 31 (Bom), wherein at paragraph 10
the Hon'ble Court has held that a company engaged in selling software products
is functionally different from a company rendering software development
services.
14\. The applicant thereafter relied on Mumbai Tribunal case in its own case
for earlier year i.e. Lionbridge Technologies (P.) Ltd. v. ITO [2015] 64
taxmann.com461 (Mum) wherein at paragraph 82, the Hon'ble Tribunal has held
that the applicant is into software Lionbridge Technologies 7 MA No.
75/Mum/2018 development and cannot be compared with a company engaged in
software products.
15\. The above decisions make it clear that that a company which is into
products is not functionally comparable to a company which purely develops
software and renders only software development services. Both the
abovementioned decisions make it amply clear that product development cannot
be compared to software development services.
16\. Relying on the above judicial principles, the applicant stated that the
facts of Cybermate Infotek Ltd. ('Cybermate') fell within the teeth of Bombay
High Court decision and Mumbai Tribunal decision and hence was not comparable.
17\. Further it is stated that the applicant explained as under:
> Cybermate - functionally Not Comparable:
> a. As per the Annual Report of Cybermate, it was into the business of
> providing Custom built Software Development, product development and IT
> services. It had developed over 39 products, including HEALSOFT, aHospital
> Management Software. The Annual Report also listed down 12 other products.
> However, the applicant was a low-end software developer and did not own any
> products. Hence, the applicant was hence not comparable to Cybermate.
> b. Further, the company also reported "Intangible Assets under Development"
> and also capitalized "Web Development Expenses" in its Balance Sheet, The
> company had intangibles, while the Assessee did not own any intangible
> assets.
> Lionbridge Technologies 8 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 Low Employee Cost:
> c. The percentage of employee cost to total operating cost of Cybermate was
> only 11.10%, however, the applicant's corresponding percentage of employee
> cost was 48%. This implied that Cybermate was not a service oriented
> company, while the Assessee was one. Reliance was placed on the judgment of
> the Hon'ble Delhi High Court In Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT [2015]
> 377 ITR 533 (Delhi HC), wherein it has been held that companies which have a
> less percentage of employee cost may be outsourcing most of their activity
> and hence not comparable to a company which develops in-house.
18\. It is stated that the matter was considered as heard on August 10, 2017,
after hearing on the Counsel on this one comparable only. However, In the
order, the Hon'ble Tribunal has used the words services and products
interchangeably and further that the services / products rendered and
functions undertaken by the Applicant and Cybermate fall broadly in similar
domain and are hence comparable.
19\. It is further stated that in page 7, paragraph 6.1.1 of the order, the
Tribunal has observed that in PTC Software (I) (P)Ltd. (supra), it was held
that companies having same financial year have to be compared and the services
rendered by KPO and LPO are inherently different from nature of services
rendered by a BPO. The Tribunal held that in the present case, the data for
the same financial year has been used for comparability analysis.
Lionbridge Technologies 9 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 The applicant submits that the
Tribunal has relied on the wrong paragraph of the High Court decision and
hence consequently come to an incorrect conclusion. The applicant had relied
on findings on Question No.(ii) raised before the High Court. It was for the
principle that a company, which owned and sells software products, was not
comparable to a company which renders software services to its holding
company. It is emphasized that in the above order, the Bench has referred to
only the headnote of the said judgment which does not refer to all the
questions raised before the High court. The Tribunal missed to refer to page
6, paragraph 10(a) to (d) wherein it has been held that KALS Information
Solutions Ltd., a company which was engaged in the business of selling
software products, was not comparable to a company into software services.
20\. It is also stated that the jurisdictional High Court in the case of PTC
Software (I) (PJ Ltd. (supra) has clearly held that a company, which earns
income out of software products, is not comparable to a company into software
development services. Reference of wrong question and not following the
decision of the jurisdictional High Court amounts to mistake apparent from
record and hence may be rectified. Various courts have held that a lower court
should follow the principle of precedence and follow the order of a higher
jurisdictional court and not following the same is a mistake apparent on
record and ought to be rectified.
21\. Also it is stated that similarly, in page 8, paragraph 6.12 of the order,
the Tribunal has observed that in Lionbridge Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra),
Cybermale was not a comparable in those assessment years i.e. AY 2009-10 and
2010-11. However, in earlier year, the Lionbridge Technologies 10 MA No.
75/Mum/2018 principle has been decided, though albeit for a different
comparable. The applicant had relied on the order of the Tribunal in its own
case for the proposition that a company which is into software products is not
comparable to it, which is solely into software development. In the said
earlier year decision, on page 13, paragraph 25, page 22, paragraph 73 and
page 25, paragraph 82, has clearly held that the applicant was not into
software products and cannot be compared to a company which is into sale of
software products.
22\. It is argued that in the impugned order date November 7, 2017, the Bench
has held that the services / products and functions rendered by the applicant
and Cybermate fall broadly in similar domain and are hence comparable in
nature. As submitted above, Cybermate is a company into selling software
product. The impugned order is completely contradictory to the order of the
Hon'ble Tribunal in the applicant's own case for AY 2009-10 and 2010-11, more
so when there are no change in facts or in law. It has been held in numerous
judgments that a court has to follow its own order for an earlier year, unless
there has been change in facts or in law, and not following the same will be a
mistake apparent on record. Inadvertently, there is a gross violation of
settled principles of jurisprudence and may be rectified.
23\. The applicant submits that the Bench has repeatedly and interchangeably
used the phrase "services/products" are functionally comparable in the
impugned order. This is in blatant contradiction of the jurisdictional High
Court and the order of the Tribunal for the previous year. The activities in
the nature of services and products are entirely different from each other and
cannot be compared at all.
Lionbridge Technologies 11 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
24\. Through the above written submission, the applicant would like to submit
that the action of not following the jurisdictional High Court and the Hon'ble
Tribunal's own order for the preceding years, is a mistake apparent on record
and has to be rectified.
Mistake of not adjudicating on all arguments put forth by the Applicant:
25\. The applicant had argued that Cybermate was not comparable to it,
because:
> a. It was functionally different; it was into custom built software
> development, product development and IT services. As seen from the
> financials, it developed over 39 products, including HEALSOFT, whereas the
> applicant was not into product development (Page 211, 215 of Paper Book
> filed on July 3, 2017) b. It did not provide segmental information on
> software development activity (Page 243 of Paper Book filed on July 3, 2017)
> c. It developed intangibles, whereas the applicant did not do so (Page 231,
> 238 of Paper Book filed on July 3, 2017) d. Its percentage of employee cost
> to total cost was only 11.10%, whereas that of the applicant was 48.38%.
> (Refer to calculation filed at the time of hearing).
26\. The applicant submits that the Tribunal in the impugned order has not
dealt with other contentions of the applicant. The order has failed to
adjudicate on the contentions of the applicant that Cybermate was into product
development and owned more than 39 products, it developed intangibles and
lastly, that its percentage of employee cost Lionbridge Technologies 12 MA No.
75/Mum/2018 was much lower than that of the applicant. It has merely held that
the applicant and Cybermate were functionally comparable.
27\. It is stated that at the time of hearing, the applicant had placed
reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court m the case of
RampgreenSolutions Pvt. Ltd. (supra), which has held in page 19, paragraph 38
that a business model where services are rendered by employing own employees
and using one's own infrastructure would have a different cost structure as
compared to a business model where services are outsourced and consequently,
such companies having different business models cannot be compared with each
other.
28\. It is further submitted that in fact, in the impugned order dated
November 7, 2017 the decision of Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd.(supra), has
been quoted for the proposition that though TNMM is less sensitive to
dissimilarities, a higher product and functional similarity would strengthen
the efficacy of a method. However, the Tribunal failed to take into cognizance
of the fact that Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (supra) had itself excluded a
company due to functional dissimilarity i.e. not having sufficient percentage
of employee cost. The decision was relied upon by the applicant for the
principle of percentage of employment cost is a relevant factor to decide
comparability.
29\. It is further submitted that the Tribunal in its order dated November 7,
2017 has simpliciter held that the applicant and Cybermate are functionally
comparable since both its activities are broadly similar. The Hon'ble Tribunal
in the impugned order has selectively dealt with only one out of four
arguments of the applicant. It has neither dealt with other arguments of the
applicant on Lionbridge Technologies 13 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 Cybermate, nor has
it distinguished the judgments referred to by the applicant. Not adjudicating
various arguments raised by the applicant amounts to mistake apparent on
record and hence may be rectified.
Mistake of not passing a Speaking Order:
30\. The applicant submits that the Tribunal in its order dated November 7,
2017, vide paragraph 6.1.1 and 6.1.3 has simpliciter held that the applicant
and Cybermate are functionally comparable since both its activities are not
broadly similar. This has been reiterated in paragraph 6.1.4 and 6.4.
31\. It is stated that however, the Tribunal has not given reasons for its
ratio. In page 7, paragraph 6, it states the functions of the applicant and
Cybermate and then in paragraph 6.1.1, on page 8, it holds that they are
comparable since their activities fall under in similar domain. The Tribunal
has not passed a speaking order on how a company like Cybermate. Which is into
product development, inter alia, is comparable to the applicant, which is
purely into low-end routine software development and localization services. It
has not distinguished the decisions relied upon by the applicant nor has it
given reasons for its conclusion.
32\. It is further stated that the Tribunal ought to passed a speaking order
dealing with the contentions raised by the applicant. This amounts to mistake
apparent on record and hence may be rectified.
Decision on arguments not put forth at the time of hearing:
33\. It is submitted that the Tribunal in page 9-10, paragraph 6.2- 6.2.3 has
held that Cybermate and the Applicant are comparable since they have similar
revenue recognition policy in their notes to accounts Lionbridge Technologies
14 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 in their financial statements. The applicant does not
recollect any such argument taken by its Counsel or the Department's
Representative relying upon the revenue recognition policy of the Applicant
and Cybermate.
34\. It is further stated that in page 7, paragraph 6.1., it has been stated
that as per the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Padmausundara Rao v. State of TN 255
ITR147, a court should rely on a decision only after discussing how it are
factually relevant to a case. This case was not quoted at the time of hearing
by either the Counsel or the Department, and was not referred to at the time
of hearing. If fact applying the principle, Bombay High Court decision in case
of PTC Software (supra) should have been considered in totality.
35\. It is stated that as per section 254(1) of the Act, the Hon'ble Tribunal
has to pass an order after giving an opportunity of being heard to both the
appellant and respondent. In case the Hon'ble Bench wishes to rely on any
decision which was not referred to at the time of hearing, then an opportunity
to rebut the same ought to have been given to the applicant. This is the basis
of principle of natural justice and an action of denying the applicant the
same is bad in law and ought to be rectified.
Mistake of passing Contradictory Statements within the Same Order
36\. It is further stated that in page 8, paragraph 6.1.3 of the order, the
Hon'ble Bench has relied on Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (supra) to hold
that:
> "Comparability analysis by TNMM method may be less sensitive to certain
> dissimilarities between the tested party and the comparables. However,
> Lionbridge Technologies 15 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 that cannot be the
> consideration for diluting the standards of selecting comparable
> transactions/entities. A higher product and functional similarity would
> strengthen the efficacy of the method in ascertaining a reliable ALP.
> Therefore, as far as possible, the comparables must be selected keeping in
> view the comparability factors as specified. Wide deviations in PLI must
> trigger further investigations/analysis."
37\. It is also stated that in page 10, paragraph 6.3 the Hon'ble Bench has
relied on Maersk Global Centres (India) (P.) Ltd. v. ACIT (2014) 147ITD 83
(Mumbai-SB), wherein it was held that "the Tribunal observed that the net
profit indicators such as 'operating profit to operating cost or total cost or
total sales are less affected by transactional differences, and the same being
more tolerant to some functional differences controlled and uncontrolled
transactions, broad functionality can be taken consideration for selecting to
potential comparators when TNMM is applied."
38\. It is stated that relying Maersk Global Centres(supra), the Hon'ble Bench
held in paragraph 6.3 that "TNMM request only broad functional and
product/services comparability. TNMM is less dependent on product
comparability and functional comparability than the traditional transaction
methods."
39\. The applicant submits that the Hon'ble Bench in one paragraph has
referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Ramgreen(supra),
which had held that though TNMM is broad based, a higher product and
functional similarity would strengthen the efficacy of the method to determine
the arm's length price, while subsequently, the Hon'ble Bench relies on the
decision of Hon'ble Mumbai Bench in the case of Maersk (supra), and held that
TNMM does not require product comparability. This is an apparent incongruity
which Lionbridge Technologies 16 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 necessitates the order to
be rectified. In fact, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in paragraph 34, page 18,
of Ramgreen (supra) has specifically overruled Maersk (supra) on certain
aspects, and has held that even in TNMM, all companies broadly into
Information Technology Enabled Services cannot be compared and one has to look
at the specific services being rendered by each of them.
40\. It is stated that since there are contradictory observations within the
same order it may be rectified.
Mistake that the Counsel argued only exclusion of CybermateInfotek Ltd.:
41\. The applicant submits that in page 2, paragraph 2 of the said order of
the Hon'ble Tribunal, it has been stated that the Applicant's Counsel argued
only against the exclusion of CybermateInfoteck Ltd. Consequently, the Bench
has restricted to adjudicate only on the said company.
42\. The applicant submits that the matter was posted for hearing on August
10, 2017. On the said date, the matter was initially adjourned to August 17,
2017 due to other lengthy stay granted appeals, which were to take time.
However, at around 12.00 noon, after other matters got heard, the applicant's
matter was again called out for hearing. The Counsel, in reply to the inquiry
of the Hon'ble Members, stated that that matter may take long if all grounds
were argued, but if the Bench was convinced on exclusion of one comparable
selected by the TPO, then the appeal would be in favour of the applicant and
the remaining grounds would be academic in nature. The Hon'ble Bench proceeded
to hear the appeal and the matter was considered as heard on August Lionbridge
Technologies 17 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 10, 2017, after hearing on the Counsel on
one comparable only. However, the Counsel submitted a brief chart which
included arguments for all comparable companies.
43\. The applicant would like to rely on the chart submitted at the time of
hearing, which contained the applicant's contentions on all the grounds of
appeal. Affidavit of the counsel, is herewith attached, to confirm the facts
enumerated in above-mentioned paragraph 11. Other grounds were never mentioned
as "not pressed". In fact, to support the contentions the brief chart was
filed for all the grounds.
44\. The applicant prays that the observation in paragraph 2 of the said order
of the Tribunal be rectified.
45\. The applicant finally submits that the Hon'ble Bench has stated on page
11 that the order has been pronounced in open court on November 7, 2017. The
applicant would like to bring on record that on November 7, 2017, being a
Tuesday, no notice was put up to inform about the pronouncement of orders in
open court.
46\. Thus the applicant submits that a. rectify the mistake apparent on record
of order dated November 7, 2017 and grant the relief prayed for in the appeal
by passing appropriate order.
b. in the alternative, the order dated November 7, 2017 may be set
aside/recalled and the appeal may be decided afresh by giving reasonable
opportunity.
c. any other relief which the Hon'ble Bench deems fit and proper considering
the facts of the applicant.
Lionbridge Technologies 18 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
3\. Along with the MA, the Ld. counsel of the assessee files a copy of the
decision in CIT v. PTC Software (I) (P) Ltd. (2016) 75 taxmann.com 31 (Bom),
Rampgreen Solutions (P) Ltd. v. CIT (2015) 60 taxmann.com 355 (Del),
Lionbridge Technologies (P) Ltd. v. ITO (2015) 64 taxmann.com 461 (Mumbai-
Trib). These decisions were referred to and relied upon by the Ld. counsel
during the course of hearing before the Tribunal on 10.08.2017.
4\. The Ld. counsel also relies on the decision in Safari Mercantile (P) Ltd.
v. ITAT (2016) 73 taxmann.com 287 (Bom), Hinduja Global Solutions Ltd. (2015)
59 taxmann.com 456 (Bom) and ACIT v. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Ltd.
(2008) 173 Taxman 322 (SC).
5\. The Ld. counsel of the assessee files an affidavit dated 30.01.2018
containing the following:
> 1\. "That the company Lionbridge Technologies Pvt. Ltd., had appointed me to
> represent their case before the Hon'ble Income-tax Appellate Tribunal.
> 2\. That the appeal bearing number 1291/M/2017 was fixed for hearing before
> the Tribunal at 'K' Bench on August 10th, 2017.
> 3\. That I appeared for the Appellant, M/s Lionbridge Technologies Private
> Limited on the said date.
> 4\. That the Tribunal initially adjourned the matter to August 17, 2017 due
> to other lengthy stay granted appeals, which were to take time. However, at
> around 12.00 noon, after other matters got heard, the Applicant's matter was
> called out for hearing. That in reply to the inquiry of the Hon'ble Members,
> I stated that that matter may take long if all grounds were argued, but if
> the Bench was convinced on exclusion of one comparable selected by the TPO,
> then the appeal would be in favour of the Applicant and the remaining
> grounds would be academic in nature. The Hon'ble Bench proceeded to hear the
> appeal and the Lionbridge Technologies 19 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 matter was
> considered as heard on August 10, 2017, after hearing only on one comparable
> only. However, I submitted a brief chart which included arguments for all
> comparable companies for the convenience of the bench.
> 5\. That the appeal was deposed of vide order dated November 7, 2017.
> 6\. That in paragraph 2 of the said order it has been stated that during the
> course of hearing, I had submitted that I would argue only against the
> exclusion of one company being M/s, Cybermale Infotek Ltd. That the above
> observation is incorrect. I had submitted the brief chart which contained
> arguments for all the comparable companies. I say that whatever is stated
> hereinabove is true to the best of my knowledge and believe the same to be
> true."
6\. On the other hand, the Ld. DR submits that the said Order has been passed
by the Tribunal on the basis of hearing on 10.08.2017 and the materials filed.
Thus he supports the above order.
Analysis & Reasons for the Decision
7\. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant materials on
record. We discuss below the above decisions relied on by the Ld. counsel.
7.1 In PTC Software (I) (P) Ltd. (supra), the assessee was engaged in
providing information technology (IT) services and IT enabled services of its
holding company. Assessee determined the Arms Length Price (ALP) on adoption
of Transaction Net Margin Method (TNMM) and determined the profit level
indicator (PLI) in respect of the IT Services Segment at 14.02% while
arithmetic mean of the PLI of comparable companies was 10.70%. Similarly, in
respect of its IT enabled Services its PLI was determined at 14.23% while the
arithmetic mean of the PLI of the comparable cases was 10.51%. As the PLI of
the assessee was Lionbridge Technologies 20 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
higher/favourable than that of the comparables, no transfer pricing adjustment
was called for in terms of its transfer pricing study. Thus the consideration
received from its holding company in respect of IT Services and in respect of
IT enabled services was at ALP. According to the TPO, on comparison with
appropriate comparables, the ALP in respect of its IT services was determined
at Rs.105 crores and in respect of IT enabled services was determined at
Rs.6.73 crores. This resulted in the TPO passing order u/s 92CA(3) determining
the upward adjustment of international transaction at Rs.10.38 crores. The DRP
did not disturb the proposed adjustment. The Tribunal set aside the order to
the extent it related to international transactions and restored the issue to
the AO to determine the transfer price adjustment in terms of directions
containing in the order of the Tribunal.
On revenue's appeal, the Hon'ble High Court held that (i) a company engaged in
sale of software products was incomparable to the assessee which was engaged
in providing IT services to its holding company, (ii) data to be used for
comparability analysis should be of same financial year in which international
transactions were entered into by the assessee-company, (iii) company engaged
not only in IT enabled Services but also in providing agency services by way
of outsourcing its work to third party vendors, was functionally different
from the assessee, (iv) services rendered by KPO and LPO are inherently
different from nature of services being rendered by BPO, (v) when income
earned from BPO operations was 87% of total revenue earned by comparable, BPO
operation by comparable being similar to that rendered by assessee, it could
not be excluded from comparable list.
Lionbridge Technologies 21 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 7.2 In Rampgreen Solutions (P.)
Ltd. (supra), the assessee was engaged in providing voice based customer care
services to the clients of its AEs. It also rendered call centre services
which fell within the broad description of information technology enabled
services. In consideration for the services, the AE remunerated the assessee
by payment of all costs incurred by the assessee plus a mark up of 15% of the
costs. The assessee chose 8 comparable entities and arithmetic average of the
operating profit margins of the said comparables was computed at 15.74%.
According to the assessee, its PLI was within the acceptable range as
indicated under the second proviso to section 92C and no adjustment was
required. The TPO identified a different set of comparable companies for the
purpose of determining the ALP and computed the average operating profit
margin of the comparable companies at 28.96% on the basis of the average
operating profit margin of 11 companies selected and computed the TP
adjustment. On appeal, the DRP confirmed the said order. The assessee appealed
against the final assessment order on the ground that two comparables, namely
e-Clerx and Vishal could not be considered as comparable entities as the said
companies were engaged in the business of Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO)
and thus could not be included as comparables. The Tribunal rejected the
assessee's contention and held that both e-Clerx and Vishal were engaged in
providing ITeS and once a service fell within that category, then no sub-
classification of the segment was permissible. The Tribunal also held that KPO
is a term given to the branch of BPO services where apart from processing of
data, knowledge is also applied. The assessee's objection that the said two
companies had abnormally high Lionbridge Technologies 22 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
profits and thus ought to be excluded as comparables was also rejected.
On assessee's appeal, the Hon'ble High Court held that (i) though entities
rendering voice call center services and a KPO service provider employ IT-
based delivery systems, but characteristic of services, functional aspects,
business environments, risks and quality of human resource employed are
materially different; and thus benchmarking international transactions on
basis of comparison of PLI of KPO service providers with PLI of Voice Call
Centres would be unreliable and possibly flawed, (ii) a company engaged in
data analytic, data processing services, pricing analytic, sales and marketing
support and product data management cannot be compared to a company providing
voice call customer care services to its AE, (iii) a company outsourcing most
of its work to other service providers cannot be compared to company where
services are rendered by employing own employees, (iv) where supernormal
profits indicate a functional dissimilarity or dissimilarity with respect to a
feature that has a material bearing on profitability, it would be necessary to
undertake further analysis to eliminate possibility of high profits resulting
on account of any material dissimilarity between the tested party and chosen
comparable, (v) while using TNMM, search for comparables may be broadened by
including comparables offering services/products which are not entirely
similar to controlled transaction/entity if functions performed by tested
party and selected comparable entity are similar including assets used and
risks assumed and difference in services/products offered has no material
bearing on profitability.
Lionbridge Technologies 23 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 7.3 In Lionbridge Technologies
(P.) Ltd. (supra), the assessee- company was engaged in business of providing
contract software development services to its AEs. The assessment years were
2009-10 and 2010-11. The Tribunal held (i) where related party transaction of
a company was more than 25%, said company would be excluded from final set of
companies comparable to assessee, (ii) a software product manufacturer could
not be comparable, (iii) a company engaged in business of providing Geospatial
Information System Services needed to be excluded from set of comparables,
(iv) a global company that was specializing in software product and technology
innovation and utilizing its product engineering processes to develop
solutions for its customers who were players in technology, telecommunication,
life science, healthcare, banking and consumer products sectors and outsourced
software product development services and was deriving its revenues primarily
come sale of software services and software products, it could not be
comparable, (v) a company that provided end to end business solutions that
leverage cutting-edge technology, thereby enabling clients to enhance business
performance as also provided solutions that span entire software life cycle
encompassing technical consulting, design, development, re-engineering,
maintenance, systems integration, package evaluation and implementation,
testing and infrastructure management services; and additionally, it also
offered software products for banking industry and it had a strength of about
one lakh employees as against approximately 4,600 employees of assessee, it
was not functionally comparable, (vi) where a company was engaged into
development of software and software products and segmental information
regarding its software Lionbridge Technologies 24 MA No. 75/Mum/2018
development segment was not available, this company was incomparable with the
assessee.
8\. The Ld. counsel files a copy of the decision in Safari Mercantile (P) Ltd.
v. ITAT (2016) 73 taxmann.com 287 (Bom), Hinduja Global Solutions Ltd. (2015)
59 taxmann.com 456 (Bom) andACIT v. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Ltd.
(2008) 173 Taxman 322 (SC).
8.1 In Safari Mercantile (P) Ltd. (supra), the AO passed an order u/s 140A(3)
holding assessee as an assessee-in-default for failure to partially pay the
self-assessment tax along with interest. He passed an order imposing a penalty
u/s 221. On appeal, the said penalty was set aside by the CIT(A) on the ground
that the AO had not issued a proper demand notice u/s 156 before taking action
to impose penalty u/s 221. On further appeal, the Tribunal allowed the
revenue's appeal on the ground that the tax which was not paid was undisputed
and no reasonable cause for not paying the tax was made out. The assessee
filed a miscellaneous application u/s 254(2) before the Tribunal for
rectification of the Tribunal's order on the ground that there was error
apparent on record as the assessee's contention regarding non-service of the
demand notice u/s 156 before taking action u/s 221, though raised before the
Tribunal had not been considered. This application was dismissed by the
Tribunal. For the reason that no submission with regard to non-service of a
demand notice before imposing a penalty u/s 221 upon the assessee was made
during the hearing of the appeal. The assessee filed a writ petition
challenging the order of the Tribunal in the High Court which allowed the
petition holding that the finding recorded by the Tribunal that the plea
regarding non-service of the demand notice was not raised before the Tribunal,
could not sustain.
Lionbridge Technologies 25 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 Accordingly, the writ petition
was allowed. The impugned order passed by the Tribunal in rectification
application was set aside and the Tribunal was directed to dispose of the
application on merits. The Tribunal as per the order of the High Court heard
the rectification application filed by the petitioner and dismissed it on
consideration of the statutory provisions in the context of judgments. On
writ, the Hon'ble High Court held (i) no appeal is entertained by the High
Court from an order passed by the Tribunal dismissing application for
rectification u/s 254(2) and (ii) rejection on merits of contentions of
parties by Tribunal on a substantial question of law is subject to statutory
right of appeal u/s 260A which cannot be bypassed by dealing with merits in an
application for rectification.
8.2 In Hinduja Global Solutions Ltd. (supra), the issue before the Tribunal
was regarding disallowance made on account of claim for deduction u/s 10A.
This very issue was covered in favour of the petitioner-assessee by the
decision of the Tribunal for the assessment year 2005-06 in the assessee's own
case. The department before the Tribunal also accepted the position. In spite
of the agreed position between the parties, the Tribunal by the impugned order
yet remanded this very issue to the AO for fresh examination/determination. On
writ, the petitioner-assessee had informed that the appeal for the subsequent
year was scheduled to come up before the Tribunal and for assessment year
2010-11, the date has yet to be fixed by the Tribunal. The petitioner-assessee
seriously apprehended, and views not unjustifiably that the Tribunal, while
dealing with the assessee's appeal for the subsequent years may also restore
the issue to the AO for de novo examination disregarding the earlier order.
All this would happen without the Tribunal at any Lionbridge Technologies 26
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 point of time considering for what reason is its own order
for the AY 2005-06 in respect of the petitioner on identical facts, did not
correctly to decide the dispute. The Hon'ble High Court held (i) to correct
the approach the Tribunal that the Court is constrained to exercise its
extraordinary jurisdiction and set aside the impugned order of the Tribunal
and restore it to the Tribunal for fresh consideration and disposal on merits,
after addressing itself to its earlier order passed for the assessment year
2005-06 in respect of the petitioners on merits. As far as the other issues
decided by the impugned order, on merits, are concerned, it is open to the
parties to adopt such remedies as are available to them in law, (ii) the
impugned order is set aside to the extent it has restored the issue of the
petitioner's claim of deduction u/s 10A to the Assessing Officer. The above
issue is restored to the Tribunal for fresh disposal, in light of above.
8.3 In Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Ltd (supra), the assessee, a stock
exchange, made an application for registration u/s 12A of the Act. Pending the
application, it filed nil return claiming exemption u/s
11\. The return was processed u/s 143(1)(a). Subsequently, a notice was issued
to the assessee u/s 154 to show cause why exemption granted u/s 11 should not
be withdrawn. Meanwhile, the Commissioner granted registration to the
assessee. The AO, however, rejected the claim of exemption u/s 11. On appeal,
the Commissioner (Appeals) upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal also
upheld the order of the Commissioner (Appeals). The assessee filed an
application u/s 254(2) stating that decision of the jurisdictional High Court
in Hira Lal Bhagwati v. CIT (2000) 246 ITR 188 (Guj) had not been brought to
notice of the Tribunal and, thus, there was a 'mistake apparent from record'
which required rectification. The Tribunal allowed the Lionbridge Technologies
27 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 application and, accordingly, recalled its order. On
writ, the High Court upheld the order of the Tribunal recalling its earlier
order. On appeal by the revenue, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held at para 47 the
following :
> "In the present case, according to the assessee, the Tribunal decided the
> matter on October 27, 2000. Hiralal Bhagwati was decided few months prior to
> the decision, but it was not brought to the attention of the Tribunal. In
> our opinion, in the circumstances, the Tribunal has not committed any error
> of law or of jurisdictional in exercising power under sub-section (2) of
> section 254 of the Act and rectifying "mistake apparent from the record".
> Since no error was committed by the Tribunal in rectifying the mistake, the
> High Court was not wrong in confirming the said order. Both the orders,
> therefore, in our opinion, are strictly in consonance with law and no
> interference in called for".
9\. Now we would examine the submissions made in the MA. It is stated that the
Bench has not followed the decision in PTC Software (I) (P) Ltd. (supra),
Rampgreen Solutions (P.) Ltd. (supra), Lionbridge Technologies (P.) Ltd.
(supra).
9.1 At para 6.1.1 of the Order, it has been mentioned that in PTC Software (I)
(P.) Ltd. (supra) it has been held that (i) data to be used for comparability
analysis should be the same financial year in which international transactions
were entered into by the tested party and
(ii) services rendered by KPO and LPO are inherently different from nature of
services being rendered by BPO.
Also it is clearly stated in the Order that the data for the same financial
year 2011-12 has been used for comparability analysis. Also the
services/products and functions rendered by the appellant and CIL fall broadly
in similar domain.
Lionbridge Technologies 28 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 9.2 At para 6.1.3 of the Order,
it has been mentioned that in Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. vs. CIT (2015) 377
ITR 0533 (Del.), the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that 'Comparability
analysis by TNMM method may be less sensitive to certain dissimilarities
between the tested party and the comparables. However, that cannot be the
consideration for diluting the standards of selecting comparable
transactions/entities. A higher product and functional similarity would
strengthen the efficacy of the method in ascertaining a reliable ALP.
Therefore, as far as possible, the comparables must be selected keeping in
view the comparability factors as specified. Wide deviations in PLI must
trigger further investigations/analysis.' Also it has been clearly mentioned
below para 6.1.3 of the Order that the services/product and functions rendered
by the appellant and CIL fall broadly in similar domain.
9.3 Further, it is mentioned at para 6.1.2 of the Order that in Lionbridge
Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra), CIL was not a comparable during the relevant
assessment year 2009-10 and 2010-11.
During the course of hearing, the Ld. counsel relied on the order of the
Tribunal in assessee's own case for the AY 2009-10 and AY 2010-11. We find
that CIL was not a comparable during the above assessment years. Therefore, it
would not be advisable to draw conclusion from AY 2009-10 and AY 2010-11 for
AY 2012-13.
In the Income Tax Act, each year is a self-contained separate period. In CIT
v. Sanjeev Woollen Mills (2003) 264 ITR 68, 75 (Bom), Kotak Mahindra Finance
Ltd. v. DCIT (2004) 265 ITR 114, 119 it has Lionbridge Technologies 29 MA No.
75/Mum/2018 been held that under the income-tax law, each year constitutes a
separate unit.
In M.M. Ipoh v. CIT, (1968) 67 ITR 106, 118 (SC), it has been held that the
assessment and the facts found are conclusive only in the year of assessment:
the findings on questions of fact may be good and cogent evidence in
subsequent years, when the same question falls to be determined in another
year, but they are not binding and conclusive.
Admittedly, in Lionbridge Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra), CIL was not a
comparable during the relevant assessment year 2009-10 and 2010-11. Therefore,
the instant case is distinguishable from the above order of the Tribunal
relied on by the Ld. counsel.
Thus, there is no mistake on our part in relying on the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Padmasundra Rao v. State of T.N. 255 ITR 147 (SC)
wherein it has been held that circumstantial flexibility, e.g. one additional
or different fact, may make a world of difference between conclusions in two
cases.
10\. There is no dispute on the ratio laid down in Safari Mercantile (P) Ltd.
(supra).
10.1 In Hinduja Global Solutions Ltd. (supra), it has been held that where in
earlier appeal and issue is decided by Tribunal in favour of the assessee and
in subsequent appeal, same issue in assessee's own case is remanded to the AO
for fresh determination, such order of Tribunal is to be set aside.
As delineated hereinbefore, in Lionbridge Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra), CIL
was not a comparable during the relevant assessment year Lionbridge
Technologies 30 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 2009-10 and 2010-11. Therefore, the instant
case is distinguishable from the above decision relied on by the Ld. counsel.
10.2 In Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Ltd. (supra), it has been held that
non-consideration of a decision of jurisdictional High Court or of Supreme
Court can be said to be a 'mistake apparent from record' which can be
rectified u/s 254(2).
In the instant case, we have discussed the order of the Hon'ble Bombay High
Court in PTC Software (I) (P.) Ltd. (supra) at para 6.1.1 of the Order and
found that the data for the same financial year 2011-12 has been used for
comparability analysis. We have mentioned therein that in present case the
services/products and functions rendered by the appellant and CIL fall broadly
in similar domain. Thus there is no question of non-consideration of a
decision of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court.
11\. Now we proceed to address the other submissions made in the MA that there
is mistake in the order in not adjudicating on all arguments put forth by the
applicant, deciding on arguments not put forth at the time of hearing, mistake
in not passing the speaking order and passing contradictory statements in the
same order and mistake that the Ld. counsel argued only exclusion of CIL.
During the course of hearing on 10.08.2017, the Ld. counsel submitted that he
would argue only against the inclusion of CIL by the Assessing Officer (AO).
Because of the above submission by the Ld. counsel, we restricted our
discussion to the case of CIL only. The submission made by the Ld. counsel has
been summarized by us at para 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 of the Order. The
submission of the Ld. DR Lionbridge Technologies 31 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 has
been summarized at para 5 of the Order. Having heard the rival submissions and
perused the relevant materials on record, we have noted the facts about the
nature of business as borne out of the Paper Book (P/B) filed by the
appellant. At page 24 of the P/B, we find that LB India (the assessee)
provides low-end routine, software development and localisation services to LB
Group. LB Group companies undertake the project with overseas customers and
part of the project (software development/localisation) are outsourced by LB
Group to LB India. This has been stated at para 1.2.1 of the 'Transfer Pricing
Study Report' filed by the appellant.
At page 211 of the P/B filed by the appellant, we find that CIL is engaged in
the business of providing custom built software development, product
development and IT services to customers in domestic and overseas locations.
Then we have referred to 'Revenue recognition' followed by the appellant and
CIL at para 6.2 to understand closely the nature of business. It means when
the revenue should be recognised in the profit and loss account and also
states the circumstances in which revenue recognition can be postponed.
Generally speaking, revenue means gross inflow of cash, receivable and other
considerations arising in the course of ordinary activities of an enterprise
such as (i) the sale of goods, (ii) rendering the services, (iii) use of the
enterprise resources by others yielding interest, dividend and royalties.
We have also noted at para 6.2 of the Order the 'Revenue recognition' which is
a part of 'Significant Accounting Policies' followed by the assessee and CIL.
Lionbridge Technologies 32 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 Revenue recognition of the
appellant has been mentioned in 'Note-15' (p.10 of the P/B), which reads as
under:
> "The Company derives its Revenues primarily from rendering Software
> development, Localisation and other related services. Income from services
> is recognised based on the contractual arrangement with the customer in the
> period in which such services are rendered."
> The revenue recognition of CIL reads as under:
> "Revenue from the software development on time and material contracts is
> recognised based on the software developed and billed in accordance with the
> terms and specific contracts. Revenue from a fixed price contract is
> recognized on the basis of milestones achieved in the performance of the
> contracts on a percentage completion basis." (p.234 of the P/B).
In view of the nature of business conducted by the appellant (p.24 of the P/B)
and CIL (p.211 of the P/B) read along with 'Revenue recognition' which is a
part of 'Significant Accounting Policies' followed by the appellant (p.10 of
the P/B) and CIL (p. 234 of the P/B), we came to a finding that the
services/products and functions rendered by the appellant and CIL fall broadly
in similar domain.
We refer here to para 6.2.1, 62.2 and 6.2.3 of the Order.
We have also relied at para 6.3 of the Order, on the decision of the Special
Bench of the Tribunal in Maersk Global Centres (India) (P.) Ltd. v. ACIT
(2014) 147 ITD 83 (ITAT Mumbai-SB), wherein it is observed that the net profit
indicators such as 'operating profit to operating cost or total cost or total
sales' are less affected by transactional differences, and the same being more
tolerant to some functional differences between controlled and uncontrolled
Lionbridge Technologies 33 MA No. 75/Mum/2018 transactions, broad
functionality can be taken into consideration for selecting to potential
comparables when TNMM is applied.
Thus TNMM request only broad functional and product/services comparability.
TNMM is less dependent on product comparability and functional comparability
than the traditional transaction methods.
Unlike Resale Price Method (RPM) and Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP), TNMM
involves comparison of margins at net profit level, not at gross profit level.
TNMM is a transactional profit method; not a traditional transactional method
like CUP or RPM.
12\. What is rectifiable u/s 254(2) is a mistake which is apparent from
record. In the instant case, there is no mistake apparent from record.
12.1 A mistake apparent on the record must be an obvious mistake and not
something which can be established by a long drawn process of reasoning on
points on which there may be conceivably two opinions. A decision on a
debatable point of law is not a mistake apparent from the record. This view is
supported by the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in T.S. Balaram, ITO v.
Volkart Bros., (1971) 82 ITR 50 (SC), Master Construction Co. P. Ltd. v. State
of Orissa, AIR 1966 SC 1047, Karam Chand Thapar & Bros. (Coal Sales) Ltd. v.
State of U.P. (1976) Tax LR 1921, 1927 (SC) and CCE v. ASCU Ltd., (2003) 9 SCC
230,
232\. To sum up, the nature of business of the appellant (p.24 of P/B) and CIL
(p.211 of P/B) coupled the 'Revenue recognition' (p.10 of P/B) and CIL (p.234
of P/B) led us to a finding that the services/products and functions rendered
by the appellant and CIL fall broadly in similar Lionbridge Technologies 34 MA
No. 75/Mum/2018 domain. In view of the above facts, we have upheld the order
of the AO in including CIL as a comparable. We found that CIL included by the
appellant as a comparable initially still remained to be a valid comparable
later on included by the TPO/AO as the services/products and functions
rendered by the appellant and CIL fall broadly in similar domain. As there is
no mistake apparent from record, the MA filed against the inclusion of CIL is
dismissed.
13\. We find there is no irregularity in pronouncing the order on 07.11.2017
as mentioned at para 47 of the MA.
14\. We are concerned with the submission of the applicant at para 11 of the
MA that "if the Bench was convinced on exclusion of one comparable (namely,
Cybermate Infotek Ltd.) selected by the TPO, then the appeal would be in
favour of the applicant and the remaining grounds would be academic in
nature." Taking into account the facts and circumstances of the case, we
recall our order dated 07.11.2017 for the limited purpose of adjudicating the
other comparables adopted by the TPO/AO and the DRP and the other grounds of
appeal filed by the appellant and accordingly, the Registry is directed to fix
the case to be heard by a regular Bench.
15\. In the result, the present MA is partly allowed to the extent indicated
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                                          BY ORDER,
    //True Copy//
                                       (Dy./Asstt. Registrar)
                                          ITAT, Mumbai
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
               Date of Hearing            : 23/03/2018
             Date of pronouncement        : 15/06/2018
                                        ORDER
PER N.K. PRADHAN, AM By this Miscellaneous Application (MA), the
applicant/assessee seeks rectification of the mistake apparent from record/set
aside/recall of the order of the Tribunal dated 07.11.2017 in ITA No.
1291/Mum/2017 (hereafter referred as 'the Order'). Cybermate Infotek Ltd is
referred here as 'CIL'. We begin with the contentions of the applicant. Then
we proceed to give reasons in response to it.
Contentions of the Applicant
2\. The applicant files a written submission dated 30.01.2018 submitting that
certain inadvertent mistakes have crept in the order Lionbridge Technologies 2
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 dated November 7, 2017 and therefore the order of the
Tribunal may be rectified and be recalled.
1\. It is stated that the following are the mistakes apparent on record as
regards the important facts and circumstances which give rise to the present
MA :
> a. Mistake of not following judicial precedents: It is stated that the ITAT
> Bench has failed to follow the decision of the jurisdictional High Court and
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
               Date of Hearing            : 23/03/2018
             Date of pronouncement        : 15/06/2018
                                        ORDER
PER N.K. PRADHAN, AM By this Miscellaneous Application (MA), the
applicant/assessee seeks rectification of the mistake apparent from record/set
aside/recall of the order of the Tribunal dated 07.11.2017 in ITA No.
1291/Mum/2017 (hereafter referred as 'the Order'). Cybermate Infotek Ltd is
referred here as 'CIL'. We begin with the contentions of the applicant. Then
we proceed to give reasons in response to it.
Contentions of the Applicant
2\. The applicant files a written submission dated 30.01.2018 submitting that
certain inadvertent mistakes have crept in the order Lionbridge Technologies 2
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 dated November 7, 2017 and therefore the order of the
Tribunal may be rectified and be recalled.
1\. It is stated that the following are the mistakes apparent on record as
regards the important facts and circumstances which give rise to the present
MA :
> a. Mistake of not following judicial precedents: It is stated that the ITAT
> Bench has failed to follow the decision of the jurisdictional High Court and
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
               Date of Hearing            : 23/03/2018
             Date of pronouncement        : 15/06/2018
                                        ORDER
PER N.K. PRADHAN, AM By this Miscellaneous Application (MA), the
applicant/assessee seeks rectification of the mistake apparent from record/set
aside/recall of the order of the Tribunal dated 07.11.2017 in ITA No.
1291/Mum/2017 (hereafter referred as 'the Order'). Cybermate Infotek Ltd is
referred here as 'CIL'. We begin with the contentions of the applicant. Then
we proceed to give reasons in response to it.
Contentions of the Applicant
2\. The applicant files a written submission dated 30.01.2018 submitting that
certain inadvertent mistakes have crept in the order Lionbridge Technologies 2
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 dated November 7, 2017 and therefore the order of the
Tribunal may be rectified and be recalled.
1\. It is stated that the following are the mistakes apparent on record as
regards the important facts and circumstances which give rise to the present
MA :
> a. Mistake of not following judicial precedents: It is stated that the ITAT
> Bench has failed to follow the decision of the jurisdictional High Court and
> the applicant's own order for a previous year. (Para 6.1.1 and 6.1.2 of the
> Order) b. Mistake of not adjudicating on all arguments out forth by the
> applicant: It is stated that that the applicant had submitted various
> arguments for exclusion of one company selected by the Transfer Pricing
> Officer.
However, the ITAT has failed to adjudicate on all the arguments submitted by
the applicant. (Para 4.1 and Para 6 of the order) c. Deciding on arguments not
put forth at the time of hearing (Para 6.1 and 6.2-6.2.3 of the order) d.
Mistake of not passing a speaking Order and passing contradictory statements
within the same order (Para 6.1.3 and 6.3 of the order) e. Mistake that the
Counsel argued only exclusion of Cybermate Infotek Ltd. (Para 2 of the order)
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
                      Revenue by          : Mr. Saurabh Deshpande, Sr. DR
               Date of Hearing            : 23/03/2018
             Date of pronouncement        : 15/06/2018
                                        ORDER
PER N.K. PRADHAN, AM By this Miscellaneous Application (MA), the
applicant/assessee seeks rectification of the mistake apparent from record/set
aside/recall of the order of the Tribunal dated 07.11.2017 in ITA No.
1291/Mum/2017 (hereafter referred as 'the Order'). Cybermate Infotek Ltd is
referred here as 'CIL'. We begin with the contentions of the applicant. Then
we proceed to give reasons in response to it.
Contentions of the Applicant
2\. The applicant files a written submission dated 30.01.2018 submitting that
certain inadvertent mistakes have crept in the order Lionbridge Technologies 2
MA No. 75/Mum/2018 dated November 7, 2017 and therefore the order of the
Tribunal may be rectified and be recalled.
1\. It is stated that the following are the mistakes apparent on record as
regards the important facts and circumstances which give rise to the present
MA :
> a. Mistake of not following judicial precedents: It is stated that the ITAT
> Bench has failed to follow the decision of the jurisdictional High Court and
> the applicant's own order for a previous year. (Para 6.1.1 and 6.1.2 of the
> Order) b. Mistake of not adjudicating on all arguments out forth by the
> applicant: It is stated that that the applicant had submitted various
> arguments for exclusion of one company selected by the Transfer Pricing
> Officer.
However, the ITAT has failed to adjudicate on all the arguments submitted by
the applicant. (Para 4.1 and Para 6 of the order) c. Deciding on arguments not
put forth at the time of hearing (Para 6.1 and 6.2-6.2.3 of the order) d.
Mistake of not passing a speaking Order and passing contradictory statements
within the same order (Para 6.1.3 and 6.3 of the order) e. Mistake that the
Counsel argued only exclusion of Cybermate Infotek Ltd. (Para 2 of the order)
above.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/06/2018 Sd/- Sd/-
          (MAHAVIR SINGH)                      (N.K. PRADHAN)
          JUDICIAL MEMBER                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Mumbai;
    Dated: 15/06/2018
    Rahul Sharma, Sr. P.S.
                                            Lionbridge Technologies 35
                                             MA No. 75/Mum/2018
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :
    1. The Appellant
    2. The Respondent.
    3. The CIT(A)-
    4. CIT
    5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai
    6. Guard file.
