Karnataka High Court
Munivenkatappa vs Chikkapapamma on 6 June, 1991
Equivalent citations: ILR 1991 KAR 3014, 1991 (4) KarLJ 6
Author: R Jois
Bench: R Jois, K J Shetty
JUDGMENT Rama Jois, J.
1\. In this Second Appeal presented under Section 100 of the Code of Civil
Procedure referred to Division Bench under Section 9 of the Karnataka High
Court Act, 1961, the following Question of Law arises for consideration:
Whether in a Second Appeal presented before this Court under Section 100 of
the C.P.C. this Court has no power to allow a party to produce additional
evidence even if the conditions specified in Clause (aa) of Order 41 Rule 27
are satisfied?
2\. Brief facts of the case are these: According to the appellant
Munivenkatappa, he purchased 2 acres of land in Sy. No. 45/5 of Kooteri
village, Kasaba Hobli, Kolar Taluk, by registered Safe Deed dated 18-1-1951
(marked as Ex.D.4in the suit) and that he purchased another 32 guntas of land
in the same Survey number under a registered Sale Deed dated 5-3-1953 (marked
as Ex.D.5 in the suit) from one Hanumanthappa, the father of the respondent.
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
declaration and possession of the very property purchased by the appellant
under the two registered Sale Deeds from Hanumanthappa. The case of the
respondent-plaintiff was that on the date on which the appellant purchased the
two items of lands from Hanumanthappa, he had no title as he had sold the said
items of lands by registered Sale Deed dated 23-7-1947 (marked as Ex.P.1) in
favour of one Munibyrappa and the respondent-plaintiff purchased the same from
the said Munibyrappa by registered Sale Deed dated 4-10-1947 (Ex.P.2). One of
the main issues for consideration before the Court of Munsiff was, as to
whether the plea of the respondent that on the date on which the appellant
claimed that he had purchased the suit schedule lands under two registered
Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 (Ex.D.4) and 5-6-1953 (Ex.D.5) from Hanumanthappa,
he did not acquire any right or title to the property, for the reason that on
the said date Hanumanthappa did not have any title to the property, he having
sold the same to Munibyrappa on 23-4-1947 (Ex.P-1) and the same having been
purchased by the respondent from him under registered Sale Deed dated
4-12-1947 (Ex.P-2) was correct. The trial Court recorded a finding in favour
of the respondent and decreed the suit. Aggrieved by the Judgment and Decree
of the Court of Munsiff, the appellant preferred an Appeal before the
Principal Civil Judge, Kolar. The Appellate Court affirmed the findings
recorded by the Court of the Munsiff and dismissed the Appeal presented by the
appellant. Along with this Appeal presented under Section 100 of the C.P.C.,
the appellant has made an application for receiving certified copies of two
registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951, which are produced along
with the application and the certified copy of the Record of Rights in which
there are entries about the aforesaid two Sale Deeds. The appellant has stated
in the application that the respondent after purchasing the suit schedule land
under registered Sale Deed dated 4-12-1947 from Munibyrappa had sold the
property once again in favour of Munibyrappa on 11-3-1948 and Munibyrappa had
in turn sold the property in favour of Hanumanthappa by registered Sale Deed
dated 8-1-1951 and it is only thereafter the appellant purchased the land from
Hanumanthappa under two registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-1-1953. The
appellant has stated that the respondent who had executed the Sale Deed in
favour of Munibyrappa on 11-3-1948 was not only aware of the same but was also
aware of the fact that the said Munibyrappa had in turn sold the property to
Hanumanthappa on 8-1-1951 under a registered Sale Deed, whereas the appellant
was not at all aware of the same.
He has also stated that in the Record of Rights extract produced by the
respondent as Exhibit-P22, there was no reference at all to the sale deed
dated 11-3-1948 and that inspite of efforts the appellant did not get relevant
information. He has further stated that when he again made efforts with the
help of an educated friend of his, he came to know that the plaintiff had sold
the land by registered Sale Deed dated 11-3-1948 i.e., only after he secured
on 13-11-1978 the correct Record of Rights extract and he also came to know
from it that by another Sale Deed dated 8-1-1951, his vendor had acquired the
title to the suit property, The appellant has therefore prayed for receiving
the three documents as additional evidence in exercise of the power under
Order 41 Rule 27 of the Code. The appellant states that if the two registered
documents are taken as additional evidence in the case, it knocks at the
bottom of the case put forward by the respondent in the plaint and it fully
establishes the case of the appellant that as on the date on which the
appellant purchased the lands, i.e., on 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 from
Hanumanthappa, the latter had the title to sell those properties and therefore
the suit filed by the respondent was liable to be dismissed.
3\. The application for receiving additional evidence has been vehemently
opposed by Sri Gopala Gowda, the learned Counsel for the respondent. He
submitted that in view of Section 100 read with Section 103 of the Code, this
Court had no jurisdiction to go into the correctness of a finding of fact and
in view of these two provisions, the provisions contained in Order 41 Rule 27
of the Code and Order 42 of the Code, which makes the provisions contained in
Order 41 applicable to second appeals only 'as far as may be', would be of no
assistance to the appellant, for, that provision has to be read with Sections
100 and 103 of the Code and if so read there was no power vested in the Court
hearing a Second Appeal to admit any additional evidence.
4\. Regarding the merits of the case, the learned Counsel submitted that the
two documents which the appellant wants this Court to receive as additional
evidence, were not genuine documents and in fact the father of the respondent
had died as early as in the year 1949 and therefore there was no question of
the property being sold to Hanumanthappa in the year 1951 or the said
Hanumanthappa selling the said property to the appellant on 8-1-1951 and
5-6-1953 respectively.
5\. In support of the contention that no additional evidence can be received
in a Second Appeal, the learned Counsel relies on the Judgment of a learned
Judge of this Court in the case of BALWANT YADNESHWAR v. SRINIVAS APPAJI
KULKARNI, 1959 Mys. L.J. 581, in which the learned Judge after referring to
various Decisions cited at the Bar, held that no additional evidence could be
received in a Second Appeal. The relevant portion of the Judgment reads:-
"If we look to the scheme of the Civil Procedure Code, we find that Part VII
which relates to appeals is sub-divided into five divisions viz.,
1\. appeals from original decrees (Sections 96 to 99);
2\. appeals from appellate decrees (Sections 100 to 103);
3\. appeals from orders (Sections 104 to 106);
4\. general provisions relating to appeals (Sections 107 & 108);
5\. appeals to the Supreme Court (Sections 109 to 112).
It will be found that the scope of the provisions relating to second appeals
is very narrow. Whereas Section 96 provides that an appeal shall lie from
every decree, except one passed by consent of parties, Section 100 lays down
that a second appeal shall lie only on one of the three grounds, viz., a. When
the decision is contrary to law or to some usage having the force of law;
b. When it has failed to determine some material issues of law or usage having
the force of law; and c. When there is a substantial error or defect in
procedure which may have produced some error or defect in the decision of the
case upon the merits.
Section 101 lays down emphatically that no second appeal shall lie except on
the said grounds. From these provisions, it is clear that no second appeal can
lie on a question of fact. In other words, the High Court, in second appeal,
is bound to accept the finding of the first Appellate Court as final and it
cannot enter into questions of fact. An exception to this Rule is provided by
Section 103. It provides that the High Court in second appeal may determine
any issue of fact where it is necessary for the disposal of the appeal under
two circumstances viz.,
1\. Where such an issue has not been determined by the lower Appellate Court;
or
2\. Where it has been wrongly determined by that Court by reason of any
illegality, omission or error or defect such as is referred to in Section
100(1).
Except under such circumstances, it is not open for the High Court in second
appeal to enter into questions of fact.
Examining further the scheme of the Civil Procedure Code, we find that Order
XLI, relates to appeals from original decrees and Order XLII to appeals from
appellate decrees. The latter order consists of only one Rule which lays down
that "the Rules of Order XLI shall apply so far as may be to appeals from
appellate decrees." It is obvious that the use of the clause 'so far as may
be' in the above Rule indicates that, although generally the provisions of
Order XLI are applicable to second appeals, some of them cannot be applied. If
all the Rules are applicable, the above qualifying clause would not have been
introduced."
xxx xxx xxx "On a careful consideration of the foregoing, I reach the
conclusion that the provisions of Rule 27 of Order XLI C.P.C. are not
applicable to second appeals and no document can be allowed to be produced in
second appeal."
This Decision does support the, contention of the respondent. He also relies
upon the Judgment of the Rajasthan High Court in the case of CHATAR LAL v.
RAMDASS, . He next relied on the Decision of the Supreme Court in AFSAR SHAIKH
v. SOLEMAN BIBI, . The relevant portion of the Judgment reads:-
"18. Be that as it may, the High Court was not competent, in second appeal, to
reverse the finding of fact recorded, after the remand, by the first appellate
Court, to the effect, that Afsar was not in a position to dominate the will of
the plaintiff, and he did not exercise any undue, influence on the plaintiff
to obtain the Hiba-bil-Ewaz, which was voluntarily executed by the plaintiff
after understanding its contents and effect. The scope of the powers of the
High Court to interfere in second appeal with Judgments and decrees of Courts
below is indicated in Sections 100, 101 and 103 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. Broadly, the effect of Sections 100 and 101, read together, is that
a second appeal is competent only on the ground of an error in law or
procedure, and not merely on the ground of an error on a question of fact. The
High Court has no jurisdiction to entertain a second appeal on the "ground of
an erroneous finding of fact, however gross or inexcusable the error may seem
to be" (Mst. Durga Choudhrani v. Jawahar Singh), (1890) 17 Ind App 122 (PC).
Section 103 enables the High Court in second appeal, where the evidence on the
record is sufficient to determine an issue of fact necessary for the disposal
of the appeal only -
(a) if the lower appellate Court has not determined that issue of fact, or
(b) if it has determined that issue wrongly by reason of any illegality,
omission, error or defect such as is referred to in Sub-section (1) of Section
100."
The learned Counsel also relied on the Judgment of the Supreme Court in STATE
OF GUJARAT v. VORA SALEBHAI GULAMALI, AIR 1987 SC 1815, the relevant portion
of which reads:-
"We think that the learned single Judge of the High Court was not right in
allowing the question which is not a pure question of law to be raised at that
stage."
In the above three Decisions, the question which was considered and answered
was about the scope of Sections 100 and 103 and the precise question which
arises for consideration in this case did not arise for consideration. In the
Judgment of the Rajasthan High Court the only question which arose was whether
on a finding recorded by a First Appellate Court after an order of remand made
in a Second Appeal, the High Court has the jurisdiction to interfere with the
finding of fact on the ground that there was only a finding of fact of the
First Appellate Court on the issue and there was no finding of the trial
Court. The Rajasthan High Court on consideration of all the relevant
provisions and in particular Sections 100 and 103 of the Code held that
notwithstanding the fact that the finding recorded by the First Appellate
Court was on a question of fact pursuant to an order of. remand made by the
High Court, the fact remains that it is a finding of the First Appellate Court
and therefore in an appeal presented under Section 100 of the Code the High
Court could not interfere with the said finding of fact.
6\. The learned Counsel for the respondent, however, relied on the Decision of
the Gujarat High Court in the case of CHUDASMA JASUBHA v. CHUDASMA RAISING
BAPUBHA, . Relevant portion of the Judgment reads:-
"On the question whether additional evidence can be taken or not in a Second
Appeal there are two schools of thought. In P.V. Subba Raja v. S.S. Narayana
Raja, Mr. Justice Krishnaswami Nayudu after having reviewed a number of
decisions has held that the circumstances under which a second appellate Court
may determine an issue of fact are limited to the conditions arising under
Section 103 which makes the position clear that so far as evidence is
concerned, on which an issue of fact may be determined, the evidence on record
must be sufficient to enable the High Court to decide the question of fact.
According to him it necessarily implies that it is ordinarily not competent to
the High Court in a second appeal to consider any other evidence excepting the
evidence on record, Therefore, the second appellate Court cannot admit
evidence and give its own decision on a question of fact. The provisions of
Section 103 are sufficiently clear to exclude the operation of Order 41, Rule
27 and their applicability to appeals filed under Order 42, Civil Procedure
Code. Every provision in Order 41 does not automatically apply to a proceeding
in second appeal by virtue of Order 42, Rule 1 but only such provisions as may
reasonably be applied having in view the provisions of Sections 100 and 103
and the limited scope of the jurisdiction of the second appellate Court in
matters affecting questions of fact. According to him, therefore, the proper
view to be taken is that it is not competent to admit additional evidence in a
second appeal. The second school of thought is represented by the decision of
Andhra Pradesh High Court in Venku Reddi v. Pichi Reddi, AIR 1956 Andhra 250,
Mr. Justice Chandra Reddy has taken the view therein that there is nothing
either in Section 103 of in Order 41, Rule 27, Civil Procedure Code, which
excludes, the applicability of the latter provision to second appeals. The
terms of Rule 27 are general in application and in an appropriate case it is
open to the High Court in a second appeal to admit additional evidence."
xxx xxx xxx "The first proposition is that the considerations which prevail in
regard to the reception of additional evidence in a First Appeal are different
from those which prevail in regard to its reception in a second appeal. In a
second appeal, the Court is required to examine whether the impugned decree is
in conformity with law. The findings of fact recorded by the lower Appellate
Court are final and binding on the Court. The second proposition which emerges
from the aforesaid decision is that additional evidence subsequently
discovered by a party cannot be admitted in a Second Appeal. That is the view
which this Court has taken in three decisions to which I have referred. That
is the view which was taken by the High Court of Bombay in Ramachandra
Pandurang Sathe v. Krishnaji Vithal Joshi, (1904) ILR 28 Bom. 4 (supra). In
light of this settled view of the question it is clear that the additional
evidence which Mr. Chhatrapati seeks to produce in this second appeal cannot
be taken, The expression "substantial cause" under Order 41 Rule 27 does not
in my opinion mean that a further opportunity should be given to the
plaintiffs to fill in the lacuna caused by their indifference and negligence.
The first contention which Mr. Chhatrapati has raised is, therefore, without
any substance and is rejected."
In this Judgment of the Gujarat High Court, the precise question did arise for
consideration and it was held no additional evidence could be received in a
Second Appeal.
7\. As against the submission made by the learned Counsel for the appellant,
Mr. T.S. Ramachandra, the learned Counsel for the appellant, relied on the
Judgment of the Bombay High Court in LAXMINARAYAN v. BHIKU UNJAJI, 1976 BLR
82.
The learned Counsel pointed out that in the said case the question as to
whether additional evidence could be received under Order 41 Rule 27 of the
Code in a second appeal has been considered by the Division Bench of the
Bombay High Court and the Division Bench on consideration of the Judgment of
this Court in Balwant Yadneshwar, had expressed disagreement giving reasons.
The learned Counsel also submitted that the Division Bench of the Bombay High
Court pointed out that a few Decisions on which reliance was placed by the
learned Judge of this Court to come to the conclusion that no additional
evidence could be received in a second appeal, had not actually laid down any
such proposition.
8\. In order to appreciate the contention, it is necessary to set out in the
first instance the relevant provisions of the Code. They are:-
"100. SECOND APPEAL- (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in the body of
this Code or by any other law for the time being in force, an appeal shall lie
to the High Court from every decree passed in appeal by any Court subordinate
to the High Court, if the High Court is satisfied that the case involves a
substantial question of law.
(2) An appeal may lie under this Section from an appellate decree passed ex
parte.
(3) In an appeal under this Section, the memorandum of appeal shall precisely
state the substantial question of law involved in the appeal.
(4) Where the High Court is satisfied that a substantial question of law is
involved in any case, it shall formulate that question.
(5) The appeal shall be heard on the question so formulated and the respondent
shall, at the hearing of the appeal, be allowed to argue that the case does
not involve such question."
xxx xxx xxx "103. POWER OF HIGH COURT TO DETERMINE ISSUE OF FACT:- In any
second appeal, the High Court may, if the evidence on the record is
sufficient, determine any issue necessary for the disposal of the appeal.
(a) which has not been determined by the lower Appellate Court or both by the
Court of first instance and the lower Appellate Court, or
(b) which has been wrongly determined by such Court or Courts by reason of a
decision on such question of law as is referred to in Section 100."
xxx xxx xxx "107. POWERS OF APPELLATE COURT:- (1) Subject to such conditions
and limitations as may be prescribed, an Appellate Court shall have power -
(a) to determine a case finally;
(b) to remand a case;
(c) to frame issues and refer them for trial;
(d) to take additional evidence or to require such evidence to be taken.
(2) Subject as aforesaid, the Appellate Court shall have the same powers and
shall perform as nearly as may be the same duties as are conferred and imposed
by this Code on Courts of original jurisdiction in respect of suits instituted
therein."
"108. PROCEDURE IN APPEALS FROM APPELLATE DECREES AND ORDERS:- The provisions
of this Part relating to appeals from original decrees shall, so far as may
be, apply to appeals -
(a) from appellate decrees, and
(b) from orders made under this Code or under any special or local taw in
which a different procedure is not provided."
xxx xxx xxx "Order 41, Rule 27, PRODUCTION OF ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE IN APPELLATE
COURT:- (1) The parties to an appeal shall not be entitled to produce
additional evidence, whether oral or documentary, in the Appellate Court. But
if,
(a) the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit
evidence which ought to have been admitted, or (aa) the party seeking to
produce additional evidence, establishes that notwithstanding the exercise of
due diligence, such evidence was not within his knowledge or could not after
exercise of due diligence be produced by him at the time when the decree
appealed against was passed, or
(b) the Appellate Court requires any document to be produced or any witness to
be examined to enable it to pronounce Judgment; or for any other substantial
cause, the Appellate Court may allow such evidence or document to be produced,
or witness to be examined.
(2) Wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by an Appellate
Court, the Court shall record the reason for its admission."
xxx xxx xxx "Order 42. APPEALS FROM APPELLATE DECREES
1\. PROCEDURE:- The Rules of Order XLI shall apply, so far as may be to
appeals from appellate decrees."
9\. Section 100 of the Code provides that the High Court has jurisdiction to
interfere with the Judgment of the first Appellate Court only on a substantial
question of law. The Section, after the 1976 amendment even requires the High
Court to formulate the substantial question of law required to be considered
in a second appeal even at the stage of admitting the appeal. Section 103 of
the Code empowers the High Court to determine any issue which had not been
determined by the trial Court or the Appellate Court, if only the evidence on
record is sufficient. Section 107 of the Code specifies the powers of the
First Appellate Court which includes the power to take or receive additional
evidence: Section 108 makes the provision of Section 107 applicable to appeals
against appellate decrees, 'so far as may be'. As far as Order 41, Rule 27 is
concerned, it applies to first appeals. This provision like Section 107
expressly provides that the first Appellate Court has got the power to receive
additional evidence:
(i) if the first Appellate Court had refused to admit evidence which ought to
have been admitted [vide Clause (a)].
(ii) that if the party seeking to produce evidence establishes that
notwithstanding the exercise of due diligence, the evidence had not come to
his knowledge and therefore could not produce it in the Court below [vide
Clause (aa)]; and
(iii) the Appellate Court requires any evidence to be adduced in order to
enable it to pronounce Judgment or for any other substantial cause (vide
Clause (c)].
Order 42 of the Code expressly provides that the provisions contained in Order
41 includes Order 41, Rule 27, shall apply to Second Appeal 'so far as may
be'. Great stress was laid by the learned Counsel for the respondent on the
words 'so far as may be' used in Section 108 as also in Order 42. The learned
Counsel submitted that as the jurisdiction of the High Court in a Second
Appeal is limited to only substantial questions of law in view of the clear
language of Section 100 read with Section 103 of the Code, the provisions of
Order 41, Rule 27 cannot be invoked at all. As against this, Sri T.S.
Ramachandra, the learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the very
fact that Order 42 provides that the provisions contained in the previous
Chapter also applies to second appeals would show that the provisions of Order
41 Rule 27 also applies. He submitted that if the intention of the Legislature
was that the provisions of Order 41 Rule 27 cannot be invoked in an appeal
presented under Section 100 of the Code, the Legislature would have expressly
stated so.
10\. As seen earlier, there has been divergence of opinion on the question of
admissibility of additional evidence in a Second Appeal. The question has been
considered by the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of
Laxminarayan. In the said case, reliance was placed on the Decision of the
learned Judge of this Court in the case of Balwant Yadneswar in support of the
proposition that no additional evidence can be received in a Second Appeal.
The Division Bench of the Bombay High Court disagreed with the said view and
gave reasons in support of disagreement. Relevant portion of the Judgment
reads:-
"Order XLII of the Code of Civil Procedure, which deals with appeals from
appellate decrees, has only one Rule and that Rule provides that the Rules of
XLII shall apply, as far as may be, to appeals from appellate decrees. Now,
Rule 1 of Order XLII, thus makes applicable such provisions of Order XLI as
are possible to be applied in the case of appeals from the appellate decrees.
The view which seems to have been taken by the Mysore High Court appears to be
that the applicability of the provisions of Order XLI, Rule 27, of the Code of
Civil Procedure in a second appeal is ruled out because of the fact that the
power of the High Court to decide a question of fact is circumscribed by
Section 103. It has, therefore, to be found out whether on a proper
construction of provisions of Section 103 of the Code of Civil Procedure it
can be said that that provision in any way disables the High Court to decide a
question of fact in a second appeal. Section 103 has to be read with Section
100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Section 100 provides that a second appeal
shall lie to the High Court on any of the grounds specified in Clauses (a) to
(c) of that section. It is well established that a finding of fact given by
the first appellate Court will, in a case where any of the Clause (a), (b) and
(c) is attracted, be vitiated and is liable to be set aside. It is not the law
that under no circumstances the High Court sitting in second appeal can
interfere with a finding of fact, if the finding of fact is vitiated by an
error of law, then that finding will not be binding in second appeal. The
grounds on which a finding of fact may be vitiated are limited, no doubt, by
the provisions of Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Now, if a
finding of fact is vitiated on a ground which is covered by Section 100 of the
Code, the question is what further course the High Court is to follow in a
second appeal. Does it have jurisdiction to give a fresh finding in place of a
finding which has been vitiated or has it the only alternative to remand the
appeal back to the first Appellate Court, or in a given case, to the trial
Court to give a finding of fact afresh because the finding of fact given by
the lower Appellate Court or given by the trial Court and confirmed by the
lower Appellate Court has been set aside. Now, the provision analogous to
Section 103 was not to be found in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882."
The Division Bench considered the various Decisions in which divergence of
opinions were expressed on the point and concluded thus:-
"The sufficiency of evidence contemplated by Section 103 of the Code is
sufficiency for the purpose of passing or pronouncing a proper Judgment. If in
a given case the High Court becomes to the conclusion that a finding of fact
is vitiated and that for the purpose of pronouncing a proper Judgment the
evidence on record is not sufficient and the evidence sought to be made
available by a party under Order XLI, Rule 27, of the Code of Civil Procedure
fills up that lacuna so that if that is taken into consideration a proper
Judgment can be pronounced, we fail to see anything in the provisions of
Section 103 which would restrict the powers of the High Court to admit such
additional evidence.
The construction which is placed on Section 103 by the Mysore High Court is
sound, in certain circumstances, to result in manifest injustice and
prolonging of litigation. Under Clause (a) of Rule 27(1) of Order XLI an
Appellate Court has jurisdiction to allow evidence which a Court from whose
decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit it though the evidence
ought to have been admitted. To take an illustration, supposing certain
documents which are under law admissible as evidence have been rejected both
by the trial Court and the first Appellate Court and the High Court is
satisfied that the evidence has been wrongly rejected, is the High Court left
only with the option of sending the matter back for the limited purpose of
admitting those documents and to deny itself the jurisdiction to give a fresh
finding after consideration of such evidence which ought to have been rightly
admitted? To hold so would obviously be unjust. If the documents were entitled
to be admitted there is clear jurisdiction in the High Court under Rule 28 of
XLI to take such evidence itself and there is nothing in Section 103 of the
Code of Civil Procedure which can be read as depriving the High Court of its
jurisdiction to give a finding of fact after considering such evidence which
was wrongly left out of consideration."
xxx xxx xxx "The view which we have taken that it is open to the High Court in
second appeal to admit additional evidence under Order XLI, Rule 27, Code of
Civil Procedure, if the conditions laid down in that Rule are satisfied is
supported by the decisions of the High Courts of Andhra Pradesh, Assam,
Gujarat and the Madras decision to which we have already made a reference. In
Venku Reddi v. Pichi Reddi [(1956) AIR Andhra 250] the Andhra Pradesh High
Court has held that there is nothing either in Section 103 or in Order XLI,
Rule 27, Civil Procedure Code, which excludes the applicability of the latter
provision to second appeals and that the terms of Rule 27 are general in
application and in an appropriate case it is open to the High Court in second
appeal to admit additional evidence. The learned Judge, who decided that case,
dissented from the decision in Subba Raja v. Narayana Raja. In Braja Behari v.
Chitta Ranjan [(1958) AIR A & N 19] a Division Bench of that Court, after
referring to the Decision of the Supreme Court in K. Venkataramaiah v.
Seetharama Reddy, held that the High Court would be justified in allowing
additional evidence to be adduced in second appeal before it and accordingly
accepted certain documents filed before it as additional evidence. In S.B.
Kapadia v. V.B. Kapadia [(1967) AIR Guj, 87], it was held that while it was
true that the High Court was not expected to go into pure questions of fact,
unless they fall under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, additional
evidence can be admitted either for enabling the Court to pronounce Judgment
or for any other substantial cause, under Order XLI, Rule 27 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, and by reason of Order XLII of the Code of Civil Procedure,
the provisions contained in Order XLI are made applicable, so far as may be,
to appeals from appellate decrees. With reference to facts of that case the
Gujarat High Court observed that while it is open to the Court to allow
additional evidence under Order XLI, Rule 27(1)(b) in the circumstances set
out in that case there hardly appeared any justification for that Court to
allow any such additional evidence at such a late stage and that too for the
purpose of filling in, as it were, the lacuna by the production of such
evidence in support of the plaintiff's claim about his ownership of the wall
in question.
On a review of these authorities and on a construction of provisions of
Section 103 and Orders XLI and XLII of the Code of Civil Procedure we must
come to the conclusion that there is no absolute bar to receiving additional
evidence by the High Court in second appeal."
The learned Counsel for the respondent, however, pointed out that a learned
Judge of the Gujarat High Court had dissented from the view taken by the
Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Laxminarayan's case. Relevant
portion of the Judgment of the Gujarat High Court is extracted earlier.
11\. After giving careful consideration to the view expressed by the learned
Judge of this Court in the case of Balwant and the view expressed by the
Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, in which the view taken by this Court
was dissented from, and the view expressed by the learned Judge of the Gujarat
High Court in which the view expressed by the Division Bench of the Bombay
High Court was dissented from, we are pursuaded to agree with the
interpretation of the relevant provision, as given by the Division Bench of
the Bombay High Court. We receive support for this view from the Judgment of
the Supreme Court in BALAICHANDRA v. SHEWDHARI JADAV, . The question for
consideration by the Supreme Court in the said case was, as to the scope of
Clause 15 of Letters Patent of the Calcutta High Court, under which an appeal
lay to a Division Bench of the same High Court, from a Decision rendered by a
learned Judge in a Second Appeal under Section 100 of the Code of Civil
Procedure in the context of a new or fresh disputed question of fact required
to be resolved in view of allowing the amendment of pleadings. The Supreme
Court held that in such a case, in view of Sections 100 and 103 of the C.P.C.
the High Court could not record a finding of fact on such new disputed
question of fact, but the only course open was to remit the case to the Court
below. Relevant portion of the Judgment reads:-
"9. There is a near concensus amongst the various High Courts that ordinarily
an appellant is not entitled in an appeal under Clause 15 to be heard on
points which have not been raised before the Judge from whose Judgment the
appeal is preferred. Now, if in second appeal the findings 6f fact recorded by
the first appellate Court are taken as binding unless fresh additional
evidence is permitted to be led when again appreciation of evidence to record
a finding of fact would become necessary, that position is not altered even if
amendment of pleadings is granted which puts into controversy some new facts
alleged in amended pleadings and therefore the Court hearing the second appeal
after granting amendment could not take over the function of the trial Court
or the first Appellate Court and undertake appreciation of evidence and record
findings of evidence and record findings of facts. That is not the function
envisaged by the Code of the Court hearing second appeal under Section 100.
This become crystal clear from the provision contained in Section 103 which
defines the power of the High Court to determine a question of fact while
hearing second appeal. But this power of the Court is limited to evidence on
record which again is sufficient to determine an issue of fact necessary for
disposal of the appeal and which has not been determined by the lower
Appellate Court or which has been wrongly determined by such Court. When
pleadings are amended at the stage of the appeal under Clause 15 of the
Letters Patent and fresh allegations of facts are thus introduced in the
controversy which necessitate additional evidence being permitted it would not
be open to the Court to proceed to record evidence and to appreciate the
evidence and record findings of fact, a function which even ordinarily is not
undertaken by the High Court hearing the second appeal, much less can it be
done while hearing an appeal under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent. When on
account of a subsequent change in law, amendment of the pleadings is granted
which raises disputed questions of fact, the situation would not be one
governed by Order 41 Rule 27. At that stage it could not be said that the
appellate Court is permitting production of additional evidence, oral or
documentary on the ground that the Court from whose decree the appeal is
preferred has refused to adduce evidence which ought to have been admitted or
the appellate Court requires any documents to be produced or any witness to be
examined to enable it to pronounce Judgment. Nor would the situation be one
which could be covered under the expression "other substantial cause". Once
pleadings are permitted to be amended which bring into focus altogether new or
fresh disputed questions of fact which have to be resolved on additional
evidence that would be necessary to be led, the function is one of
appreciation of evidence more appropriately to be undertaken by the trial
Court or at the most the first Appellate Court but not the High Court hearing
the second appeal or an appeal under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent. It is
not for a moment suggested that at the stage at which leave to amend pleadings
has been granted the High Court was not competent to grant it. In fact, in an
identical situation in B. Banerjee's case (supra) this Court had in terms
indicated that to avoid hardship to the plaintiff landlord the appropriate
thing would be to grant leave to amend the pleading and give an equal
opportunity to the defendant to controvert if he so chooses what the plaintiff
contends by amended pleading. But once that is done immediately the question
of jurisdiction of the Court hearing the appeal under Clause 15 of the Letters
Patent would arise and if the appeal was entertained against the Judgment
rendered by the High Court in second appeal the limitations on the power of
the High Court hearing the second appeal will ipso facto limit and
circumscribe the jurisdiction of the appellate Bench. If the High Court while
hearing second appeal, conceding that it would have allowed amendment of
pleading, where the amended pleadings substantially raise disputed questions
of fact which need resolution afresh after additional evidence, could not
undertake the exercise of recording evidence and appreciating it and recording
findings of fact, but could appropriately remand the case to the trial Court,
the Bench hearing the appeal against the Judgment in second appeal could not
enlarge its jurisdiction by undertaking that forbidden exercise. It would,
therefore, appear that when a Bench of a High Court is hearing an appeal
preferred upon a certificate granted under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent by
a single Judge of the High Court who by his Judgment has disposed of the
second appeal, the appellate Bench would be subject to the limitation on its
power and jurisdiction to appreciate or reappreciate evidence and to record
findings of fact which were never raised before the trial Court or the first
appellate Court, as the pleadings were permitted to be amended by it and the
question was raised for the first time before it, to the same extent as the
High Court hearing second appeal with constraints of Sections 100 and 103 of
the Code. It must be distinctly understood that admitting evidence is entirely
different from appreciating it and acting upon it. The Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council in Indrajit Pratap Bahadur Sahai v. Amar Singh, 50 Ind App
183: (AIR 1923 PC 128), was concerned with the ambit of jurisdiction of the
appellate Court to admit evidence under Order 41, Rule 27. It was held that
the jurisdiction can be exercised at the instance of a party and the Judicial
Committee has unrestricted power to admit documents where sufficient grounds
have been shown for their having not been produced at the initiate stage of
the litigation. This view was affirmed by this Court in Surinder Kumar v. Gian
Chand, . But that has no relevance to the situation under discussion here."
xxx xxx xxx "18. Accordingly, this appeal is allowed and the decree for
eviction made by all the Courts against the appellant is set aside and the
suit is remanded to the trial Court to proceed further from the stage after
amendments of pleadings were granted by the High Court and the relevant issues
were framed pursuant to the amended pleadings. In the circumstances of this
case there shall be no order as to costs of appeal in this Court."
(Underlined by us) As can be seen from the above paragraphs, the Supreme Court
has observed that finding of fact recorded by the First Appellate Court was
binding in Second Appeal, unless fresh additional evidence is admitted, which
necessitates the recording of a finding of fact based upon such additional
evidence. This observation clearly implies that there is jurisdiction under
Order 41 Rule 27 read with Order 42 of the Code to admit additional evidence
in Second Appeal, if grounds specified in Order 41 Rule 27 are made out in a
given case. The Supreme Court has also further pointed out that there is a
clear distinction between the restriction on the jurisdiction of the High
Courts under Section 100 read with Section 103 of the C.P.C. and admitting of
additional evidence in a Second Appeal. The clear purport of the ratio is that
if the High Court in exercise of its power under Order 41 Rule 27 decides to
admit additional evidence in a Second Appeal, as such admission necessitates
the recording of a finding of fact based upon such additional evidence and as
it cannot be done in a Second Appeal in view of Section 100 read with Section
103 of the C.P.C., the matter should be remitted to either of the Courts
below. Therefore, it is clear if we were to permit the appellant to adduce
additional evidence in this Second Appeal under Clause (aa) of Order 41 Rule
27, inserted into the Code by a Karnataka Amendment, on the ground that he was
prevented from adducing the particular evidence inspite of his diligence, and
if the same had been secured and was produced, it might have resulted in a
decision in his favour, all that we could do is to admit the additional
evidence, set aside the Judgment and Decree of the Court below and remit the
matter either to the First Appellate Court or the trial Court as considered
expedient by us, but we cannot on the basis of additional evidence received in
the second appeal, reverse the finding of fact recorded by the First Appellate
Court, in view of the limitation placed on the jurisdiction in a Second Appeal
under Sections 100 and 103 of the C.P.C. Therefore, we are of the opinion that
the construction sought to be placed on the provision of Sections 107 and 108
and Order 42 read with Order 41 Rule 27(aa), read with Sections 100 and 103 of
the Code, by the learned Counsel for the respondent, is such, as would defeat
the object and purpose of Order 41 Rule 27(aa), which has been incorporated to
ensure that justice is not defeated in cases where a party was not aware of
evidence in his favour and which inspite of the exercise of diligence he could
not secure and adduce it before the trial Court or the First Appellate Court.
We fail to see, how a rational distinction can be made in this behalf between
a First Appeal and a Second Appeal. If the ground mentioned in Order 41 Rule
27(aa) constitutes a valid ground for admitting additional evidence in a First
Appeal, in our opinion, it must be so even in respect of a Second Appeal.
Therefore, in our opinion, Sections 100 and 103, Sections 107 and 108, Order
41 Rule 27 and Order 42 should be harmoniously construed so as to advance the
remedy and do Justice to a party, who, inspite of exercise of diligence was
unaware of an evidence in his favour and prays that the same be received as
additional evidence in Second Appeal. So construed, we are of the view that if
conditions specified in Order 41 Rule 27(aa) are satisfied, the Court can
allow the production of additional evidence in a Second Appeal subject to the
condition that reasons should be recorded as required under Order 47 Rule
27(2) and subject to the condition that the interest of the party in whose
favour a finding of fact has already been recorded should not be adversely
affected, in that the order of remand should ensure that except on the basis
of additional evidence the finding of fact recorded earlier on the basis of
evidence already on record should not be reversed.
12\. To these reasons, we answer the Question set out first as follows:
"In a Second Appeal presented before this Court under Section 100 of the
C.P.C. this Court has the power to allow a party to produce additional
evidence if the conditions specified in Clause (aa) of Order 41, Rule 27 are
satisfied, but when so received the only course open to this Court is to remit
the matter to the Court below with a direction that a finding of fact recorded
earlier shall not be reversed except on the basis of the additional evidence.
13\. Now the next question for consideration is whether there is any
justification to permit the appellant to adduce additional evidence. The
documents sought to be produced by the appellant are certified copies of the
two documents registered in the office of the Sub-Registrar, Kolar, and the
third document sought to be produced is the correct certified copy of the
Record of Rights in which there is reference to the two registered documents.
Prima facie, we have to proceed on the basis that the two Sale Deeds being
documents registered in the office of the Sub-Registrar more than 35 years ago
are genuine. The question, however, for consideration is, is it true that the
appellant had no knowledge of these documents and inspite of diligence he
could not secure these documents and produce them in the Court below? The
appellant is an uneducated ignorant villager. He says on oath that he was not
aware of the two registered documents. Significantly in the certified copy of
Record of Rights produced by the respondent (Ex.P-22) though there ought to
have been a reference to the two documents, there was no reference, which
indicates some foul-play in issuing the said certified copy and that it was
only after making inquiry with the aid of his friends, after the Judgment of
the First Appellate Court and he took the correct certified copy of the R of R
on 13-11-1978, he came to know about the two registered documents and
thereafter he took the certified copies of the same and made an application
under Order 41, Rule. 27. The plea of the respondent is that her father died
in the year 1949 itself and therefore the two documents were not genuine. The
learned Counsel for the appellant, however, pointed out that according to the
entries in the Record of Rights (Ext.P-22) produced by respondent herself,
there was another Sale Deed executed by one Munibyrappa in favour of
Hanumanthappa on 8-1-1951, vide Entry No. 809 and this shows that
Hanumanthappa was alive in 1951. In the circumstances, it appears to us the
question as to whether these two documents were those really executed by
Hanumanthappa or not cannot be considered by us. The only question we have to
consider is whether the three documents should be admitted as additional
evidence before this Court in the Second Appeal. On the facts and
circumstances, we are satisfied that prima facie the two documents being
certified copies of registered documents registered in the office of the Sub-
Registrar as on 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 should be received as additional
evidence, for, we are also satisfied that the appellant, even with the
exercise of 'due' diligence could not produce them in the Court below. In this
behalf, it is significant to note that in Ex.P-22, the certified copy of the
Record of Rights produced by the respondent, entry relating to registration of
Sale Deed dated 11-3-1948 is not found, though its Sl. No. was 778, whereas
subsequent entries bearing Sl. Nos. 807, 809 and 854 were shown. It is also
pertinent to note, if the appellant really had the knowledge of the two
documents he would not have failed to produce them, as they were sufficient to
have the suit filed by the respondent dismissed. We should, however, make it
clear that the respondent has the liberty to contest the genuineness of these
documents on whatever ground she considers expedient.
14\. The next point for consideration is, what is the type of order that
should be passed so that no prejudice should be caused to the respondent in
the event of a finding by the Court below that even on the basis of the
additional evidence no case is made out for the appellant. For that purpose,
we consider it expedient to make it clear that if only on the basis of
additional documents received by us a finding were to be recorded by the Court
below in favour of the appellant, the Judgment and Decree should go in his
favour and if not the finding already recorded on the basis of evidence by the
trial Court and the First Appellate Court should remain undisturbed and
consequently Judgment should be rendered once again on that basis.
15\. In the result, we make the following order:-
(1) The application for receiving additional evidence is allowed and copies of
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
additional documents are not genuine for any reason or even on the basis of
those documents no finding could be recorded in favour of the appellant, then
the First Appellate Court shall proceed to pass final Judgment and decree on
the basis of the findings already recorded in the Judgment under appeal.
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
declaration and possession of the very property purchased by the appellant
under the two registered Sale Deeds from Hanumanthappa. The case of the
respondent-plaintiff was that on the date on which the appellant purchased the
two items of lands from Hanumanthappa, he had no title as he had sold the said
items of lands by registered Sale Deed dated 23-7-1947 (marked as Ex.P.1) in
favour of one Munibyrappa and the respondent-plaintiff purchased the same from
the said Munibyrappa by registered Sale Deed dated 4-10-1947 (Ex.P.2). One of
the main issues for consideration before the Court of Munsiff was, as to
whether the plea of the respondent that on the date on which the appellant
claimed that he had purchased the suit schedule lands under two registered
Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 (Ex.D.4) and 5-6-1953 (Ex.D.5) from Hanumanthappa,
he did not acquire any right or title to the property, for the reason that on
the said date Hanumanthappa did not have any title to the property, he having
sold the same to Munibyrappa on 23-4-1947 (Ex.P-1) and the same having been
purchased by the respondent from him under registered Sale Deed dated
4-12-1947 (Ex.P-2) was correct. The trial Court recorded a finding in favour
of the respondent and decreed the suit. Aggrieved by the Judgment and Decree
of the Court of Munsiff, the appellant preferred an Appeal before the
Principal Civil Judge, Kolar. The Appellate Court affirmed the findings
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
declaration and possession of the very property purchased by the appellant
under the two registered Sale Deeds from Hanumanthappa. The case of the
respondent-plaintiff was that on the date on which the appellant purchased the
two items of lands from Hanumanthappa, he had no title as he had sold the said
items of lands by registered Sale Deed dated 23-7-1947 (marked as Ex.P.1) in
favour of one Munibyrappa and the respondent-plaintiff purchased the same from
the said Munibyrappa by registered Sale Deed dated 4-10-1947 (Ex.P.2). One of
the main issues for consideration before the Court of Munsiff was, as to
whether the plea of the respondent that on the date on which the appellant
claimed that he had purchased the suit schedule lands under two registered
Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 (Ex.D.4) and 5-6-1953 (Ex.D.5) from Hanumanthappa,
he did not acquire any right or title to the property, for the reason that on
the said date Hanumanthappa did not have any title to the property, he having
sold the same to Munibyrappa on 23-4-1947 (Ex.P-1) and the same having been
purchased by the respondent from him under registered Sale Deed dated
4-12-1947 (Ex.P-2) was correct. The trial Court recorded a finding in favour
of the respondent and decreed the suit. Aggrieved by the Judgment and Decree
of the Court of Munsiff, the appellant preferred an Appeal before the
Principal Civil Judge, Kolar. The Appellate Court affirmed the findings
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
declaration and possession of the very property purchased by the appellant
under the two registered Sale Deeds from Hanumanthappa. The case of the
respondent-plaintiff was that on the date on which the appellant purchased the
two items of lands from Hanumanthappa, he had no title as he had sold the said
items of lands by registered Sale Deed dated 23-7-1947 (marked as Ex.P.1) in
favour of one Munibyrappa and the respondent-plaintiff purchased the same from
the said Munibyrappa by registered Sale Deed dated 4-10-1947 (Ex.P.2). One of
the main issues for consideration before the Court of Munsiff was, as to
whether the plea of the respondent that on the date on which the appellant
claimed that he had purchased the suit schedule lands under two registered
Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 (Ex.D.4) and 5-6-1953 (Ex.D.5) from Hanumanthappa,
he did not acquire any right or title to the property, for the reason that on
the said date Hanumanthappa did not have any title to the property, he having
sold the same to Munibyrappa on 23-4-1947 (Ex.P-1) and the same having been
purchased by the respondent from him under registered Sale Deed dated
4-12-1947 (Ex.P-2) was correct. The trial Court recorded a finding in favour
of the respondent and decreed the suit. Aggrieved by the Judgment and Decree
of the Court of Munsiff, the appellant preferred an Appeal before the
Principal Civil Judge, Kolar. The Appellate Court affirmed the findings
recorded by the Court of the Munsiff and dismissed the Appeal presented by the
appellant. Along with this Appeal presented under Section 100 of the C.P.C.,
the appellant has made an application for receiving certified copies of two
registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951, which are produced along
with the application and the certified copy of the Record of Rights in which
there are entries about the aforesaid two Sale Deeds. The appellant has stated
in the application that the respondent after purchasing the suit schedule land
under registered Sale Deed dated 4-12-1947 from Munibyrappa had sold the
property once again in favour of Munibyrappa on 11-3-1948 and Munibyrappa had
in turn sold the property in favour of Hanumanthappa by registered Sale Deed
dated 8-1-1951 and it is only thereafter the appellant purchased the land from
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
O.S. No. 41 of 1974 was filed by respondent Chikkapapamma praying for
declaration and possession of the very property purchased by the appellant
under the two registered Sale Deeds from Hanumanthappa. The case of the
respondent-plaintiff was that on the date on which the appellant purchased the
two items of lands from Hanumanthappa, he had no title as he had sold the said
items of lands by registered Sale Deed dated 23-7-1947 (marked as Ex.P.1) in
favour of one Munibyrappa and the respondent-plaintiff purchased the same from
the said Munibyrappa by registered Sale Deed dated 4-10-1947 (Ex.P.2). One of
the main issues for consideration before the Court of Munsiff was, as to
whether the plea of the respondent that on the date on which the appellant
claimed that he had purchased the suit schedule lands under two registered
Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 (Ex.D.4) and 5-6-1953 (Ex.D.5) from Hanumanthappa,
he did not acquire any right or title to the property, for the reason that on
the said date Hanumanthappa did not have any title to the property, he having
sold the same to Munibyrappa on 23-4-1947 (Ex.P-1) and the same having been
purchased by the respondent from him under registered Sale Deed dated
4-12-1947 (Ex.P-2) was correct. The trial Court recorded a finding in favour
of the respondent and decreed the suit. Aggrieved by the Judgment and Decree
of the Court of Munsiff, the appellant preferred an Appeal before the
Principal Civil Judge, Kolar. The Appellate Court affirmed the findings
recorded by the Court of the Munsiff and dismissed the Appeal presented by the
appellant. Along with this Appeal presented under Section 100 of the C.P.C.,
the appellant has made an application for receiving certified copies of two
registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951, which are produced along
with the application and the certified copy of the Record of Rights in which
there are entries about the aforesaid two Sale Deeds. The appellant has stated
in the application that the respondent after purchasing the suit schedule land
under registered Sale Deed dated 4-12-1947 from Munibyrappa had sold the
property once again in favour of Munibyrappa on 11-3-1948 and Munibyrappa had
in turn sold the property in favour of Hanumanthappa by registered Sale Deed
dated 8-1-1951 and it is only thereafter the appellant purchased the land from
the two registered Sale Deeds dated 11-3-1948 and 8-1-1951 and the certified
copy of the Record of Rights dated 13-11-1978 are received as additional
evidence.
(2) The Judgment and Decree of the First Appellate Court are set aside and the
matter is remanded to the First Appellate Court to record a finding on the
issue as to whether the vendor of the appellant had a valid title in respect
of the suit schedule lands when he sold them to the appellant under the two
registered Sale Deeds dated 8-1-1951 and 5-6-1953 after giving opportunity to
both the parties to adduce evidence regarding the genuineness of the two
registered Sale Deeds admitted as additional evidence and in the light of the
said additional evidence.
(3) If the Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the additional
documents are genuine and the vendor of the appellant had the title to sell
the property to the appellant then the First Appellate Court shall proceed to
pass appropriate Judgment and decree.
(4) If, however, the First Appellate Court comes to the conclusion that the
