Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Subramaniam Hariharan, New Delhi vs Acit Circle-61(1), New Delhi on 6
November, 2020
                IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                     [DELHI BENCH "D": NEW DELHI]
          BEFORE MS. SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JUDICIAL MEMBER,
                               &
          SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                               ITA. No. 7418/Del/2019
                               Assessment Year: 2015-16.
       Shri Hariharan Subramaniam,          Vs    The Assistant Commissioner of
                                                           Income Tax
        Subramaniam& Associates                      Circle 61(1) New Delhi
     Attorneys-at-Law, Centra Square                       Respondent
     Attorneys-at-Law, Centra Square
       Manohar Lal Khurana Marg,
    Bara Hindu Rao ( off Jhanshi Road
            New Delhi 110006
           Pan AABPH0358K
               ( Appellant)
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
               ( Appellant)
                 Assessee by                   Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate;
                                                  Shri Neeraj Jain, Advocate;
                                             Sh. Aditya Vohra, Adv. & Sh. Arpit
                                                         Goyal , C.A.
                For Revenue                      Shri Satpal Gulati CIT DR
                                                   Shri G Jhonson Sr DR
    Date of hearing                                09/1/2020 & 7/8/2020
    Date of Order                                          06.11.2020
                                    ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A.M.:
01\. This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-44, New Delhi,[ The ld CIT (A)] dated
23.08.2019 for assessment year 2015-16 wherein he upheld the disallowance of
Rs 3,70,95,299/- made by the ld AO u/s 40 a(i) of The Income tax Act [ the
Act] for non deduction of tax at source on payments made by assessee of
professional charges to counsel/ lawyers outside India. Also disallowance of
foreign travel expenses was confirmed.
02\. The facts of the case shows that assessee is an Advocate by profession,
filed his return of income on 30.09.2015 declaring an income of Rs.
3,51,18,400/- The learned Assessing Officer passed an order under Section
143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act) on 29.12.2017 at Rs.
7,33,37,010/-.
03\. The learned Assessing Officer made disallowance under Section 40a(i) of
the Act of Rs. 3,70,95,299/- for non-deduction of tax at source of payment
made of professional charges and official fees to the foreign associates
holding that under the provisions of the Income Tax Act Income Tax should have
been deducted on these payments u/s 195 of The Act.
Page | 2
04\. The second addition of Rs. 11,23,312/- was made on account of foreign
travel expenditure being 10 per cent of the total expenditure amounting to Rs.
11,23,312/-.
05\. Against this order, assessee preferred an appeal before the Ld CIT
(A)-44, New Delhi, who passed an order on 23.08.2019 confirming the order of
the Assessing Officer with respect to disallowance under Section 40a(ia) of
the Act and further disallowance @ 10% out of foreign travel expenditure.
Therefore, assessee is in appeal before us, raising the following grounds of
appeal:
"1. That the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) ("CIT(A)"] erred on facts
and in law in upholding the order of the assessing officer assessing the
income of the Appellant at Rs.7,33,37,010 against Rs.3,51,18,400 returned by
the Appellant.
2\. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding disallowance of
expenditure of Rs.3,62,45,557, being payments made to non-resident entities
towards legal services, invoking section 40(a)(i) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
("the Act") for the alleged failure of the Appellant to deduct tax at source
therefrom under section 195 of the Act.
2.1. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding the allegation of
the assessing officer that payments made by the Appellant to the foreign law
firms were towards legal services involving special knowledge and experience
of the relevant laws of the respective countries which partake the nature of
consultancy and, therefore, were to be regarded as Fees for Technical Services
("FTS").
Page | 3 2.2. That the CIT(A) grossly erred on facts and in law in not
appreciating that the said payments were in the nature of 'professional fee'
for professional services rendered by the foreign law firms, which is separate
and distinct from FTS, and is not taxable in the source country both under the
Act and the applicable Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements and therefore, not
liable for deduction of tax at source under section 195 of the Act.
3\. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding ad-hoc disallowance
of Rs.11,23,312 made by the assessing officer, being 10% of total foreign
travelling expenses which were claimed as deduction under section 37(1) of the
Act by the Appellant.
3.1 That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in upholding the said ad-hoc
disallowance on the alleged ground that full and proper supporting documents
regarding incurring of such expense were not furnished by the Appellant."
06\. Ground number 1 of the appeal is general in nature, no specific arguments
were advanced, and therefore, same is dismissed.
07\. The second ground of appeal is against the disallowance confirmed by the
learned CIT - A u/s 40 (a) (i) of the act of fees for professional services
rendered by foreign practitioners on which no tax is deducted by the assessee.
The Appellant, during the relevant previous year, in the course of rendering
legal services in the field of IP Laws, availed services of foreign legal
practitioners being individual lawyers/ law firms, on behalf of its clients
located in India for filing of patent applications in such foreign countries.
In respect of the aforesaid services, the Appellant made payments aggregating
to Rs. 8,73,50,448 for Page | 4 availing legal services on behalf of its
clients, to non-residents, including individual lawyers/ law firms/ companies.
The assessing officer disallowed payments amounting to Rs. 3,62,45,557 made to
the foreign law firms/ legal practitioners for the aforesaid professional
services, invoking provisions of section 40(a)(i) of the Act, allegedly
holding that the said payments were in the nature of Fees for Technical
Services ("FTS") and therefore, were chargeable to tax in India. Details of
such payment of fees specifying the name of the country and the status of the
recipient is tabulated as Under:-
> S. No. Country Recipient of Legal status Amount professional fee of
> recipient (Rs.) 1 Australia Davies Collison Partnership 5,45,595 Cave Firm
> Griffith Hack Partnership 6,79,205 Firm Lesicar Murray Partnership 12,646
> Trento Firm Lesicar Perrin Partnership 29,615 Firm Lesicarf Maynard Company
> 62,158 Andrews Pty Ltd Pizzeys Company 23,003 2 Brazil Martinez &
> Partnership 12,66,391 Associados firm 3 China Kangxin Partners, Company
> 2,15,389 P.C.
                               Lehman, Lee & Xu      Partnership          77,976
                                                     firm
                               Unitalen              Partnership       18,41,572
                                                                     Page | 5
                                              firm
    4    Colombia      Clarke, Modet & Company                     99,682
                       Co
    5    Czech         Patentservis          Company               40,983
         Republic
    6    Denmark       Zacco Denmark         Partnership        15,25,359
                                             firm
    7    Indonesia     Amr Partnership       Partnership           23,426
                                             firm
                       George Widjojo & Partnership               1,33,421
                       Partners         firm
    8    Japan         Seiwa     Patent   & Partnership         10,24,465
                       Law                  firm
                       Shiga International Partnership          20,56,746
                       Patent Office       firm
                       Shimizu        Patent Proprietorship       9,84,308
                       Office                / Individual
    9    Luxembourg    Dennemyer & Co.       Company            61,85,901
    10   Malaysia      Advanz   Fidelis Company                   1,00,296
                       SDN.BHD.
                       Marks      &   Clerk Partnership           2,51,428
                       LLP.                 firm
                       RamRais            & Partnership            13,577
                       Partners             firm
    11   Mexico        Baudelio & Cia        Company            21,00,913
    12   New Zealand   Baldwins              Partnership        13,68,129
                                             firm
    13   Norway        Hamso Patentbyra      Partnership          2,11,339
                                             firm
    14   Philippines   Angara     Abello Partnership              4,64,877
                       Concepcion Regala firm
                       & Cruz
    15   Republic of Y.S.      Chang      & Proprietorship         20,518
                                                              Page | 6
          Korea          Associates            / Individual
                        First law PC          Partnership        7,10,446
                                              firm
                        Hanyang              Partnership         5,19,585
                        International Patent firm
                        & Law Firm
                        Muhann Patent & Partnership              5,95,968
                        Law Firm        firm
                        Y.P. Lee, Mock & Partnership             6,81,006
                        Partners         firm
    16   Russia         Gorodisskey        & Partnership       30,99,452
                        Partners             firm
    17   Sebia          Ristic & Malesevic Government             51,511
                        of Patent Bureau   organization
    18   South Africa   D.M. Kisch. INC.      Company          46,99,667
                        Edward     Nathan Company                   8,762
                        Sonnenbergs Inc.
                        Von Seidels           Partnership        1,09,423
                                              firm
    19   Sri Lanka      Murugesu           & Partnership          37,073
                        Neelakandan          firm
                        Neelakandan        & Partnership          83,363
                        Neelakandan          firm
    20   Thailand       Tilleke & Gibbins Company                2,82,736
                        International
                        Limited
    21   UAE            United Trademark Partnership           36,32,983
                        & Patent Services firm
    22   Vietnam        Tran H. N.         & Company             3,74,665
                        Associates
                          Total                              3,62,45,558
                                                             Page | 7
     08.   Contesting the above disallowance             learned Authorised
> Representative referred to the facts of the case and made broad proposition
> as under:
> i. That the services received by the appellant are not in the nature of
> managerial, technical or consultancy services but are purely professional
> services. He referred to the nature of the services and submitted that tax
> is required to be deducted at source only on payments which are chargeable
> to tax in India. He stated that as the payments made by the appellant were
> for the availing of professional services and was not in the nature of fees
> for technical services, thus, not chargeable to tax u/s 4 read with Section
> 5 and Section 9 of the income tax act. He submitted that to fall those
> services within the chargeable ambit of the Indian income tax act, they
> should satisfy the definition of 'managerial, technical or consultancy
> services'. He referred to the many judicial precedents to support his
> contentions. He referred to the provisions of Section 194J of the act which
> requires deduction of tax in payment is made to a resident and submitted
> that 'professional services' is a separate category of services recognised
> as distinct from 'fees for technical services'. His argument was that if
> 'fees for technical services' were to include 'professional services' it
> would not have been necessary to refer to the later specifically in
> explanation (a) to Section 194J of the act and explanation
> (b) to that Section would have been sufficient. Thus it is stated that the
> services received by the appellant from the Page | 8 foreign attorneys/law
> firm/companies were purely in the nature of 'professional services' which is
> a separate category of services as compared to 'fees for technical
> services'. As no element of technical, consultancy or managerial services
> was provided by the foreign entities, the payments were not in the nature of
> 'fees for technical services' and the assessee was under no obligation to
> withhold the taxes there from.
ii. He submitted that since the payments are made by the assessee who is a
resident to a non-resident for the purpose of earning income from a source
outside India, the same are also excluded from the purview of 'fees for
technical services' in terms of Section 9 (1) (vii) (b) of the Act. He
submitted that the source of income in this case is the filing of patent
application by the foreign law firms, legal practitioners in the respective
jurisdictions outside India. iii. Without prejudice to the above proposition,
he submitted that the professional services received by the assessee are in
the nature of 'independent personal services" not liable to tax in India. He
submitted that even under the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement the services
in the nature of "legal services" are covered within the scope of
"professional services" and not as "fees for technical services". He referred
to article 14 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement and also stated that
similar definitions of professional services are also provided in many other
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements. He Page | 9 further referred to the
decision of the coordinate bench dated 10 October 2019 case of DLF Ltd versus
ITO ITA number 3253 - Delhi - 2012 wherein it has been held that the payment
made to a non-resident law firm for professional services rendered as
international counsel shall partake the nature of "independent personal
services" and not "fees for technical services". He therefore submitted that
in absence of any fixed base of the recipient in India, income was not
chargeable to tax in India and thus withholding tax was not required to be
deducted on such payment u/s 195 of the act and consequently no disallowance
u/s 40 (a) (i) of the act can be made. iv. He further submitted that in the
present case there are payments made in 12 different jurisdictions. He
submitted that for this entire jurisdiction the "independent personal
services" covers payments made to a resident. He submitted that though the
status of the foreign entity for all these jurisdictions are partnership firm,
company etc the payment of Rs 122,63,090 made by the assessee to those
jurisdictions does not require any withholding tax as it was a payment made to
the resident of that country and same is chargeable to tax in those countries.
So tax is not required to be deducted at source in India. Similarly with
respect to the payment made to Australia he submitted that "independent
personal services" covers payment made to individuals or firm of individuals
in those countries therefore the payment of ₹ 1,267,060 made in Australia to a
Page | 10 partnership firm also does not require any withholding tax in India.
He further submitted that with respect to payment of ₹ 20,518 made by the
assessee to a proper ship concern in Republic of Korea tax is not required to
be deducted at source as it relates to 'independent personal services" and
payments made to individuals only and it is chargeable to tax in the other
country.
v. Therefore summarising his arguments he submitted that the learned assessing
officer has disallowed the sum of ₹ 36,245,557 in respect of non-deduction of
tax on professional fees paid by the assessee outside India to various foreign
law firms/attorneys. Out of the above payment sum of Rs 122,63,090 relates to
the payment to the countries having Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with
India and The Independent Personal Services article covering payments to the
Resident of the contracting states on which no tax is required to be deducted.
Therefore the disallowance cannot be made.
vi. He submitted that a sum of ₹ 1,267,060 has been made to countries having
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with Independent Personal Services article
covering payments to Individuals Or Firm of individuals and therefore same is
also not chargeable to tax in India and hence no tax is required to be made,
therefore, no disallowance can be made.
vii. He submitted that sum of ₹ 20,518 relates to the payment to the countries
having Double Taxation Avoidance with Page | 11 Independent Personal Services
article covering payments to Individuals and therefore on this sum no tax is
required to be deducted as it is chargeable to tax in those countries and not
in India and therefore the disallowance for non- deduction of tax at source
cannot be made.
viii. He further stated that a sum of ₹ 22,694,889 relates to the payments to
the countries having Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement having "independent
personal services" article covering payments to individuals but the status of
foreign associates is non-individual but the income to be characterised as
business profits and not chargeable to tax in India in absence of permanent
establishment in India. ix. Therefore in nutshell his argument is that no tax
is required to be deducted at source on payment made by the assessee and
therefore the disallowance requires to be deleted
09\. In response to this the learned departmental representative vehemently
supported the order of the learned assessing officer and the learned CIT - A.
It was submitted that the professional fees paid by the assessee is chargeable
to tax in India in terms of the provisions of Section 4, 5 and Section 9 of
the act. Therefore the tax is required to be deducted thereon u/s 195 of the
act. He submitted that the learned CIT - A has correctly dealt with whole
issue in its completeness. He further extensively read the assessment order as
well as the appellate order on this issue.
10\. Subsequently, the matter was fixed for clarification on 7/8/2020, at that
particular time, the learned departmental representative submitted that the
issue is squarely covered in favour of the Page | 12 revenue by the decision
of the coordinate bench in case of ACIT V Subhatosh Majumdar (ITA number 2006
- KOL - 2017 dated 9/1/2020) wherein on identical facts and circumstances it
has been held that the tax is required to be deducted. The learned
departmental representative read the judgement of the coordinate bench to show
that the facts and circumstances of the case are similar.
11\. The learned authorised representative objected and stated that above
decision does not cover the case of the assessee and there are certain basic
differences. The learned authorised representative at that particular point
submitted that he would like to distinguish the facts of this case with the
case decided by the coordinate bench. The later on, he submitted a detailed
note on this.
12\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. We have also perused the various judicial
pronouncements read before us by both the parties. The fact shows that the
assessee is a lawyer by profession and derived income from business or
profession and income from other sources. He filed his return of income on
30/9/2015 declaring total income of ₹ 35,118,400. During the course of
assessment proceedings assessee was asked to file list of countries with which
DTAA is in force and also asked to submit the Ledger of professional fees paid
to foreign associate. Assessee submitted a chart according to which he has
paid gross professional fees during the impugned financial year ended on 31st
of March 2015 of ₹ 160,974,697/-. Out of which ₹ Page | 13 73,624,248 was for
official fees and reimbursement. Thus out of net professional fees of ₹
87,350,448/-, he submitted that professional fees of ₹ 77,360,542 are not
taxable in India. Thus Rs 99,89, 905/- was professional fees taxable in India
out of which assessee has deducted tax at source on professional fees paid of
₹ 9,140,163/-. Thus ₹ 849,742/- was submitted by the assessee is taxable
professional fees in India on which tax is not deducted at source and same is
to be disallowed u/s 40 (a) (i) of the act. The above amount is agreed by the
assessee for disallowance due to non-deduction of tax at source on payment
made to foreign entities in Taipei.
13\. During the course of assessment proceedings, assessee submitted a note on
the nature of payment made to foreign associates for professional charges and
fees and its taxability under The Income Tax Act and Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement which India has entered into with various countries. The main
contention of the assessee is that services were rendered by the foreign
attorneys/law firms and the payment made do not fall within the scope of Fees
For Technical Services [ FTS] as defined under explanation 2 to Section 9 (1)
(vi) of the act. It was further contested that that the fees paid on
professional services are do not fall into the definition of fees for
technical services. Assessee drew support from the provisions of Section 194J
of the act.
14\. The learned assessing officer noted that the payments made to overseas
firms can be bifurcated into two segments i. the component that reimburses the
forms for any official/statutory payments that needs to be paid to the Page |
14 patent offices or other authority/agencies of the government, ii. The
component for compensating the firm for the services rendered by them.
He noted that the first category of the fees are in the nature of the
reimbursement which is to be passed on by the firm to the government of the
other country, however, professional fees received by the foreign firms needs
to be examined to ascertain whether this constitutes income in the hands of
the foreign firms as fees for technical services and tax is required to be
deducted thereon or not. The learned AO noted that these non-resident entities
are working in a highly specialised field of legal services. These kind of
legal services required not just comprehensive and precise knowledge of the
law but also require experience with the procedural aspects and the rules in
the respective countries. Therefore according to him it goes without saying
that the rendering of the services entails constant interactions between the
assessee and the foreign firm and especially regular feedback and advice to
the assessee. He noted that when the firm is filing the application for
initial registration of the patent with the government agency, it cannot be
simple case of submitting a few documents or mere deposit of some fees as is
being submitted by the assessee. The foreign firm will help to examine each
case in the light of its special knowledge and experience of the relevant laws
of the respective jurisdiction. It cannot be the case of the assessee that the
documents are sent by it on behalf of its Indian Page | 15 client to the
foreign firm and these documents are simply filed with the government of the
other country. After a preliminary look at the case, the non-resident firm
will help to get back to the assessee for advising him about the basic
deficiencies in the documentation, in accordance with special knowledge about
the law of that land. Once these basic deficiencies are plugged, the firm to
again apply itself to the case and this would engender further advising the
assessee as to in what manner the case is to be presented before the
respective government so that there are none of the impediments to the
application filing process. According to AO, all these require providing
advisory / consultation by the foreign firm to the Indian assessee utilising
it specialised knowledge and skill sets that they possess. Similar sequence of
the process would again be carried out while opposing IPR/Patent application
by competitors except that in that scenario the element of the two-way
communication and specialised advice from the foreign firm to the assessee
would be in a higher proportion then when an application is being filed.
Therefore, he noted that it is clear that this definitely involves foreign
firms advising the assessee about the feasibility of success in litigation and
advising it about the manner in which the litigation is to be carried out. The
proportion of advice and consultancy services can only become more acute
during pleading and representing in the court of law. Therefore, he held that
the services provided by the overseas firms/entities partakes the character of
'consultancy' under the Indian income tax act 1961. He further noted that the
payments are made to various residents of different countries with whom India
Page | 16 has signed double Taxation Avoidance Agreements. Thereafter he
examined the relevant DTAA and the provisions of the act and agreed with the
assessee that the payments made by the assessee to foreign attorneys/law firms
in United Kingdom, USA, Canada and Singapore are eliminated from the ambit of
taxability in India due to the presence of "make available" clause {Though we
do not agree with this finding of the ld AO, further that is not the issue
before us now}. Hence the services rendered were considered outside the scope
of fees for technical services and held that assessee was not liable to
withhold any tax on these payments. Further, he also considered the argument
of the assessee that in case of payments made to parties in France, Israel,
Hungary and Belgium, assessee is eligible to take the benefit of "Most-
Favoured-Nation" clause by the protocols annexed to the Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreements. Accordingly, the payment made to the above country
residents was not subject to withholding tax in India. However, even after
excluding the above countries, he found that assessee has not deducted the tax
at source on payment made to foreign firms/ professionals in other countries.
The assessee also submitted before the learned assessing officer that DTAA of
many countries contains an article dealing with services of Independent
Personal Services (IPS) clause and income from business profit respectively in
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and the specified country
and therefore same is chargeable to tax in those countries where the permanent
establishment of the recipients exist. The learned assessing officer did not
agree with the view of the assessee that the nature of the Page | 17 services
provided is in the nature of Independent Personal Services stating that the
argument of the assessee clearly shows that the services rendered by the
foreign professionals in those countries is Fees For Technical Services and it
cannot be considered as income under Independent Personal Services clause or
Business Profits.
15\. Ld AO also rejected the argument of the assessee that in order to attract
taxability in India the services must be also rendered in India as according
to him utilisation of the services in India is enough to attract its
taxability in India.
16\. Therefore, he determined sum of ₹ 36,245,557 over and above a sum of Rs
849,742/- (which is tendered by the assessee) as taxable as Fees for Technical
Services in terms of Section 9 (1)
(vii) of the act. As assessee has failed to deduct tax at source u/s 195 of
the act, he disallowed it u/s 40 (a) (i) of the act a sum of ₹ 37,095,299/-.
17\. On appeal before the learned CIT - A, he confirmed the above disallowance
holding that the learned assessing officer has considered the nature of
services correctly as well as the provisions of Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement to hold that the sum is chargeable to tax as Fees For Technical
Services and tax should have been deducted thereon u/s 195 of the act and
therefore the disallowance of Rs. 36,245,557/- was correctly made.
18\. The first issue that arises before us that the disallowance made by the
learned Assessing Officer under Section 40(a)(i) of the Act is Page | 18
sustainable in law with respect to 22 countries where there is no "Make
Available Clause" and 'Most favoured nation" Clause does not apply. The facts
show that the assessee is an Advocate, engaged in the course of rendering
legal and professional services in the field of Intellectual Properties Laws.
During the course of provision of service to his clients', assessee obtained
services of certain foreign legal professionals, such as individuals, law
firms/companies for filing of various patent applications in various foreign
countries. The assessee made payment to such foreign associates amounting to
Rs.8,73,50,448/-. The Assessing Officer held that in case of 22 countries
where the aggregate payment made by the assessee to such countries amounting
to Rs. 3,62,45,557/- is in the nature of Fees for Technical Services. Such sum
is chargeable to tax in India and, therefore, assessee should have deducted
tax at source under Section 195 of the Income Tax Act, which assessee has
allegedly failed to, therefore, invoking the provisions of Section 40(a)(i) of
the Act the above sum was disallowed. The claim of the assessee is that same
is not chargeable to tax in India and, therefore, provisions of Section 195 of
the Act do not apply. There is no dispute that tax is required to be deducted
at source only on payments which are chargeable to tax in India. Same is the
provision of law and direction of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
G.E. Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. Vs. CIT (2010) 327 ITR 456 (SC). According to
the provisions of Section 4 of the Act the Income Tax shall be chargeable in
respect of total income of the previous year of every person at the rate
prescribed for assessment year.
Page | 19 Section 5 (2) defines the scope of the total income and in respect
of Non residents the total income includes all income from any source received
or deemed to be received in India by or on behalf of such person and accrues
or arises or deemed to accrue or arise to him in India during such year. The
income deemed to accrue or arise in India is defined under Section 9 of the
Income Tax Act. The claim of the learned assessing officer is that such sum
which is paid by the assessee to the foreign law firms, attorneys, companies
etc falls within the definition of Fees For Technical Services and therefore
the same is deemed accrues or arises in India in terms of the provisions of
Section 9 (1) (vii) of the act as it is an income by way of fees for technical
services. Explanation [2] to Section 9 (1) (vii) defines the fees for
technical services as Under:-
77
Explanation [2].--For the purposes of this clause, "fees for 78 technical
services" means any consideration (including any lump sum consi-deration) for
the rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy78 services
(including the provision of services of technical or other personnel) but does
not include consideration for any construction78, assembly, mining or like
project undertaken by the recipient78 or consideration which would be income
of the recipient chargeable under the head "Salaries";] Therefore, rendering
of any managerial, technical or consultancy services subject to certain
exceptions would fall into the compass of fees for technical services.
Page | 20
19\. To understand whether the nature of the services rendered by the
recipient of the professional fees to the assessee whether is in nature of
'fees for technical services", it is necessary to understand that what the
specific services are rendered by them to the assessee. The nature of services
so rendered are:-
(i) For receiving instructions from the Appellant and filing application at
the local Patent Office and reporting the filing to the Appellant.
(ii) Reporting Examination report issued by the local Patent Office to the
Appellant along with due date for filing a response.
(iii) Receiving instructions from the Appellant and preparing and filing
responses to the Examination Report issued by the local Patent Office
(iv) Undertaking trademark searches in the records of the Intellectual
Property offices in respective jurisdictions to ascertain availability of
trademarks in question;
(v) Maintenance of grant/ registration of Intellectual Property or services in
relation thereto, as required under law, like towards annuity payment, renewal
fee, restoration of patent, etc.;
Page | 21
(vi) Maintaining records and forwarding documents of grant or refusal received
from the Intellectual Property offices;
(vii) Facilitating translation, processing and typing of relevant documents.
20\. The claim of the assessee is that these services are not in the nature of
"managerial, technical or consultancy services" but are purely "professional
services". However, and the time of hearing the learned departmental
representative submitted that the above services are "consultancy services" in
nature and therefore they clearly fall within the definition of "fees for
technical services". For this proposition he has relied upon the decision of
the coordinate bench in ACIT, Circle 25, Kolkatta V Shri Subhatosh Majumder [
ITA no 2006/Kol/2007] dated 26/2/2020 wherein identical issue has been
decided. The coordinate bench in paragraph number 17 - 19 has dealt with this
issue as Under:-
> "17. In our considered view, the moot point to be adjudicated in the present
> appeal therefore is whether the legal services rendered by the foreign
> attorneys could be classified as 'consultancy services' so as to bring these
> payments within the ambit of Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act. In this regard,
> we note that the term 'consultancy' service is not defined in the Act. In
> the circumstances one must understand the term as understood in normal
> commercial parlance. As per Oxford Dictionary, the meaning of the Page | 22
> word 'consultancy' is "a professional practice that gives expert advice
> within a particular field". Further, Wikipedia defines 'consultant' as a
> professional who provides expert advice in a particular area such as
> security (electronic or physical), management, education, accountancy, law,
> human resources, marketing (and public relation), finance, engineering,
> science or any of many other specialised fields." Applying these
> definitions, we note that the assessee's services were engaged by his
> clients having regard to his specialized knowledge and experience dealing
> with IP laws as well as procedures involved in obtaining IPR registrations.
> The IP laws of each country contain special provisions and the regulations
> there under prescribe detailed technical and bureaucratic procedures which
> need to be complied with before Patent or IPR registrations are granted. It
> is a well-established fact that the Patents or IP registrations once granted
> by the authority, confer on the holder very valuable intangible rights which
> substantially add to the value of the business carried on by the holder.
Since the laws conferring IP rights on the parties are complex in nature,
rendering of services in the field of IP laws, constitutes specialized branch
in the field of legal service. We therefore find that the assessee as well as
the foreign associates appointed by him enjoyed expertise and specialized
knowledge in the field of IP laws and procedures associated with obtaining
legal protections or registrations under the relevant laws governing IP rights
in Page | 23 the respective countries. It is with the use and aid of the
advice given by the foreign patent attorneys that the assessee and/or his
clients were able to prepare technically intricate documentation, necessary
for filing Patents and other IP rights applications in the foreign countries
in compliance with their respective IP laws. The foreign attorneys not only
advised the assessee in preparing the documentation necessary for submission
of applications but also represented the applicants before the Patent/IP
authorities and provided clarifications and explanations necessary for grant
of registration. We therefore note that on the given facts of the case, but
for the consultancy or advisory services rendered by foreign attorneys, the
assessee or his clients would not have been able to obtain the Patents or IP
registrations in the foreign countries.
18\. We also find it relevant to hold that the Ld. CIT, DR rightly relied on
the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of GVK Industries Ltd Vs
ITO (supra), wherein meaning of the term 'consultancy service' for the
purposes of Section 9(1)(vii) after its amendment in 2010 was explained by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the said judgment the Hon'ble Court observed as
follows:-
"34. In the case at hand, we are concerned with the expression "consultancy
services". In this regard, a reference to the decision by the Authority for
Advance Page | 24 Ruling P. No. 28 of 1999, In re [2000] 242 ITR 208/[1999]
105 Taxman 218 (AAR - New Delhi), would be applicable. The observations
therein read as follows: "By technical services, we mean in this context
services requiring expertise in technology. By consultancy services, we mean
in this context advisory services. The category of technical and consultancy
services are to some extent overlapping because a consultancy service could
also be technical service. However, the category of consultancy services also
includes an advisory service, whether or not expertise in technology is
required to perform it.
" 35. In this context, a reference to the decision in CIT v. Bharti Cellular
Ltd. [2009] 319 ITR 139/[2008] 175 Taxman 573 (Delhi), would be apposite. In
the said case, while dealing with the concept of "consultancy services", the
High Court of Delhi has observed thus: 'Similarly, the word "consultancy" has
been defined in the said Dictionary as "the work or position of a consultant;
a department of consultants." "Consultant" itself has been defined, inter
alia, as "a person who gives professional advice or services in a specialized
field." It is obvious that the word "consultant" is a derivative of the word
"consult" which entails deliberations, consideration, conferring with someone,
conferring about or upon a matter. Consult has also been defined in the said
Page | 25 Dictionary as "ask advice for, seek counsel or a professional
opinion from; refer to (a source of information); seek permission or approval
from for a proposed action". It is obvious that the service of consultancy
also necessarily entails human intervention. The consultant, who provides the
consultancy service, has to be a human being. A machine cannot be regarded as
a consultant.'
36\. In this context, we may fruitfully refer to the dictionary meaning of
'consultation' in Black's Law Dictionary, Eighth Edition. The word
'consultation' has been defined as an act of asking the advice or opinion of
someone (such as a lawyer). It means a meeting in which a party consults or
confers and eventually it results in human interaction that leads to rendering
of advice.
37\. As the factual matrix in the case at hand, would exposit the NRC had
acted as a consultant. It had the skill, acumen and knowledge in the
specialized field i.e. preparation of a scheme for required finances and to
tie- up required loans. The nature of activities undertaken by the NRC has
earlier been referred to by us. The nature of service referred by the NRC, can
be said with certainty would come within the ambit and sweep of the term
'consultancy service' and, therefore, it has been rightly held that the tax at
source should have been deducted as the amount paid as fee could be taxable
under the head 'fee for technical service'. Once the tax is Page | 26
payable/paid the grant of 'No Objection Certificate' was not legally
permissible. Ergo, the judgment and order passed by the High Court are
absolutely impregnable."
19\. Applying the ratio laid down in the judgment (supra), we are of the view
that the services which the foreign attorneys rendered to the assessee
squarely came within the ambit of Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act. In his
rebuttal, the ld. AR sought to distinguish the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court stating that the facts of the assessee's case were distinguishable
because unlike in the case before the Hon'ble Apex Court, the non-resident
attorneys had merely performed executionary functions which were rendered
abroad and also utilized outside India. We are however unable to persuade
ourselves to agree with the contention put forth by the Ld. AR of the
assessee. In the first instance, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of GVK
Industries Ltd (supra) defined the expression 'consultancy services' in the
context of Section 9(1)(vii) and the services rendered by foreign attorneys
squarely come within the ambit of such definition. This point has not been
negated by the Ld. AR in his submissions. Instead the case made out by the Ld.
AR is that the services were rendered abroad and utilized abroad and therefore
fell within the exception carved out within Section 9(1)(vii)(b) of the Act.
We therefore hold that the ratio laid down in the said judgment is very much
relevant in deciding the present appeal."
Page | 27
21\. The argument of the learned authorised representative is that the
coordinate bench did not appreciate that the payment towards the same would
constitute "fees for professional services" and not "fees for technical
services" and further as this was not argued before that bench, the coordinate
bench had to consider the same. It is submitted that the services rendered by
the service providers is not fees for technical services but are purely
professional services of a lawyer. It was further stated that as in the case
before the coordinate bench in that case, the foreign attorneys did not render
any clerical and execution services. According to him, services rendered in
the present case by the foreign attorneys are highly specialised legal
services which partakes the character of "fees for professional services". He
further stated that the coordinate bench in case of NQA quality systems
registrar's Ltd versus DCIT (2005) 92 TTJ 946 (Delhi) has clearly make a
difference between "fees for technical services" and "fees for professional
services". He further put to our attention that the provisions of Section 194J
clearly carved out the difference between "fees for technical services" and
"fees for professional services". He therefore submitted that, if the
distinction between the two kinds of the payments i.e. fees for technical
services and fees for professional services is a blurred and not judicially
recognised, it would lead to an anomalous situation as payment for obtaining
legal opinion from an advocate/law firm would constitute fees for technical
services being advisory in nature, whereas payment for litigation services by
the same advocate/law firm would constitute fees for professional services,
requiring Page | 28 deduction of tax at source u/s 194J of the act at
different rates, even though both of the above services would undoubtedly be
rendered by the advocate/law firm "in the course of carrying on legal
profession".
22\. We have carefully given our considered thoughts to the above argument.
Firstly the reliance upon the decision cited by the learned departmental
representative clearly clinches issue in favour of the revenue that services
rendered by the foreign attorneys clearly falls into the definition of fees
for technical services as defined in explanation 2 to Section 9 (1) (vii) of
the act. Merely because there are no clerical and executionatiory tasks not
mentioned, it does not change the nature of services rendered in its
substance. Therefore, the above payment clearly falls as income chargeable to
tax u/s 5 read with Section 9 (1)
(vii) of the act as 'Fees for technical services so for the Income tax Act
1961 is concerned. Coming back to the decision cited before us by the learned
authorised representative in NQA quality systems registrar's Ltd versus DCIT
(2005) 92 TTJ 946 (Delhi), we find that the learned authorised representative
relied upon the para number 17 of that decision where the coordinate bench in
that case examines the applicability of article 15 of the Indo UK DTAA a
relating to independent personal services where the professional services are
specifically defined. However here we are supposed to examine The Income Tax
Act, 1961 to examine the chargeability of the above sum under the Income Tax
Act. Therefore, the reliance placed by the assessee on the decision of 92 TTJ
946 is misplaced. We hastened to add that Page | 29 when we reach at
applicability of respective Double taxation Agreement, we are conscious about
distinction between FTS and Independent personal Service when applying
articles of respective DTAA.
23\. LD AR also invited our attention to section 194J of the Act which deals
with tax deduction at source in respect of "Fees for professional or technical
services". It is submitted that the distinction between "Fee for professional
services" and "FTS" is statutorily recognised, in as much as, under the
aforesaid section, Legislature in its wisdom has created two separate classes
of income, viz., "Fees for professional services" and "Fees for technical
services". The said expressions have also been separately defined in
Explanation to section 194J of the act, Referring to that provisions it is
submitted that it is clear as crystal that "professional services", which
includes legal services, is a separate category of services, recognized as
distinct from FTS, which is primarily "managerial, technical or consultancy"
services as referred to in section 9(1)(vii) of the Act, by the Legislature
itself. If "FTS" as defined in Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vii) were to
include "professional services" as referred to in section 44AA, it would not
have been necessary to refer to the latter specifically in Explanation (a) to
section 194J of the Act, and Explanation (b) to that section would have been
sufficient. It was also submitted that It may not be out of place to mention
that section 28 of the Act refers to the income head "profits and gains of
business or profession", which, too, demonstrates that profession is distinct
from business. Even under the Double Page | 30 Taxation Avoidance Agreements
which India has entered into with various countries, there are separate
Articles/ provisions relating to taxation of "Fee for Technical Services" and
"Independent Personal Services" ("IPS"), like that of lawyer, doctors and
other professionals and the special provisions relating to taxation of
professionals, it is submitted, override the general provision relating to
taxation of FTS. He submitted that the reason for the aforesaid is also not
far to seek. A professional service provider is registered with the respective
regulatory body or institutions and is permitted to render professional
services in the jurisdiction of his respective country. A person registered as
a professional for providing professional services, therefore, can earn income
from such professional services only in his country, where he is registered to
exercise his profession. In other words, a professional service provider by
definition cannot earn income in any country other than where he is resident
and is registered to practice. For the aforesaid reason, universally, under
the domestic tax laws, e.g., under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and also under the
respective DTAAs, professional services are subjected to taxation in the
country of residence of such professional service provider. For that reason,
it would be appreciated that under the Income-tax Act, 1961, while, payment
made for professional services to residents is subjected to deduction of tax
at source under section 194J of the Act, in case of non-residents, such
payments are not regarded as income accruing or arising in India under section
9(1)(vii) of the Act and therefore, not subjected to tax withholding under
section 195 of the Act. The Page | 31 aforesaid position is also in line with
the position under the DTAAs.
24\. We have given on careful thought to the above argument.
However for the purpose of holding that professional services should be
considered differently then fees for technical services for the purpose of
taxation u/s 9 (1) (vii) of the act, we are not impressed with the same. Our
reasons are that provisions of Section 194J is applicable only to the payment
made to resident therefore it cannot be extended to the payment made to non-
resident. Therefore, in our view the definition and distinctions made between
the fees for technical services and professional services u/s 194J does not
have any implication to decide whether same is subject to tax as per the
income tax act 1961 when the payment is made to a non-resident. If that be the
case then Legislature would also have given a thought to include professional
fees separately u/s 9 (1) (vii) of the act. That is not the intention of the
law so far as the payments are made to non residents. In fact the provisions
of Section 9 include certain income which shall be deemed to accrue or arise
in India though in fact it neither accrues nor arises in India. It is a
deeming fiction specifically made in the income tax act for the purpose of non
residents. It in fact enlarges the scope of taxability of certain income of
non-resident. Even otherwise the language of the provisions of Section 9 (1)
is clear and therefore it is also not necessary to look into any other
provisions of the income tax act which does not apply to non residents.
Therefore drawing the distinction made u/s 194J between professional fees and
fees for Page | 32 technical services does not help the case of the assessee
and is unwarranted. Even otherwise, whole scheme of the Income tax Act deals
with taxation of Non resident and taxation of resident differently.
25\. Further the distinctions made between the characterisation of two
different income in the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement also cannot be
incorporated or interpreted in the income tax act for the reason that Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement is basically an agreement negotiated between the
two countries country of source of income and country of residence of
recipient, for sharing of the revenue of taxes out of one stream of income.
That would be certainly applicable when the case of the assessee would be
considered regarding applicability of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement
and various articles therein.
26\. Next argument of the ld AR is that even otherwise since the payments are
made by the Appellant, who is a resident, to non- residents for the purposes
of earning income from a Source Outside India, the same are excluded from the
purview of FTS in terms of section 9(1)(vii)(b). The source of income, in the
present case, is the filing of patent applications by the foreign law firms/
legal practitioners in the respective jurisdictions outside India. We have
carefully considered this argument and find that source of the income is not
the filing of the patent applications by the foreign law firms of the clients
in India but the assessee himself who pays to the foreign law
firms/professionals. This issue has Page | 33 also been discussed by the
coordinate bench in case of Subhatosh Majumder ( supra) as under:-
> "24. The Ld. AR further sought to avail the benefit of the exception carved
> out in Section 9(1)(vii)(b) of the Act on the premise that by obtaining
> patents/IPR registrations abroad, the clients of the assessee created
> sources of income outside India and since the services were rendered by the
> foreign attorneys in connection with such foreign source, the income did not
> deem to accrue or arise in India warranting deduction of tax u/s 195 of the
> Act. As we observed in the preceding paragraph 20, the services of the
> foreign attorneys were not engaged by the assessee's clients in whose favour
> the patents or IPRs were registered in foreign countries. Instead the
> services were engaged by the assessee while in discharge of his professional
> obligations in India. As such, the source of income in connection with which
> the services of foreign attorneys were used, was located in India. We also
> note that the mere fact that the Patents or IPs registrations in foreign
> countries granted protection to the Indian clients within the foreign
> territories, did not create any 'source of income' for such clients outside
> India. The protection under the foreign IP laws did not by itself ITA No.
> 2006/Kol/2017 A.Y 2011-12 Sri Subhatosh Majumder constitute "source" of any
> income in a foreign country. Nothing has been brought on record by the
> assessee to show that the clients on whose behalf this Patents/IP were
> registered had established PEs/branch etc. Page | 34 in such foreign
> countries so as to hold that the payments were made in relation to source of
> income located outside India. Viewed from any angle therefore we are unable
> to agree with the Ld. AR's submissions that the payment made to foreign
> attorneys fell within the exception carved out Section 9(1)(vii)(b) of the
> Act."
> Hence, we reject this argument of the assessee.
27\. Alternatively, the learned authorised representative argued that it is a
settled principle of law that where the Government of India has entered into
DTAAs with foreign countries for granting relief in respect of avoidance of
double taxation, the provisions of the DTAA override the provisions of the Act
to the extent beneficial to the assessee. It is submitted that even under the
DTAAs, the services in the nature of legal services are covered within the
scope of "professional services" and not FTS, taxation whereof is dealt with
separately under a different Article specifically governing taxability of such
professional services, viz., Independent Personal Services. He referred to
article 14 of the India Russia Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement and also
the decision of the coordinate bench dated 10 October 2019 in the case of DLF
Ltd versus ITO (ITA number 3253/del/2012) wherein it was held that the payment
made to a non-resident law firm for professional services rendered as
international counsel shall partake the nature of independent personal
services and not fees for technical services. He also referred to the decision
of the coordinate bench in Maharashtra state electricity board versus Deputy
Commissioner Of Income Tax (90 ITD 793 (MUM)). The Page | 35 learned
authorised representative also submitted that provisions relating to the
taxability of independent personal services are not identical in all Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreements as each Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement
specifies the category of service provider who can avail the benefit provided
therein. He submitted a table to show that agreement with some of the
countries the relevant article dealing with the independent personal services
covered payment being made to a resident on such payment for professional
services are taxable only in the country where the service provider is
resident.
      S.                                        Status of
             Country       Foreign entity                       Amount
      No.                                     foreign entity
                        Martinez &            Partnership
      1.      Brazil                                            12,66,391
                        Associados            firm
                        Kangxin Partners,
      2.                                      Company            2,15,389
                        P.C.
                                              Partnership
      3.      China     Lehman, Lee & Xu                          77,976
                                              firm
                                              Partnership
      4.                Unitalen                                18,41,572
                                              firm
              Czech
      5.                Patentservis          Company             40,983
             Republic
                                              Partnership
      6.                Seiwa Patent & Law                      10,24,465
                                              firm
                        Shiga International   Partnership
      7.      Japan                                             20,56,746
                        Patent Office         firm
                        Shimizu Patent        Proprietorship/
      8.                                                         9,84,308
                        Office                Individual
                                            Partnership
      9.    Philippines Angara Abello                            4,64,877
                        Concepcion Regala & firm
                                                                 Page | 36
                                Cruz
                               Tilleke & Gibbins
            10.    Thailand                              Company          2,82,736
                               International Limited
                               United Trademark &        Partnership
            11.      UAE                                                 36,32,983
                               Patent Services           firm
                               Tran H. N. &
            12.     Vietnam                              Company          3,74,665
                               Associates
                                      Total
                                                                        1,22,63,090
28\. It is further submitted that in case of payment made to residents of
Australia, the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and Australia
with respect to the independent personal services article covers payment made
to individuals or firm of individuals. He submitted that the payment made to
such parties amounting to ₹ 1,267,060/- is as Under:-
           S.                                            Status of
                  Country       Foreign entity                          Amount
           No.                                         foreign entity
                              Davies Collison      Partnership firm
           1.                                                              5,45,595
                              Cave
           2.                 Griffith Hack        Partnership firm        6,79,205
                  Australia
                              Lesicar Murray
           3.                                      Partnership firm          12,646
                              Trento
           4.                 Lesicar Perrin       Partnership firm          29,615
                                    Total                                 12,67,060
29\. He further submitted that assessee has made payment to an individual
resident of Republic of Korea which is also covered by independent personal
services article of the DTAA between India Page | 37 and Korea wherein it is
provided that if the payment is made to individual then it shall be taxable in
that country only. Such payment was of ₹ 20,518/- as under :-
> Treaties wherein Article relating to IPS covers payments made to
> 'individuals' only Recipient of S. Legal status of Amount IPS Country
> professional No. recipient (Rs.) Article fee Republic Y.S. Chang &
> Proprietorship/ Article 1 20,518 of Korea Associates Individual 14 Total
> 20,518
30\. It is also submitted that in following cases the payments have been made
to non-individuals of different countries amounting to ₹ 2,26,94,889/-, though
it is not covered by the provisions of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement
relating to the Independent Personal Services, it does not automatically
become and falls into the article of Fees For Technical Services. He submitted
that income derived from professional services in such cases shall be covered
under the article governing "business profit" as that provider of services
providing legal services to their clients in the course of their business. In
absence of such non-resident legal practitioners having the permanent
establishment in India in terms of article 5 of the respective Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreement. It is submitted that no part of the business profits
arising to a non-resident entity from the appellant would be taxable in India.
He submitted that those parties do not have any permanent establishment or any
fixed Page | 38 place of business in India and therefore same would also not
be taxable in India in terms of article 7 read with article 5 of the
respective Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement. He submitted the list of such
payments as under :-
    S.                   Recipient of    Legal status   Amount       IPS
           Country
    No.                professional fee of recipient     (Rs.)      Article
                       HamsoPatentbyr Partnership                   Article
      1     Norway                                       2,11,339
                       a                firm                          14
                                        Partnership                 Article
      2    Denmark     Zacco Denmark                    15,25,359
                                        firm                          15
                       Murugesu&Neel Partnership
                                                          37,073
                       akandan          firm                        Article
      3    Sri Lanka
                       Neelakandan&N Partnership                      14
                                                          83,363
                       eelakandan       firm
                       Advanz Fidelis
                                        Company          1,00,296
                       SDN.BHD.
                       Marks & Clerk    Partnership                 Article
      4    Malaysia                                      2,51,428
                       LLP.             firm                          15
                       RamRais&         Partnership
                                                          13,577
                       Partners         firm
                       Gorodisskey&     Partnership                 Article
      5     Russia                                      30,99,452
                       Partners         firm                          14
                       Dennemyer&                                   Article
      6   Luxembourg                    Company         61,85,901
                       Co.                                            14
                       Lesicarf
                       Maynard
                                        Company           62,158    Article
      7    Australia   Andrews Pty
                       Ltd                                            14
                       Pizzeys          Company           23,003
                                        Partnership
                       First law PC                      7,10,446
                                        firm
                       Hanyang
                       International    Partnership
                                                         5,19,585
          Republic of Patent & Law      firm                        Article
      8
             Korea     Firm                                           14
                       Muhann Patent    Partnership
                                                         5,95,968
                       & Law Firm       firm
                       Y.P. Lee, Mock Partnership
                                                         6,81,006
                       & Partners       firm
                       D.M. Kisch.                                  Article
      9   South Africa                  Company         46,99,667
                       INC.                                           14
                                                              Page | 39
                              Edward Nathan
                             Sonnenbergs       Company              8,762
                             Inc.
                                               Partnership
                             Von Seidels                         1,09,423
                                               firm
                   New                         Partnership                   Article
           10                Baldwins                           13,68,129
                  Zealand                      firm                            14
                                                                             Article
           11     Mexico     Baudelio& Cia     Company          21,00,913
                                                                               14
                                               Partnership
                             Amr Partnership                       23,426
                                               firm
                                                                             Article
           12    Indonesia   George
                                               Partnership                     14
                             Widjojo&                            1,33,421
                                               firm
                             Partners
                             Clarke, Modet&                                  Article
           13    Colombia                      Company             99,682
                             Co                                                14
                             Ristic &
                                               Government                    Article
           14     Serbia     Malesevic of                          51,511
                                               organization                    14
                             Patent Bureau
                             Total                             2,26,94,888
31\. On careful consideration of the arguments of the ld AR, we are of the
view that the services are definitely qualifying as "independent Personal
services". Therefore wherever in DTAA there is clause of Independent personal
services and, if the recipient qualifies i.e. he does not have fixed base
regularly available to him in source country and he does not reside for N
number of days in source country, for benefit of that particular clause of
DTAA, then, such income shall be taxed in the country of residence of the
provider of the services and same shall not be chargeable to tax in India.
Then on such payments there is no requirement of withholding tax u/s 195 of
the act.
32\. Assessee has made payment of Rs 1,22,63,091 to the recipient of fees in
Brazil, China, Chez Republic, Japan, Philippines, Page | 40 Thailand (article
14 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement of India with those countries) and
Vietnam (article 15 of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement). According to the
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement of India with these countries Independent
Personal Services, if paid to resident of those countries, shall be taxable in
those countries subject to certain exceptions. Who are resident of those
countries are already specified as per article 4 of those agreements. He shall
be "liable to be taxed" in those country of residence. Therefore, assessee is
directed to produce necessary evidences before the learned assessing officer
that those residents are 'liable to tax' in those respective countries of the
residence. Therefore, the learned assessing officer is directed to examine the
evidence produced by the assessee that recipient of the above payment are
'resident' of those countries and 'liable to be taxed' in those countries. If,
the learned assessing officer finds that recipient of the income are resident
according to article 4 (1) of the respective Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement and they do not fall into the exceptions of taxability of
Independent Personal Services i.e. they do not have any fixed place of
business in India, or of stay of number of days in India, then, it is to be
held that no tax is required to be deducted at source on such payment made by
the assessee to those parties. Accordingly after examination, the learned
assessing officer may delete the disallowance if found in accordance with the
law and the terms of the agreement.
33\. With respect to payment of ₹ 1,267,061 made to partnership firm of
resident of Australia where independent personal services Page | 41 according
to article 14 of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, an individual or a
firm of individuals (other than a company) who is a resident of Australia
subject to certain exceptions covered therein shall be taxable only in
Australia. The only condition is to be seen that according to article 4 (1)
such individuals or form of individuals are resident of that country, liable
to tax therein. The assessee is directed to produce before the assessing
officer necessary details with respect to their residential status. If same is
found that those parties are resident of Australia according to article 4 (1)
of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement and the necessary conditions of
article 14 are satisfied, then assessee is not required to deduct tax at
source on such payment. Accordingly, after examination, the learned assessing
officer may delete the disallowance, if found in accordance with the law in
terms of the agreement.
34\. Similarly assessee has made payment of ₹ 20,518/- to an individual of
Republic of Korea. According to article 14 of The Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement if the payment is made to an individual who is a resident of Korea
and does not have a fixed base available to him regularly or number of days
stayed in India is less than specified, then same shall be taxable only in
Republic of Korea. The assessee is directed to produce evidence that the
recipient of the income is an individual and also resident according to
article 4 (1) of the act and does not satisfy the necessary conditions of
availability of regular fixed base as well as stay of number of days, the
learned assessing officer may verify the same and if found correct then
assessee is not required Page | 42 to deduct any tax at source u/s 195 of the
income tax act. Accordingly the learned assessing officer may delete the
disallowance.
35\. Further assessee has made payment of ₹ 22,694,888/- to the various
parties of Norway, Denmark, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Russia, Luxembourg,
Australia, Republic of Korea, South Africa, New Zealand, Mexico, Indonesia,
Colombia and Serbia. The recipients of the above payment do not qualify for
the benefit of taxation in the country of their resident of the above sum as
per article 14 or 15 as the case may be of Independent personal services
because of either that are not individuals. However the services rendered by
them specifically falls under the services characterised under the clause of
independent personal services of Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with
those countries. We do not agree with the argument of the learned authorised
representative that they shall be taxable as business income under article 7
of the respective Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement. The reason being that
there are two separate clauses of taxability of business income of non-
specified activities which is covered as per article 7 of those Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement and if they're qualified as Independent Personal
Services then Under article 14 or article 15 of the respective Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreement. These are two different articles negotiated between the
countries for taxability of two different types of business activities.
Therefore there is a strict compartment between the incomes received by the
recipient residents of those countries in these two different articles. It
Page | 43 cannot be said that if an assessee fails to claim non taxability in
the source country as per article 14 or 15 of the Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement automatically he can claim the benefit under article 7 of the Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement. Therefore, according to us, the income of the
assessee is correctly characterised as professional services under article of
Independent personal services under DTAA. But because of some reason it fails
to qualify for exemption from taxation in source country. Therefore same
becomes income taxable in the sources country, Source country gets right to
tax such income of non residents. Therefore, we hold that assessee should have
deducted tax at source on the above payment of ₹ 22,694,888 u/s 195 of The
Income Tax Act as the recipient of the income are not entitled to avail
benefit of article 14 or article 15 of the respective Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreements. To this extent, the disallowance made by the learned
assessing officer cannot be found fault with. Accordingly disallowance u/s
40(a) (i) of the act to that extent of Rs 2,26,94,888/- is upheld for non-
deduction of tax at source u/s 195 of the act.
36\. Thus ground number two of the appeal is partly allowed with above
directions.
37\. The next ground is with respect to of ₹ 1,123,312 out of travelling
expenditure. The assessee has incurred a sum of Rs 1,12,33,121/- on account of
foreign travelling expenses. The assessee was asked to produce evidences and
supporting documents to justify that the all the foreign travels were for the
business purposes. The ld AR of the assessee did not produce complete vouchers
for the Page | 44 same therefore , in absence of such bills and vouchers, the
learned assessing officer, to prevent the leakage of the revenue , on account
of personal expenses , disallowed 10% out of total expenses of Rs 112,33,121
worked out disallowance of ₹ 1,123,312.
38\. On appeal before the learned CIT - A the above disallowance was confirmed
giving the reason that appellant could not provide any documentary evidences
in support of its contentions and further during the appellate proceedings
also no documentary evidences have been submitted.
39\. The learned authorised representative submitted that assessee has
incurred this expenditure for the purposes of the business and therefore same
are allowable. He also submitted that complete details of expenses are
provided.
40\. The learned departmental representative supported the orders of the lower
authorities.
41\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the learned lower authorities. In the present case undoubtedly the assessee
has incurred foreign travel expenditure and the learned assessing officer has
disallowed an ad hoc amount applying the ratio of 10% to prevent any leakage
as assessee could not produce the relevant evidences holding that those
expenditures have not been incurred for the purposes of the business. We do
not subscribe to the view of the learned lower authorities. The learned
assessing officer should have disallowed only the sum for which no evidences
have been produced by the assessee. Applying an ad hoc percentage of 10%
without any Page | 45 finding about the amount of expenditure for which no
evidences were furnished by the assessee is not in accordance with the law.
Accordingly we direct the learned assessing officer to delete the above
disallowance. Accordingly ground number 3 of the appeal is allowed.
42\. Accordingly appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on :    06/11/2020
            Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    (SUCHITRA KAMBLE)                                (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
     JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    DATED : 06/11/2020.
    *MEHTA*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
of ITAT Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk 06.11.2020 Date on
which the file goes to the Head Clerk The date on which the file goes to the
Assistant Registrar for signature on the order Date of dispatch of the Order
Page | 47
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
               ( Appellant)
                 Assessee by                   Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate;
                                                  Shri Neeraj Jain, Advocate;
                                             Sh. Aditya Vohra, Adv. & Sh. Arpit
                                                         Goyal , C.A.
                For Revenue                      Shri Satpal Gulati CIT DR
                                                   Shri G Jhonson Sr DR
    Date of hearing                                09/1/2020 & 7/8/2020
    Date of Order                                          06.11.2020
                                    ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A.M.:
01\. This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-44, New Delhi,[ The ld CIT (A)] dated
23.08.2019 for assessment year 2015-16 wherein he upheld the disallowance of
Rs 3,70,95,299/- made by the ld AO u/s 40 a(i) of The Income tax Act [ the
Act] for non deduction of tax at source on payments made by assessee of
professional charges to counsel/ lawyers outside India. Also disallowance of
foreign travel expenses was confirmed.
02\. The facts of the case shows that assessee is an Advocate by profession,
filed his return of income on 30.09.2015 declaring an income of Rs.
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
               ( Appellant)
                 Assessee by                   Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate;
                                                  Shri Neeraj Jain, Advocate;
                                             Sh. Aditya Vohra, Adv. & Sh. Arpit
                                                         Goyal , C.A.
                For Revenue                      Shri Satpal Gulati CIT DR
                                                   Shri G Jhonson Sr DR
    Date of hearing                                09/1/2020 & 7/8/2020
    Date of Order                                          06.11.2020
                                    ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A.M.:
01\. This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-44, New Delhi,[ The ld CIT (A)] dated
23.08.2019 for assessment year 2015-16 wherein he upheld the disallowance of
Rs 3,70,95,299/- made by the ld AO u/s 40 a(i) of The Income tax Act [ the
Act] for non deduction of tax at source on payments made by assessee of
professional charges to counsel/ lawyers outside India. Also disallowance of
foreign travel expenses was confirmed.
02\. The facts of the case shows that assessee is an Advocate by profession,
filed his return of income on 30.09.2015 declaring an income of Rs.
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
               ( Appellant)
                 Assessee by                   Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate;
                                                  Shri Neeraj Jain, Advocate;
                                             Sh. Aditya Vohra, Adv. & Sh. Arpit
                                                         Goyal , C.A.
                For Revenue                      Shri Satpal Gulati CIT DR
                                                   Shri G Jhonson Sr DR
    Date of hearing                                09/1/2020 & 7/8/2020
    Date of Order                                          06.11.2020
                                    ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A.M.:
01\. This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-44, New Delhi,[ The ld CIT (A)] dated
23.08.2019 for assessment year 2015-16 wherein he upheld the disallowance of
Rs 3,70,95,299/- made by the ld AO u/s 40 a(i) of The Income tax Act [ the
Act] for non deduction of tax at source on payments made by assessee of
professional charges to counsel/ lawyers outside India. Also disallowance of
foreign travel expenses was confirmed.
02\. The facts of the case shows that assessee is an Advocate by profession,
filed his return of income on 30.09.2015 declaring an income of Rs.
3,51,18,400/- The learned Assessing Officer passed an order under Section
143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act) on 29.12.2017 at Rs.
7,33,37,010/-.
03\. The learned Assessing Officer made disallowance under Section 40a(i) of
the Act of Rs. 3,70,95,299/- for non-deduction of tax at source of payment
made of professional charges and official fees to the foreign associates
holding that under the provisions of the Income Tax Act Income Tax should have
been deducted on these payments u/s 195 of The Act.
Page | 2
04\. The second addition of Rs. 11,23,312/- was made on account of foreign
travel expenditure being 10 per cent of the total expenditure amounting to Rs.
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
               ( Appellant)
                 Assessee by                   Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr. Advocate;
                                                  Shri Neeraj Jain, Advocate;
                                             Sh. Aditya Vohra, Adv. & Sh. Arpit
                                                         Goyal , C.A.
                For Revenue                      Shri Satpal Gulati CIT DR
                                                   Shri G Jhonson Sr DR
    Date of hearing                                09/1/2020 & 7/8/2020
    Date of Order                                          06.11.2020
                                    ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A.M.:
01\. This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order of the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-44, New Delhi,[ The ld CIT (A)] dated
23.08.2019 for assessment year 2015-16 wherein he upheld the disallowance of
Rs 3,70,95,299/- made by the ld AO u/s 40 a(i) of The Income tax Act [ the
Act] for non deduction of tax at source on payments made by assessee of
professional charges to counsel/ lawyers outside India. Also disallowance of
foreign travel expenses was confirmed.
02\. The facts of the case shows that assessee is an Advocate by profession,
filed his return of income on 30.09.2015 declaring an income of Rs.
3,51,18,400/- The learned Assessing Officer passed an order under Section
143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act) on 29.12.2017 at Rs.
7,33,37,010/-.
03\. The learned Assessing Officer made disallowance under Section 40a(i) of
the Act of Rs. 3,70,95,299/- for non-deduction of tax at source of payment
made of professional charges and official fees to the foreign associates
holding that under the provisions of the Income Tax Act Income Tax should have
been deducted on these payments u/s 195 of The Act.
Page | 2
04\. The second addition of Rs. 11,23,312/- was made on account of foreign
travel expenditure being 10 per cent of the total expenditure amounting to Rs.
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.     Appellant
    2.     Respondent
    3.     CIT
    4.     CIT(Appeals)
    5.     DR: ITAT
                                                            ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                             ITAT, NEW DELHI
                                                                            Page | 46
     Date of dictation                                              06.11.2020
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating 06.11.2020 Member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Other 06.11.2020 Member
06.11.2020 Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS 06.11.2020
Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
pronouncement Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr.PS/PS
06.11.2020 Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website 06.11.2020
