Madras High Court
Mrs.Gowri (Died) vs T.Lakshmiammal on 28 March, 2014
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    DATED:    28  .03.2014
    CORAM :
    THE HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE R.S.RAMANATHAN 
    A.S.Nos.312 of 1994 and 985 of 1997
    and
    CMP Nos.1793 and 1794 of 2008
    1.Mrs.Gowri (Died)
    2.M.K.Krishnan                                                        : Appellants/Plaintiffs
    3.Rajesh
    4.Suresh                                          
      [Appellants 3 and 4 brought on
      record as Lrs of the deceased
      1st appellant as per order of 
      this court, dated 08.01.2003 
      made in CMP No.18925/2002]  
    						Vs.
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
    2.T.Ramanathan
    3.T.Ramakrishnan
    4.T.Ramanarayanan(died)
    5.T.Ramamoorthy
    6.Malarkodi
    7.Sriram
    8.Minor Saradha Devi
      [R8 represented by mother &
      Guardian Malarkodi]
      [RR6 to RR8 brought on record as 
      LRs of the deceased R4 vide order
      of this court, dated 14.10.2008
      made in  CMP No.1553 to 1555//08
      R6 appointed as Guardian]                        : Respondents/Defendants 
Appeal Suits filed under Section 96 of CPC against the Judgment and decree,
dated 27.01.1994 passed in Original Suit Nos.1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 by
the Sub Court, Coimbatore.
    		For Appellants            : Mr.T.M.Hariharan
    		For Respondents  	   : Mr.M.S.Krishnan
                                                          Senior Counsel
                                                          for M/s.Sarvabhvaman Associates
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    	The plaintiffs in both the suits in O.S.No. 1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 on the file of the I Assistant Subordinate Judge, Coimbatore, are the appellants.
    	2.O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was filed for specific performance of Agreement of Sale, dated 27.03.1979 and for injunction and O.S.No.248 of 1992 was filed for injunction.  Both the suits were dismissed and aggrieved by the same, the plaintiffs filed the above appeal suits. 
    	3.The case of the plaintiffs in both the suits are as follows:-
The 1st plaintiff is the wife and the 2nd plaintiff is the husband. The suit
property originally belonged to G.Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the 1st defendant
is his widow and the defendants 2 to 5 are his sons. The said G.Thirumalaisamy
Nadar let out the suit property and a larger extent to Beema Rao and
R.Sadayappa Thevar and latter, R.Sadayappa Thevar became the sole lessee of
the entire property and the 2nd plaintiff and 11 others were allowed to occupy
various portions as a sub-tenant under R.Sadayappa Thevar and in the suit
property, the 2nd plaintiff was running an Automobile workshop under the name
and style of 'NEW SUPER AUTO CARAGE' by constructing a superstructure thereon.
Latter misunderstanding arose between Thirumalaisamy Nadar and R.Sadayappa
Thevar and Thirumalaisamy Nadar filed O.S. No.1644 of 1969 for recovery of
possession of the suit property and a larger extent from R.Sadayappa Thevar
and in that suit, R.Sadayappa Thevar filed petition under section 9 of the
Tamil Nadu City Tenants Protection Act and offered to purchase the suit
property, which was let out to him. During the pendency of the suit,
G.Thirumalaisamy Nadar offered to sell the suit property in the possession of
the 2nd plaintiff to the 1st plaintiff for a consideration of Rs.36,300/- and
both of them, entered into an Agreement of Sale on 27.03.1979, by which the
suit property was agreed to be sold to the first plaintiff for a consideration
of Rs.36,300/- and an advance of Rs.15,000/- was paid and the same was also
incorporated in the Agreement of Sale. As per the said Agreement, the first
plaintiff has to pay additional sum of Rs.5,000/- within a period of one month
and that was also paid and even in the Agreement of Sale, it has been
specifically stated that the sale shall be completed within two months from
the date on which Thirumalaisamy Nadar got recovery of possession in the suit
filed by him in O.S.No.1644 of 1969 against Sadayappa Thevar. Thereafter,
Thirumalaisamy Nadar died and the defendants 2 to 5 attempted to interfere
with the possession and enjoyment of the plaintiffs, as the first plaintiff
was put in possession of the suit property as part performance of Agreement of
Sale and the defendants were also not evincing any interest in selling the
suit property and attempted to interfere with the possession and enjoyment of
plaintiffs. Hence, the plaintiffs filed O.S.No.248 of 1992 on the file of the
District Munsif Court, Coimbatore for bare injunction and in that suit, the
defendants questioned the Agreement of Sale, dated 27.03.1979 and therefore,
the plaintiffs filed O.S.No.2047 of 1987 for specific performance and for
injunction.
4.It is stated that the plaintiffs are ready and willing to perform his part
of contract and even though, under the Agreement of Sale, the sale has to be
completed within two months from the date of getting recovery of possession
and as the defendants questioned the Agreement of Sale and denied the
execution of Agreement of Sale, the suit was filed for specific performance.
5.The second defendant filed a written statement and the same was adopted by
the respondents 1 and 3 to 5 and it is averred as follows :-
Thirumalaisamy Nadar died on 22.01.1985 and the suit property was not his
separate property, the defendants 2 to 5 are having equal share in the suit
property along with their father. They also stated that under the Lease
Agreement, dated 01.07.1957, the suit property and the larger extent, totally
measuring east-west 60 feet and north-south 160 feet vacant site was let out
to Beema Rao and Sadayappan Thevar and latter, Beema Rao surrendered the let
out portion to Sadayappa Thevar and Sadayappa Thevar was in possession and
enjoyment of the extent and put up a superstructure in the property, that was
let out to him and Sadayappa Thevar, sub-let a portion of the suit property to
the 2nd plaintiff and O.S.No.1644 of 1969 was filed by the said Thirumalaisamy
Nadar on the file of the Ist Additional District Munsif, Coimbatore against
Sadayappa Thevar for recovery of possession and in that suit, Sadayappa Thevar
filed I.A.No.2008 of 1987 under section 9 of the Tamil Nadu City Tenants
Protection Act, in respect of the demised property.
6.It is further stated that the property involved in O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and
the property described in the plaint schedule are entirely different and the
allegations made in the plaint are denied. They also denied the allegations
that Thirumalaisamy Nadar entered into an Agreement of Sale with the
plaintiffs for the sale of the site, measuring 42 feet north-south and 63 feet
east-west situated on the north-western side of the properties involved in
O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and the said Agreement was attested by the 3rd defendant
and Thirumalaisamy Nadar received Rs.20,000/- towards total sale consideration
and pursuant to the Agreement, the plaintiffs put up a workshop shed in the
said site. The alleged Agreement pleaded by the plaintiffs is a rank forgery
and Thirumalaisamy Nadar never executed any such document and the market value
of the property is not less than Rs.1,00,000/- per cent and therefore,
Thirumalaisamy Nadar could not have entered into an Agreement of Sale, before
the sale of the suit property.
7.It is further stated that after filing of the suit O.S.No.1644 of 1969 under
the guise of the present suit, the plaintiffs have attempted to encroach upon
the properties of the defendants and the plaintiffs are not entitled to the
relief of specific performance, as they have not come with clean hands. They
also took a specific plea that the suit is barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC and
therefore, the suit is liable to the dismissed.
8.The additional written statement was filed by the 3rd defendant and the same
was adopted by the defendants 1, 2, 4 to 5 stating that the Agreement of Sale
is a forged and fabricated one and it must have been fabricated in collusion
with Sadayappa Nadar and the plaintiffs have no means to pay the balance sale
consideration and the alleged payment of advance of Rs.15,000/- and subsequent
payment of Rs.5.,000/- are all false and no agreement was executed and no
receipt was executed for Rs.5,000/-.
9.The plaintiffs filed a reply statement denying the allegation that they have
no means to pay the balance sale consideration and also the allegation that
the plaintiffs were in possession of the suit property, pursuant to the
Agreement of Sale. They further stated that all the defendants were present,
when agreement was entered into and they were fully aware of the execution of
the agreement and the payments made by the plaintiffs and due to passage of
time, the correct name of the defendants 2 and 3 were not stated properly in
the plaint and the second plaintiff attested the Agreement of Sale and the 3rd
defendant attested the receipt and the mistake committed in the plaint was
only due to loss of memory. As the defendants 2 and 3 were aware of the
Agreement of Sale and also signed in the Agreement of Sale and in the receipt
,they are estopped from challenging the same. The price quoted by the
defendants was imaginary and the property was not worth for Rs.2,00,000/- on
the date of Agreement of Sale and Thirumalaisamy Nadar himself conveyed the
adjacent property for less than the value, recited in the Agreement in the
year 1979. It is also stated that the agreement is a genuine one and every
correction is countersigned by Thirumalaisamy Nadar, the vendor and there was
no interpolation as alleged by the defendants. When the plaintiffs have
sufficient means to pay the balance sale consideration and more than 50% of
the sale consideration was paid, the plaintiffs are entitled to the relief of
specific performance.
9.On the basis of the pleadings, the following issues were framed in
O.S.No.1595 of 1987:-
(1)Whether the suit is premature?
(2)Whether the suit is barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC?
(3).Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to the relief of specific performance
or in alternative of return of advance amount?
(4)To what reliefs?
In O.S.No.248 of 1992:
(1).Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to the relief of injunction?
(2).To what reliefs, the plaintiffs are entitled to?
10.On the side of the plaintiffs, the 2nd plaintiff was examined as PW1 and on
the side of the defendants, the second defendant examined himself as DW1 and
also examined one Murali as DW2 and on the side of the plaintiffs, 26
documents were marked and on the side of the defendants, 12 documents were
marked and the Commissioner's report, plan and photos were marked as Exs.C1 to
C3 in respect of the suit property.
11.The trial court tried the issue No.2 in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 and held that
at the time of filling of the suit O.S.No.2047 of 1987, which was latter
transferred and renumbered as O.S.No.248 of 1992, the cause of action relating
to specific performance was not available to the plaintiffs and the time
provided for performance of contract as per Agreement of Sale was not arrived
at and therefore, there was no need for the plaintiffs to pray for specific
performance and as their possession was disturbed by the defendants, they
filed a suit for injunction and in that suit, the defendants took the plea
that Agreement of Sale was not genuine one and therefore, the cause of action
arose for the plaintiffs to file the suit O.S.NO.1595 of 1987 and therefore,
O.S.No.1595 of 1987 is not barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC.
12.Issue Nos.1,3 in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 and O.S.No.248 of 1992 were tried
together and the trial court held that the Agreement of Sale, Ex.A1 is not a
genuine agreement and the plaintiffs failed to prove that the Agreement of
Sale was executed by Sadayappa Thevar and stated the following reasons for
arriving at such conclusion:-
(1)Though the signature of Thirumalaisamy Nadar in Ex.A1 and the admitted
signature of Thirumalasamy Nadar found in Exs.A13 and A21 appears to be
similar, there are certain similarity and dissimilarity between those
signatures and there is difference in the signature of Thirumalaisamy Nadar in
Exs.A1 and A2 and Ex.A1 cannot be accepted in the absence of examination of
any other witnesses and except PW1, no attempt was made to examine the Scribe
and therefore, the Agreement of Sale cannot be believed , (2)Even according to
the plaintiffs, the 2nd plaintiff was a sub-tenant under Sadayappa Thevar and
he was in possession and enjoyment of the property and that was falsified by
the recitals in Ex.A1, wherein it is stated that the suit property is in
possession of the first plaintiff and the first plaintiff is entitled to use
the property for herself or for her husband's business and Thirumalaisamy
Nadar has no objection for the same. In the Agreement of Sale, it is further
stated that the first plaintiff was in possession of the property, whereas in
the plaint, it is stated that the 2nd plaintiff was in possession of the
property and it is also admitted in the plaint that the plaintiffs are in
possession of the property in part performance and therefore, that would lead
to conclusion that possession was handed over only under the document and that
is contra to the stand taken by the plaintiffs.
(3)Considering the commissioner's report and plan and the evidence of PW1 and
Ex.A1, the objection raised by the defendants that the suit property and the
property mentioned in the Agreement of Sale are not identical can be accepted.
13.The trial court further held that it is the case of the plaintiffs that the
2nd plaintiff was put in possession as sub-tenant in the year 1975 by
Sadayappa Thevar and since then, he continued to be in possession of the
property and even according PW1, he was in possession of some other property,
which was the subject matter in O.S.Nos.510 and 544 of 1977 and after handing
over the possession of that property, he got possession of the suit property
and admittedly, he handed over the possession only in 1979 and till then, he
was prosecuting the said two cases and therefore, he could not be in
possession of the suit property and could not be put in possession in the year
1979 as per Ex.A1.
14.The trial court further held that the plaintiffs failed to prove that they
have put up superstructure by adducing convincing evidence and there are
disputes regarding persons, who signed as witnesses in Exs.A1 and A2 and there
are interpolations in Ex.A1 and no proper explanation has been given by the
plaintiffs and the plaintiffs failed to prove the payment of Rs.15,,000/- as
per Ex.A2 and on those basis, court held that the execution of the agreement
of sale by Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the first plaintiff was not proved.
15.The trial court further held that even assuming that the Agreement of Sale
is a genuine one, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the discretionary relief
of specific performance and the plaintiffs are not in possession of the suit
property and they are not entitled to the relief of injunction. The trial
court also answered Issue No.1 and 4 in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 and Issue No.2 in
O.s.No.248 of 1992 holding that as per Agreement of Sale, the right to enforce
the specific performance of contract arose only after getting decree in
O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and on the date of fling of the Suit O.S.No.1644 of 1969
and section 9 applications were pending and therefore, the plaintiffs were not
entitled to seek specific performance of contract on the date of filing and
the suit was also premature. In the result, the suits were dismissed.
Aggrieved by the same, these appeal suits were filed.
16.Mr.T.M.Hariharan, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the
trial court without properly appreciating the evidence of PW1 and the plaint
erred in holding that the Agreement of Sale Ex.A1 was not a genuine document
and it must have been forged and the plaintiffs/appellants cannot claim any
relief under the document.
17.The learned counsel further submitted that the possession of the second
plaintiff was admitted by the respondents/defendants and only denied the
Agreement of Sale Ex.A1 and the trial court rightly held that the signature of
Thirumalaisamy found in Ex.A1 is similar to the signature of Thirumalaisamy
found in Exs.A13 to A21 and therefore, the trial court ought to have held that
Ex.A1 was executed by Thirumalaisamy and the first plaintiff and erred in
holding that there are some minor differences in the signature of the
Thirumalaisamy Nadar found in Ex.A1 and in other documents viz., A2, A13 to
A21 and therefore, Ex.A1 could not have been executed by Thirumalaisamy Nadar
and the trial court having found that due to difference in period, namely 1969
and 1979, the difference in signature will not have much importance, ought to
have held that Ex.A1 was a genuine one and the trial court erred in holding
that Ex.A1cannot be accepted in the absence of corroborative evidence.
18.He further submitted that the first plaintiff and Thirumalaisamy Nadar were
parties to Ex.A1 and it was attested by the 2nd defendant and another person
and it is the specific case of the plaintiffs that the Scribe was brought by
Thirumalaisamy Nadar. It is the further case of the appellants that Ex.A2
receipt was issued by Thirumalaisamy Nadar, for having received Rs.5,000/- as
per Agreement of Sale Ex.A1 and the receipt was attested by the 3rd defendant.
Though, the 2nd defendant was examined as DW1 and he denied the signature
found in Ex.A1, no attempt was made by the defendants to examine the 3rd
defendant to deny the signature in the receipt. The non-examination of the 3rd
defendant to disprove the signature found in Ex.A1 would only lead to the
conclusion that Exs.A1 andA2 are genuine documents and Ex.A2 receipt was
issued, pursuant to the recitals in Ex.A1 and therefore, the trial court ought
not to have held that Exs.A1 and A2 are genuine documents and ought to have
granted the relief of specific performance .
19.He also submitted that the trial court erred in holding that there are
interpolations and corrections in Ex.A1 and that would also create suspicion
about the genuinity of Ex.A1. He further submitted that all the corrections
are duly endorsed in the documents itself and therefore, it cannot be stated
that by reason of the corrections and interpolation in Ex.A1 cannot be
accepted. The trial court also erroneously held that the 2nd plaintiff would
not have come into possession of the suit property in 1975 as alleged by him,
inasmuch as he filed the suit O.S.No.510 of 1977 and against him another suit
in O.s.No.544 of 1977 was filed in respect of other properties, where he was
in possession and according to him, after handing over the possession of that
property, he came into possession of the suit property and as per proceedings
in O.S.No.510 and 544 of 1977 he was in possession of the other properties
till 1979 and therefore, he would not have come into possession of the suit
propriety in 1975.
20.The learned counsel further submitted that it is not the case of the
plaintiffs that after vacating the suit property, 2nd plaintiff came into
possession of the suit property and it is the specific case of the 2nd
plaintiff that in the year 1975, he became a sub-tenant under Sadapayya Thevar
and that was also accepted by the defendants and therefore, the trial ought
not to have given much importance to the proceedings in O.S.Nos.510 and 544 of
1977. He, therefore, submitted that considering the fact that Ex.A1 was proved
by examining PW1 and the failure on the apart of the defendants, in not
examining 3rd defendant to disprove the signature found in Ex.A2 and the fact
that the appellants were in possession of the property, which was also
admitted by the defendants in Ex.A9, the trial court ought to have held that
the documents Exs.A1 and A2 are genuine documents and the appellants are
entitled to the relief of specific performance.
21.He further submitted that the appellants also proved their readiness and
willingness to complete the sale transaction and marked the savings bank
account pass book as Exs.A3 and A4 to prove that they had means to pay the
balance sale consideration. He also submitted that the trial court having
rightly held that the suit in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was not barred under Order 2
Rule 2 CPC, ought to have decreed the suit as prayed for. He further submitted
that it cannot be contended that O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was barred under Order 2
Rule 2 CPC and inasmuch as at the time of filing of the suit O.S.No.248 of
1992, the cause of action for filing the suit for specific performance did not
arise and the possession of the plaintiffs was disturbed and interfered with
by the defendants and that was the cause of action for filing the suit
O.S.No.248 of 1992 and as per the Agreement of Sale Ex.A1, the right to sue
accrues only after Thirumalaisamy Nadar obtained recovery of possession in
O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and admittedly, O.S.No.1644 of 1969 was decreed only on
26.11.1992 as per Ex.A9 and therefore, in the year 1987, no cause of action
arose for the relief of specific performance and therefore, the O.S.No.1595 of
1987 was not barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC.
22.He relief upon the following judgments:-
(1)(1964)7 SCR 831: AIR 1964 SC 1810 in the case of Gurbux Singh vs.
Bhooralal.
(2)(2004)3 SCC 277 in the case of Kunjan Nair Sivaraman Nair vs. Narayanan
Nair and others, in support of contention that the suit is not barred under
Order 2 Rule CPC.
23.He also relied upon the judgment reported in (2002)8 SCC 146 in the case of
Nirmala Anand vs. Advent Corporation (P) Ltd and others. in support of his
contention that increase in price or escalation of price cannot be a
consideration to deny the relief of specific performance and also relied upon
the following judgments:-
1.(2007)10 SCC 231, in the case of P.S.Ranakrishna Reddy vs. M.K.Bhagyalakshmi
and another.
2.(2008)11 SCC in the case of Silvey and others vs. Arun Varghese and another.
3.Vol.89 LW 419 in the case of Manickathammal vs. Nallasami Pillai,i in
support of his contention that in a suit for specific performance, the conduct
of the defendants in taking a false plea also should be taken into account and
in this case, the defendants have taken a false plea that the plaintiffs were
not put in possession of the property, even though the plaintiffs' possession
was admitted in Ex.A9 and therefore, ought to have granted the relief of
specific performance.
24.On the other hand, Mr.M.S.Krishnan, the learned Senior counsel appearing
for the respondents submitted that the suit is clearly barred under Order 2
Rule 2 CPC, having regard to the pleadings in O.S.No.248 of 1992. He further
submitted that the plaintiffs filed O.S.No.2047 of 1987 on the file of the
District Munsif Court, Coimbatore, against the defendants for injunction,
which was latter transferred and renumbered as O.S.No248 of 1992 and in that
suit in para 8, it is specifically averred that the the defendants in an
obvious attempt to ignore their obligations under the agreement, wanted to
enrich themselves unjustly and taking advantage of the Dasara Holidays, the
defendants represented and led by the 5th defendant gathered a few hooligans
and rowdy elements, and visited the suit property on 30.09.1987 and threatened
to dispossess the plaintiffs from the suit property by force. Therefore, they
made it clear that the defendants were not willing to act, according to the
terms of the agreement and also threatened to dispossess the plaintiffs by
force. Therefore, even on 30.09.1987, the plaintiffs were aware that the
defendants were not going to execute the Sale Deed and therefore, the cause of
action for filing the suit for specific performance was available to the
plaintiffs, when they have filed O.S.No.2047 of 1987, latter renumbered as
O.S.No.248 of 1992 and having omitted to obtain leave from the court, while
filing the suit in O.S.No.2047 of 1987, the present suit in O.S.No.1595 of
1987 was clearly barred under Order 2 Rule 2 of CPC.
25.He also submitted that the plaintiffs were also aware that they were
entitled to file a suit for specific performance on the date of filling
O.S.No.2047 of 1987 and that was also made clear by the averments in para 8 of
the plaint in OS.No.2047 of 1987, wherein the plaintiffs reserved the right to
file the suit for specific performance to enforce the agreement, dated
25..03.1979 at the appropriate time. Therefore, he submitted that when the
right to sue for the relief of specific performance was available, at the time
filing of the earlier suit without praying for specific performance, the
plaintiffs filed the suit for bare injunction without obtaining leave from the
court, they are not entitled to file a separate suit for specific performance
subsequently and therefore, the suit is clearly barred under Order 2 Rule 2
CPC, as held in (2013)1 SCC 625 in the case of Virgo Industries Eng. Private
Limited vs. Venturetech Solutions Private Limited. He, therefore, submitted
that the trial court erred in holding that O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was not barred
under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC and the trial court ought to have dismissed the suit
on that ground.
26.The learned Senior counsel further submitted that the trial court rightly
held that the present suit for specific performance is not maintainable and
the plaintiffs failed to prove the genuineness of Exs.A1 and A2. He further
submitted that the plaintiffs cannot take advantage of the non-examination of
the 3rd defendant, who alleged to have witnessed in Ex.A2, when the plaintiffs
failed to prove Exs.A1 and A2. He further submitted that only after the
plaintiffs discharged the burden of proving Exs.A1 and A2, the defendants have
to give contra evidence and in this case, the plaintiffs failed to prove the
execution of Exs.A1 and Ex.A2 and therefore, there is no necessity for the
defendants to disprove the signature found in Exs.A1 and A2. He further
submitted that the evidence of PW1 is not consistent regarding Exs.A1 and A2.
Though PW1 would state that scribe was brought in by Thirumalaisamy Nadar and
one of the witnesses is the 2nd defendant, nothing would have prevented, the
plaintiffs from examining the other witnesses or summoning the scribe and no
attempt was made by the plaintiffs, either summoning the scribe or examining
the other witnesses and considering the same, the trial court held that Exs.A1
and A2 were not proved by the plaintiffs. He also submitted that though
corrections and interpolations were endorsed in Ex.A1, considering the style
of writing of the body of Ex.A1 and corrections in Ex.A1 that would prove that
the corrections would have been made by some other persons, at a later point
of time. He further submitted that the plaintiffs tampered with Ex.A1 with
regard to consideration and extent and therefore, the plaintiffs are not
entitled to the discretionary relief of specific performance. He also
submitted that the trial court has rightly held that the plaintiffs could not
be in possession in the year 1975 as alleged by them, having regard to the
proceedings in O.S.No.510 and 544 of 1977.
27.It is admitted by PW1 that after he vacated the premises in which he was
doing business, which was the subject matter of O.S.Nos.510 and 544 of 1977,
he became a sub-tenant under Sadayappa Nadar. It is seen from Ex.A25, a memo
filed in O.S.No.544 of 1977 that the suit was compromised on 18.02.1980 and a
memo was filed to that effect on that date itself and on that basis, the suits
were dismissed as settled out of court. He further submitted that C.M.ANos.131
and 132 of 1978 were disposed of on 06.10.1978 as per Exs.A23 and Ex.A24 and
that would also prove that the 2nd plaintiff was contesting the case in
respect of his possession in respect of other properties till 1978 and
therefore, he would not have come into possession in the year 1975 and that
was properly appreciated by the trial court. He further submitted that no
particulars were given by the plaintiffs regarding the stand taken by them as
a sub-tenant from Sadayappa Thevar and having regard to the recitals in Ex.A1,
the case of the plaintiffs cannot be accepted. He further submitted that under
Ex.A1, the possession of the 1st plaintiff was admitted and permission was
granted to the first plaintiff to let out the property for doing business of
her husband and therefore, that would imply that on the date of execution of
Ex.A1, PW1 was not doing business in the suit property and the first plaintiff
was in possession and therefore, the contention of the plaintiffs that they
were doing business in the suit property, even prior to the execution of the
sale deed, cannot be accepted. He also submitted that as per Ex.A1, possession
was given in part performance of the agreement of sale and that was also
admitted by the plaintiffs in that pleadings and when possession was given in
part performance that would imply that earlier to that, the plaintiffs were
not in possession and enjoyment of the property and these aspects were rightly
considered by the courts below to deny the relief of specific performance.
28.The learned Senior counsel further submitted that circumstances would lead
only to the conclusion that Ex.A1 would not have been executed as alleged by
the plaintiffs. Admittedly, O.S.No.1644 of 1969 was pending at the time of
execution of Ex.A1 and Sadayappa Thevar filed application under 9 of the Tamil
Nadu Tenants Protection Act, for claiming ownership over the leasehold
properties. According to the plaintiffs, the 2nd plaintiff was a sub-tenant
under Sadayappa Thevar and as per recitals in Ex.A1, the plaintiffs were aware
of the pendency of O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and the petition filed by the lessee
Sadayappa Thevar claiming benefits under 9 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of
Tenancy Act and therefore, in such circumstances, no prudent man would enter
into the agreement of sale, when the right of Thirumalaisamy Nadar to execute
a sale deed was in dispute, due to the pendency of the application filed by
Sadayappa Thevar. The compromise between the legal-heirs of Sadayappa Thevar
and the legal-heirs of Thirumalaisamy Nadar viz., the defendants came into
being only in 1992 and in the year 1987, it was not certain, whether the
Thirumalaisamy Nadar was in a position to execute the sale deed in respect of
the property, which was in possession of Sadayappa Thevar. Therefore, the
plaintiffs would not have entered into an agreement of sale, by paying
substantial amount as consideration and considering all these aspects, the
trial court has rightly held that agreement of sale would not have entered
into.
29.He also relied upon the following judgments, in support of ins contention.
1.(2013)1 SCC 625, in the case of Virgo Industries (Eng) Private Limited vs.
Venturetech Solutions Private Limited.
2.AIR 2003 SC 1989: (2003)9 SCC 606, in the caser of Banarsi and others vs.
Ram Phal.
3.AIR 2011 SC 3234; (2011)12 SC 18, in the case of Mrs.Saradamani Kandappan
vs. Mrs.S.Rajalakshmi and others.
30.On the basis of the submissions, the following points arise for
consideration in both the appeal suits.
1.Whether the Agreement of Sale Ex.A1 and Ex.A2 the receipt are genuine as
claimed by the plaintiffs?
2.Whether the plaintiffs were put in possession and enjoyment of the suit
property, pursuant to the Agreement of Sale or the 2nd plaintiff was in
possession of the suit property earlier to the Agreement of Sale?
3.Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to the discretionary relief of specific
performance?
4.Whether the suit in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC?
31.Point No.4: Admittedly, O.S.No.2047 of 1987 was filed by the plaintiffs for
bare injunction and it is stated in the plaint that an agreement, dated
27.03.1979 was entered into between Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the first
plaintiff for conveying the suit property for a sum of Rs.36,300/- and an
advance of Rs.15,000/- was paid and additional sum of Rs.5,000/- was also paid
within a month and necessary receipt was also issued by Thirumalaisamy Nadar.
The possession of the first plaintiff was also admitted in Ex.A1 Agreement of
Sale. It is also alleged that the plaintiffs are always ready and willing to
perform their part of contract and pay the balance sale consideration and got
the sale deed in their names. It is further stated that as the suit in
O.S.No.1644 of 1969 was pending, the sale could not be completed. It is also
stated that the time stipulated for the performance of obligations under the
Agreement of Sale has not arisen and two months period would commence from the
date of final disposal of O.S.No.1644 of 1969.
32.It is further stated that the plaintiffs approached the 3rd defendant and
enquired about the position of O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and the 3rd defendant
informed the 2nd plaintiff, soon-after the disposal of the said case, they
would execute the sale deed. Nevertheless, in para 8, it is stated that the
defendants in an obvious attempt to ignore their obligations under the
agreement wanted to enrich themselves unjustly and taking advantage of the
Dasara Holidays, the defendants represented and led by the 5th defendant
gathered a few hooligans and rowdy elements and threatened to dispossess the
plaintiffs from the suit property by force on 30.09.1987. It is also stated in
para 8 that the plaintiffs reserved the right to file a suit for specific
performance to enforce the Agreement of Sale , dated 25..03.1979 at the
appropriate time. Therefore, the plaintiffs are aware that the defendants have
conducted in such a manner, that would give an indication that they were not
inclined to act according to the terms of the Agreement of Sale and made it
clear in para 8 that the defendants in an obvious attempt to ignore their
obligations under the agreement wanted to enrich themselves unjustly.
Therefore, the averments made in para 8 of the plaint in O.S.No.2047 of 1987
would make it clear that the plaintiffs were aware that the defendants were
not going to execute the sale deed as per the Agreement of Sale. They also
reserved the right to file the suit for specific performance at the
appropriate time, but leave was not obtained from the court .Therefore, the
plaintiffs were conscious of their right to file a suit for specific
performance and having regard to the conduct of the defendants, the plaintiffs
were also aware that the defendants would not act as per the terms of
Agreement of Sale and therefore, the cause of action for filing the suit for
specific performance was available to the plaintiffs, even on the date of
filing of the suit O.S.No.2047 of 1987. Nevertheless, they did not file the
suit for specific performance and were content with the suit for bare
injunction and therefore, it cannot be contended by the plaintiffs that as per
the Agreement of Sale, cause of auction for filing the suit for specific
performance would arise two months after the disposal of OS.No.1644 of 1969.
In a suit for specific performance, though time has been mentioned for
performing the contract, when the parties expressed or conducted themselves in
a manner, which would give an indication that one party was not interested in
fulfilling the obligations under the contract, the other party cannot wait for
the expiry of the time given in the agreement and the other party ought to
have filed the suit for specific performance immediately to show his bona
fide.
33.Under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC, when a suit was filed on the basis of certain
cause of action, the plaint shall include whole claim, which the plaintiff is
entitled to make in respect of the said cause of action and all reliefs
arising out of the same cause of action, shall be set out in one and the same
suit. In this suit, the cause of action arose for the plaintiffs to file the
suit O.S.No.2047 of 1987 was the attempt made by the defendants in interfering
with their possession and enjoyment of the suit property. At that time, the
defendants also made it clear that they would not act as per the terms of the
agreement or in other-words the plaintiffs realised by the conduct of the
defendants that the defendants would not act as per the Agreement of Sale. The
plaintiffs also admitted that in para 6 of the present suit in O.S.No.1595 of
1987 that the plaintiffs were in possession of the suit property in part
performance and that was admitted by Thirumalaisamy Nadar. Therefore, when the
plaintiffs were in possession of the property in part performance of Agreement
of Sale and when that possession was attempted to be interfered with by the
defendants and the conduct of the defendants also made it clear that they are
not honouring the agreement, the cause of action for filing of the suit for
specific performance and also for injunction arose and at that time, filing
the suit for bare injunction without filing the suit for specific performance,
would only lead to conclusion that the plaintiffs omitted to include all the
reliefs, arising out of the same cause of action. In other-words, it cannot be
contended that the cause of action for filing the suit for specific
performance did not arise, when the possession of the plaintiffs was attempted
to be interfered with and therefore, the plaintiffs were justified in not
including the relief of specific performance, while filing the suit
O.S.No.2047 of 1987.
34.In this connection, it is pertinent to refer the judgment reported in
(2004) 2 SCC 277 in the case of Kunjan Nair Sivaraman Nair vs. Narayanan Nair
and others, the Hon'ble Supreme Court interpreted Order 2 Rule 2 as follows:-
"8. A mere look at the provisions shows that once the plaintiff comes to a
court of law for getting any redress basing his case on an existing cause of
action, he must include in his suit the whole claim pertaining to that cause
of action. But if he gives up a part of the claim based on the said cause of
action or omits to sue in connection with the same, then he cannot
subsequently resurrect the said claim based on the same cause of action. So
far as sub-rule (3) is concerned, before the second suit of the plaintiff can
be held to be barred by the same, it must be shown that the second suit is
based on the same cause of action on which the earlier suit was based and if
the cause of action is the same in both the suits and if in the earlier suit
the plaintiff had not sued for any of the reliefs available to it on the basis
of that cause of action, the reliefs which it had failed to press into service
in that suit cannot be subsequently prayed for except with the leave of the
court. It must, therefore, be shown by the defendants for supporting their
plea of bar of Order 2 Rule 2 sub-rule (3) that the second suit of the
plaintiff filed is based on the same cause of action on which its earlier suit
was based and that because it had not prayed for any relief and it had not
obtained leave of the court in that connection, it cannot sue for that relief
in the present second suit. A Constitution Bench of this case of Gurbux Singh
v. Bhooralal AIR 1964 SC 1810 : (1964)7 SCR 831 in this connection has laid
down as under: (AIR p. 1812, para 6) 6. In order that a plea of a bar under
Order 2 Rule 2(3), Civil Procedure Code should succeed the defendant who
raises the plea must make out (1) that the second suit was in respect of the
same cause of action as that on which the previous suit was based; (2) that in
respect of that cause of action the plaintiff was entitled to more than one
relief; (3) that being thus entitled to more than one relief the plaintiff,
without leave obtained from the court omitted to sue for the relief for which
the second suit had been filed. From this analysis it would be seen that the
defendant would have to establish primarily and to start with, the precise
cause of action upon which the previous suit was filed, for unless there is
identity between the cause of action on which the earlier suit was filed and
that on which the claim in the later suit is based there would be no scope for
the application of the bar. No doubt, a relief which is sought in a plaint
could ordinarily be traceable to a particular cause of action but this might,
by no means, be the universal rule. As the plea is a technical bar it has to
be established satisfactorily and cannot be presumed merely on basis of
inferential reasoning. It is for this reason that we consider that a plea of a
bar under Order 2 Rule 2, Civil Procedure Code can be established only if the
defendant files in evidence the pleadings in the previous suit and thereby
proves to the court the identity of the cause of action in the two suits. It
is common ground that the pleadings in CS No. 28 of 1950 were not filed by the
appellant in the present suit as evidence in support of his plea under Order 2
Rule 2, Civil Procedure Code. The learned trial Judge, however, without these
pleadings being on the record inferred what the cause of action should have
been from the reference to the previous suit contained in the plaint as a
matter of deduction. At the stage of the appeal the learned District Judge
noticed this lacuna in the appellants case and pointed out, in our opinion,
rightly that without the plaint in the previous suit being on the record, a
plea of a bar under Order 2 Rule 2, Civil Procedure Code was not
maintainable.:
9\. The above position was again illuminatingly highlighted by this Court in
Bengal Waterproof Ltd. v. Bombay Waterproof Mfg. Co. [(1997)1 SCC 99]
10\. Order 2 Rule 2 sub-rule (3) requires that the cause of action in the
earlier suit must be the same on which the subsequent suit is based.
Therefore, there must be identical cause of action in both the suits, to
attract the bar of Order 2 sub-rule (3). The illustrations given under the
rule clearly brings out this position. Above is the ambit and scope of the
provision as highlighted in Gurbux Singh case [AIR 1964 SC 1810 : (1964)7 SCR
831] by the Constitution Bench and in Bengal Waterproof Ltd. [(1997)1 SCC 99]
The salutary principle behind Order 2 Rule 2 is that a defendant or defendants
should not be vexed time and again for the same cause by splitting the claim
and the reliefs for being indicted in successive litigations. It is,
therefore, provided that the plaintiff must not abandon any part of the claim
without the leave of the court and must claim the whole relief or entire
bundle of reliefs available to him in respect of that very same cause of
action. He will thereafter be precluded from so doing in any subsequent
litigation that he may commence if he has not obtained the prior permission of
the court.
35.In the said judgment, having regard to the facts of that case, the Hon'ble
Supreme court has held that Order 2 Rule 2 CPC will not apply.
36.As a matter of fact, the facts of the case, in the judgment reported in
(2013)1SCC 625 in the case of Virgo Industries (Eng.) Private Limited vs.
Venturetech Solutions Private Limited, is similar to the facts of the present
case.
37.In the said judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court discussed the scope of
Order 2 Rule 2 CPC and held that when there is an Agreement of Sale and
without filing a suit for specific performance to enforce the Agreement of
Sale, if an agreement-holder filed a suit for injunction and latter on, filed
a suit for specific performance, the later suit is barred under Order 2 Rule
2, as the right to seek the relief of specific performance was available,
while filing the first suit and dismissed the second suit under Order 2 Rule 2
CPC.
38.In that judgment, it is stated that the cardinal requirement for
application of the provisions contained in Order 2 Rule 2 CPC is that the
cause of action in the later suit must be the same as in the first suit.
Having regard to the facts of that case, it is held by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court as follows:-
"14. The averments made by the plaintiff in CSs Nos. 831 and 833 of 2005,
particularly the pleadings extracted above, leave no room for doubt that on
the dates when CSs Nos. 831 and 833 of 2005 were instituted, namely, 28-8-2005
and 9-9-2005, the plaintiff itself had claimed that facts and events have
occurred which entitled it to contend that the defendant had no intention to
honour the agreements dated 27-7-2005. In the aforesaid situation it was open
for the plaintiff to incorporate the relief of specific performance along with
the relief of permanent injunction that formed the subject-matter of the above
two suits. The foundation for the relief of permanent injunction claimed in
the two suits furnished a complete cause of action to the plaintiff in CSs
Nos. 831 and 833 to also sue for the relief of specific performance. Yet, the
said relief was omitted and no leave in this regard was obtained or granted by
the Court."
39.It is also held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that in the instant case,
though leave to sue for the relief of specific performance at a later stage
was claimed by the plaintiff, admittedly, no such leave was granted by the
court. In the present case also, though leave was claimed in the plaint, no
leave was obtained. While explaining the scope of Order 2 Rule 2 CPC, the
Hon'ble Supreme court has held as follows:-
"9. Order 2 Rule 1 requires every suit to include the whole of the claim to
which the plaintiff is entitled in respect of any particular cause of action.
However, the plaintiff has an option to relinquish any part of his claim if he
chooses to do so. Order 2 Rule 2 contemplates a situation where a plaintiff
omits to sue or intentionally relinquishes any portion of the claim which he
is entitled to make. If the plaintiff so acts, Order 2 Rule 2 CPC makes it
clear that he shall not, afterwards, sue for the part or portion of the claim
that has been omitted or relinquished. It must be noticed that Order 2 Rule
2(2) does not contemplate omission or relinquishment of any portion of the
plaintiffs claim with the leave of the court so as to entitle him to come
back later to seek what has been omitted or relinquished. Such leave of the
court is contemplated by Order 2 Rule 2(3) in situations where a plaintiff
being entitled to more than one relief on a particular cause of action, omits
to sue for all such reliefs. In such a situation, the plaintiff is precluded
from bringing a subsequent suit to claim the relief earlier omitted except in
a situation where leave of the court had been obtained. It is, therefore,
clear from a conjoint reading of the provisions of Order 2 Rules 2(2) and (3)
CPC that the aforesaid two sub-rules of Order 2 Rule 2 contemplate two
different situations, namely, where a plaintiff omits or relinquishes a part
of a claim which he is entitled to make and, secondly, where the plaintiff
omits or relinquishes one out of the several reliefs that he could have
claimed in the suit. It is only in the latter situations where the plaintiff
can file a subsequent suit seeking the relief omitted in the earlier suit
proved that at the time of omission to claim the particular relief he had
obtained leave of the court in the first suit.
10\. The object behind the enactment of Order 2 Rules 2(2) and (3) CPC is not
far to seek. The Rule engrafts a laudable principle that discourages/prohibits
vexing the defendant again and again by multiple suits except in a situation
where one of the several reliefs, though available to a plaintiff, may not
have been claimed for a good reason. A later suit for such relief is
contemplated only with the leave of the court which leave, naturally, will be
granted upon due satisfaction and for good and sufficient reasons. The
situations where the bar under Order 2 Rules 2(2) and (3) will be attracted
have been enumerated in a long line of decisions spread over a century now.
Though each of the aforesaid decisions contain a clear and precise narration
of the principles of law arrived at after a detailed analysis, the principles
laid down in the judgment of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Gurbux
Singh v. Bhooralal [AIR 1964 SC 1810] may be usefully recalled below: (AIR p.
1812, para 6) 6. In order that a plea of a bar under Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the
Civil Procedure Code should succeed the defendant who raises the plea must
make out (1) that the second suit was in respect of the same cause of action
as that on which the previous suit was based; (2) that in respect of that
cause of action the plaintiff was entitled to more than one relief; (3) that
being thus entitled to more than one relief the plaintiff, without leave
obtained from the court, omitted to sue for the relief for which the second
suit had been filed. From this analysis it would be seen that the defendant
would have to establish primarily and to start with, the precise cause of
action upon which the previous suit was filed, for unless there is identity
between the cause of action on which the earlier suit was filed and that on
which the claim in the later suit is based there would be no scope for the
application of the bar. The above principles have been reiterated in several
later judgments of this Court. Reference by way of illustration may be made to
the judgments in Deva Ram v. Ishwar Chand [(1995)6 SCC 733] and Bengal
Waterproof Ltd. v. Bombay Waterproof Mfg. Co. [(1997)1 SCC 99 : AIR 1997 SC
1398].
11\. The cardinal requirement for application of the provisions contained in
Order 2 Rules 2(2) and (3), therefore, is that the cause of action in the
later suit must be the same as in the first suit. It will be wholly
unnecessary to enter into any discourse on the true meaning of the said
expression i.e. cause of action, particularly, in view of the clear
enunciation in a recent judgment of this Court in Church of Christ Charitable
Trust and Educational Charitable Society v. Ponniamman Educational Trust
[(2012)8 SCC 706 : (2012)4 SCC (Civ) 612]. The huge number of opinions
rendered on the issue including the judicial pronouncements available does not
fundamentally detract from what is stated in Halsburys Laws of England (4th
Edn.). The following reference from the above work would, therefore, be apt
for being extracted hereinbelow:
Cause of action has been defined as meaning simply a factual situation
existence of which entitles one person to obtain from the Court a remedy
against another person. The phrase has been held from the earliest time to
include every fact which is material to be proved to entitle the plaintiff to
succeed, and every fact which a defendant would have a right to traverse.
Cause of action has also been taken to mean that particular action on the
part of the defendant which gives the plaintiff his cause of complaint, or the
subject-matter of grievance founding the action, not merely the technical
cause of action.
40.Ultimately, the Hon'ble Supreme court held that there is no provision in
the Specific Relief Act 1953, which would require a plaintiff to wait for
expiry of the due date for the performance of agreement, in a situation where
the defendant made his intention clear not to act as per the agreement.
Therefore, having regard to the authoritative pronouncement of the Hon'ble
Supreme court in the above case, when the Agreement of Sale is admitted and
when the plaintiffs is aware that the defendants are not going to honour the
Agreement of Sale and the possession of the plaintiffs was sought to be
interfered with, the plaintiffs ought to have filed the suit for specific
performance and for injunction and if he omitted to sue for specific
performance, but content with filing the suit for injunction without obtaining
the leave from the court, the subsequent suit for specific performance is
clearly barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also made
it clear that the plaintiff cannot say that the time, for filing the suit for
specific performance has not arisen as per the Agreement of Sale.
41.Even accepting the case of the plaintiffs that at time of filing of the
suit O.S.No.2047 of 1987, the cause of action for the suit for specific
performance did not arise as per the Agreement of Sale Ex.A1 as the defendants
agreed to execute the sale deed within two months from the date of getting
relief in O.S.No.1644 of 1969 and the suit was pending, what was the necessity
for the plaintiffs to file the suit in O.S.No.1595 of 1967 immediately after
the suit for injunction was filed. If really the cause of action for filing
the suit for specific performance has not arisen and the plaintiffs were
entitled to wait till the decree passed in O.S.No.1644 of 1969 in favour of
Thirumalaisamy Nadar or the cause of action for specific performance would
arise only after the expiry of two months from the date of decree passed in
O.S.No.1644 of 1969, the present suit filed in 1987 during the pendency of
O.S.No.1644 of 1969 would be a premature one. The fact that the plaintiffs
filed the suit in O.S.No.1595 of 1987 immediately after filing of the suit
O.S.No.2047 of 1987 would only lead to the conclusion that the cause of action
for filing the suit for specific performance was available at the time of
filing O.S.No.2047 of 1987 and the plaintiffs deliberately did not pray for
such relief while filing O.S.No.2047 of 1987 and no leave was obtained and
therefore, latter suit O.S.No.1598 of 1987 is clearly barred under Order 2
Rule 2 CPC.
42.Accordingly, the Point No.4 is answered against the appellants.
43.Having regard to the findings given to Point No.4 that the suit O.S.No.1595
of 1987 was barred under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC, there is no necessity to give any
finding in respect of the other points for consideration. Nevertheless, the
trial court dealt with all these issues and the parties also advanced
arguments on these points for consideration and therefore, I am also dealing
with the others points for consideration.
44.Point Nos.1 to 3:- It is settled law that in a suit for specific
performance, the plaintiff should come to the court with clean hands and
disclose all materials facts, should not be guilty of suppression of fact and
should prove his readiness and willing to enforce the agreement of sale from
the date of execution, till the date of getting the sale deed and also to
prove that he has got means to pay the balance sale consideration. When the
agreement of sale is disputed, a burden is also on the plaintiff to prove the
agreement of sale. In this case, the defendant denied the agreement of sale
Ex.A1 and therefore, the burden is on the plaintiffs to prove that agreement
of sale was executed between Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the plaintiffs and
advance of Rs.15,000/- was paid and thereafter, Rs.5000/- was also paid as per
Ex.A2. As stated supra, to prove Ex.A1, the 2nd plaintiff was examined as PW1,
and deposed about the execution of Ex.A1. There are two attesting witnesses to
Ex.A1 and according to the plaintiffs, the 2nd defendant is one attesting
witness and the 2nd plaintiff is the other attesting witness and it is the
case of the plaintiffs that the Scribe P.V.Narayanan was brought by
Thirumalaisamy Nadar and therefore, they were not able to examine any other
witness to prove Ex.A1. The second defendant examined himself as DW1 and
denied the signature. Therefore, we have to take the evidence of PW1, either
to believe or reject Ex.A1. To prove that the signature found in Ex.A1 is that
of Thirumalaisamy Nadar, the plaintiffs filed Exs.A13 to A20. The documents
were filed by Thirumalaisamy Nadar in O.S.No.1644 of 1969. The trial court
held that the signature found in Ex.A1 is similar to the signature of
Thirumalaisamy Nadar found in Exs.A13 to A20. The trial court, taking into
consideration of the totality of circumstances, disbelieved Ex.A1 and held
that Ex.A1 was not proved to have been executed by Thirumalaisamy Nadar.
According to me, the plaintiffs failed to prove the Ex.A1 for the following
reasons:-
(i)There are corrections in extent and amount in various places in the
agreement of sale. Though, corrections and interpolations were mentioned at
the bottom of the page to give an appearance of authenticity, having regard to
the difference in ink and the style of writing of the body of the agreement of
sale and the corrections and interpolations would make it clear that the
interpolations could not have been done at the time of execution or earlier to
that. Therefore, interpolations must have been done after the agreement of
sale was executed.
(ii)Further, it is doubtful whether the plaintiffs would have entered into
such agreement of sale and paid Rs.20,000/- in part performance of the
contract. The plaintiffs were aware that O.S.No.1644 of 1969 was pending at
the time of execution of Ex.A1. They were also aware that the tenant Sadayappa
Thevar filed petition under section 9 of the Tamil Nadu City Tenants
Protection Act, who purchased the leasehold property in his occupation. The
plaintiffs also claimed to be a subtenant under Sadayappa Thevar and in such
circumstances, it is highly doubtful whether the plaintiffs would have agreed
to purchase the property by paying 50% of the sale consideration. That would
only show that the plaintiffs were interested in purchasing litigation as the
2nd plaintiff was aware of the court proceedings and had experience in
conducting two cases viz., O.S.Nos.510 and 544 of 1977.
(iii)It is also not proved by the plaintiffs that they came into possession of
the suit property in the year 1975 as a subtenant. The plaintiff have not
stated the extent of land taken by them on sub-lease from Sadayappa Thevar.
Including the 2nd plaintiff, there were 12 sub-tenants under Sadapayya Thevar
and therefore, having regard to the total extent of land and the extent of
land claimed by the plaintiffs under the agreement of sale Ex.A1, it cannot be
believed that the plaintiffs were put in possession of the suit property.
(iv)It is not the case of the plaintiffs that they agreed to purchase the
extent mentioned in Ex.A1 and it is the specific case of the plaintiffs that
they were in possession of that extent and that was agreed to be sold under
Ex.A1. When the plaintiffs failed to give any details about the subtenancy
under Sadapaya Thevar, it cannot be believed that the plaintiffs were in
possession of the suit property even in the year 1975. It is the specific case
of the plaintiffs that in the year 1975, after the second plaintiff was asked
to vacate the property, in which he was doing business, he came into
possession under Sadayappa Thevar in the year 1975. That was proved to be
false by Ex.A25, the compromise filed in O.S.No.544 of 1997 on 18.12.1980.
Therefore, in the year 1979, the 2nd plaintiff would not have been in
possession of the property.
45.It is the admission of PW1 that after vacating the propriety, in which he
was doing business, which was the subject matter of O.S.Nos.510 and 544 of
1977, he became the subtenant under Sadayappa Thevar. The two suits were
settled on 18.12.1980 and thereafter, the 2nd defendant vacated the premises
and therefore he could not have been in possession of the property on that
date of agreement of sale. Further, it is the specific case of the PW1 that he
was inducted as the subtenant under Sadayappa Thevar and constructed a shed in
the leasehold property. But the recitals in Ex.A1 is contrary to his case. The
recitals in Ex.A1 would admit that the first plaintiff was in possession of
the suit property and the owner has no objection for the 2nd plaintiff to put
up any shed or using the suit property for his business. The plaintiffs also
did not file any proof to show that they came into possession of the property
in the year 1975 and constructed a shed as alleged by them. In the plaint, it
is stated that the plaintiffs were put in possession of the suit property in
part performance of the agreement of sale, which presupposes the fact that
earlier to that, the plaintiffs were not in possession and all these aspects,
were considered by the trial court and held that agreement of sale could not
be a genuine one as contended by the plaintiffs and I agree with the finding
of the trial court.
46.The second defendant was also not consistent with regard to Ex.A2 and in
the cross examination, he would state that Ex.A2 is not the receipt for the
payment of Rs.5,000/- and there is no receipt to prove the payment of
Rs.5,000/- and immediately, he has stated that the receipts were available for
payment of Rs.15,000/- and Rs.5,000/- and Exs.A1 and A2 were simultaneously
written. Therefore, taking into consideration of all these aspects, I am also
of the opinion that the plaintiffs miserably failed to prove Ex.A1. Hence, the
point for consideration No.1 is answered against the plaintiffs and when the
plaintiffs failed to prove the agreement of sale, there is no necessity to
give any finding for the points Nos.2 and 3.
47.All the judgments filed by both the counsel with regard to the relief of
specific performance are not relevant, as I held that the agreement of sale
Ex.A1 is not the genuine document and only after coming to the conclusion that
Ex.A1 is the genuine document, this court has to find out whether the
plaintiffs are ready and willing to perform their part of contract and whether
the plaintiff have got means or not, whether the plaintiffs are entitled to
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    A.S.Nos.312 of 1994 and 985 of 1997
    and
    CMP Nos.1793 and 1794 of 2008
    28.03.2014
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
    2.T.Ramanathan
    3.T.Ramakrishnan
    4.T.Ramanarayanan(died)
    5.T.Ramamoorthy
    6.Malarkodi
    7.Sriram
    8.Minor Saradha Devi
      [R8 represented by mother &
      Guardian Malarkodi]
      [RR6 to RR8 brought on record as 
      LRs of the deceased R4 vide order
      of this court, dated 14.10.2008
      made in  CMP No.1553 to 1555//08
      R6 appointed as Guardian]                        : Respondents/Defendants 
Appeal Suits filed under Section 96 of CPC against the Judgment and decree,
dated 27.01.1994 passed in Original Suit Nos.1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 by
the Sub Court, Coimbatore.
    		For Appellants            : Mr.T.M.Hariharan
    		For Respondents  	   : Mr.M.S.Krishnan
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
    2.T.Ramanathan
    3.T.Ramakrishnan
    4.T.Ramanarayanan(died)
    5.T.Ramamoorthy
    6.Malarkodi
    7.Sriram
    8.Minor Saradha Devi
      [R8 represented by mother &
      Guardian Malarkodi]
      [RR6 to RR8 brought on record as 
      LRs of the deceased R4 vide order
      of this court, dated 14.10.2008
      made in  CMP No.1553 to 1555//08
      R6 appointed as Guardian]                        : Respondents/Defendants 
Appeal Suits filed under Section 96 of CPC against the Judgment and decree,
dated 27.01.1994 passed in Original Suit Nos.1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 by
the Sub Court, Coimbatore.
    		For Appellants            : Mr.T.M.Hariharan
    		For Respondents  	   : Mr.M.S.Krishnan
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
    2.T.Ramanathan
    3.T.Ramakrishnan
    4.T.Ramanarayanan(died)
    5.T.Ramamoorthy
    6.Malarkodi
    7.Sriram
    8.Minor Saradha Devi
      [R8 represented by mother &
      Guardian Malarkodi]
      [RR6 to RR8 brought on record as 
      LRs of the deceased R4 vide order
      of this court, dated 14.10.2008
      made in  CMP No.1553 to 1555//08
      R6 appointed as Guardian]                        : Respondents/Defendants 
Appeal Suits filed under Section 96 of CPC against the Judgment and decree,
dated 27.01.1994 passed in Original Suit Nos.1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 by
the Sub Court, Coimbatore.
    		For Appellants            : Mr.T.M.Hariharan
    		For Respondents  	   : Mr.M.S.Krishnan
                                                          Senior Counsel
                                                          for M/s.Sarvabhvaman Associates
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    	The plaintiffs in both the suits in O.S.No. 1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 on the file of the I Assistant Subordinate Judge, Coimbatore, are the appellants.
    	2.O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was filed for specific performance of Agreement of Sale, dated 27.03.1979 and for injunction and O.S.No.248 of 1992 was filed for injunction.  Both the suits were dismissed and aggrieved by the same, the plaintiffs filed the above appeal suits. 
    	3.The case of the plaintiffs in both the suits are as follows:-
The 1st plaintiff is the wife and the 2nd plaintiff is the husband. The suit
property originally belonged to G.Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the 1st defendant
is his widow and the defendants 2 to 5 are his sons. The said G.Thirumalaisamy
Nadar let out the suit property and a larger extent to Beema Rao and
R.Sadayappa Thevar and latter, R.Sadayappa Thevar became the sole lessee of
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
    1.T.Lakshmiammal
    2.T.Ramanathan
    3.T.Ramakrishnan
    4.T.Ramanarayanan(died)
    5.T.Ramamoorthy
    6.Malarkodi
    7.Sriram
    8.Minor Saradha Devi
      [R8 represented by mother &
      Guardian Malarkodi]
      [RR6 to RR8 brought on record as 
      LRs of the deceased R4 vide order
      of this court, dated 14.10.2008
      made in  CMP No.1553 to 1555//08
      R6 appointed as Guardian]                        : Respondents/Defendants 
Appeal Suits filed under Section 96 of CPC against the Judgment and decree,
dated 27.01.1994 passed in Original Suit Nos.1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 by
the Sub Court, Coimbatore.
    		For Appellants            : Mr.T.M.Hariharan
    		For Respondents  	   : Mr.M.S.Krishnan
                                                          Senior Counsel
                                                          for M/s.Sarvabhvaman Associates
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    	The plaintiffs in both the suits in O.S.No. 1595 of 1987 and 248 of 1992 on the file of the I Assistant Subordinate Judge, Coimbatore, are the appellants.
    	2.O.S.No.1595 of 1987 was filed for specific performance of Agreement of Sale, dated 27.03.1979 and for injunction and O.S.No.248 of 1992 was filed for injunction.  Both the suits were dismissed and aggrieved by the same, the plaintiffs filed the above appeal suits. 
    	3.The case of the plaintiffs in both the suits are as follows:-
The 1st plaintiff is the wife and the 2nd plaintiff is the husband. The suit
property originally belonged to G.Thirumalaisamy Nadar and the 1st defendant
is his widow and the defendants 2 to 5 are his sons. The said G.Thirumalaisamy
Nadar let out the suit property and a larger extent to Beema Rao and
R.Sadayappa Thevar and latter, R.Sadayappa Thevar became the sole lessee of
the specific performance, when the agreement of sale was found to be not a
genuine document, there is no need to give any finding with respective to the
other aspects and therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief of
specific performance under Ex.A1.
48.In the result, the judgment and decree of the trial court are confirmed and
the appeal suits are dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous
Petitions are closed. No costs.
    Index:Yes/
    Internet:Yes/                                                                        28.03.2014
    er
    To
    The Subordinate Judge,
    Coimbatore.
    R.S.RAMANATHAN, J
    er
     common judgment made in
