Delhi High Court
Johnson & Johnson vs Lupin Limited And Anr on 27 February, 2015
Author: Manmohan Singh
    .*             IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                          Judgment pronounced on: 27th February, 2015
    +                   I.A. No.11918/2012 in CS(OS) 1931/2012
         JOHNSON & JOHNSON                                     ..... Plaintiff
                     Through             Mr. Sudhir Chandra, Sr. Adv. With
                                         Mr. Deepak Gogia & Ms. Priya
                                         Rao, Advs.
                               versus
         LUPIN LIMITED AND ANR                       ..... Defendants
                       Through Mr. Kirti Uppal, Sr. Adv. With
                               Ms. Alka Parelkar, Mr. Varun Singh,
                               Mr. Anuj Sharma & Mr. Anshumaan
                               Sahni, Advs. for D-1
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining passing off and rendition of accounts and/or damages, against the
defendants in respect of the mark LUCYNTA.
2\. By this order, I propose to decide the pending application being I.A.
No.11918/2012 filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC read with
Section 151 CPC.
3\. Brief facts of the case as per plaint are :
i) That the plaintiff, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
State of New Jersey, USA, was founded in the year 1886\. The plaintiff along
with its group companies claims to be the world leaders in pharmaceutical and
consumer products. It  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 1 of 37 is stated that
plaintiff has a highly diversified business with at least 250 subsidiaries in
57 countries around the world.
ii) Plaintiff's subsidiary Johnson & Johnson Limited was incorporated in India
in the year 1957. It is averred that the same is today amongst the leading
manufacturers, merchants, dealers and distributors of human pharmaceutical
preparations in India. With over last more than 50 years presence in India,
plaintiff has gained reputation for offering high-quality products at
competitive prices.
iii) It is averred that the plaintiff in the year 2008, adopted the mark
NUCYNTA in relation to its Tapentadol based drug, an opioid pain reliever.
Tapentadol, which is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic)
analgesics and is used to treat moderate to severe pain that is expected to
last for a short time.
iv) Plaintiff through its fully owned subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-
> Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.) applied for
> the New Drug Application (NDA) for NUCYNTA before United States Food and
> Drug Administration (FDA) which was granted on 20th November, 2008.
v) NUCYNTA was launched in USA on 22nd June, 2009 where it has been
continuously and extensively used since then. Plaintiff also obtained the FDA
approval in the August 2011 for NUCYNTA ER, an extended release formulation of
Tapentadol indicated for the management of moderate to severe chronic pain in
adults when a continuous, around-the-clock opioid analgesic is needed for an
extended period of time.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 2 of 37
vi) Also, plaintiff launched NUCYNTA CR in Canada in the year 2011 for the
treatment of moderate to moderately severe pain in adults, which is
continuously in use since then.
vii) It is averred that plaintiff has applied for and/or obtained registration
for the trademark NUCYNTA in several countries as detailed in para 3.7. of the
plaint.
viii) It is averred that the sales of NUCYNTA in USA accounted for more than $
290 million for the period 2009- 2012 while the plaintiff incurred an
expenditure of more than US $ 650 million on promotion of NUCYNTA since its
launch. The trademark NUCYNTA and product thereunder has been widely
advertised and promoted through various media including electronic and print
media over the years.
ix) The information pertaining to plaintiff's products under NUCYNTA is
available and displayed on various websites like www.nucynta.com, www.jnj.com,
www.drugs.com, www.wikipedia.com etc. The domain name "nucynta.com" was
registered on 29th October, 2008. It is averred that easy availability of
information regarding NUCYNTA has contributed immensely in enhancing the
reputation and awareness of the said trademark worldwide including India.
4\. It is averred that the plaintiff is the original, prior and honest adopter
and user of the trademark NUCYNTA, which it has been using continuously,
extensively and uninterruptedly since the year 2009 in USA. The drug bearing
the trademark NUCYNTA is well known and has been discussed in several
international conferences and  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 3 of 37 seminars.
Medical literature relating to plaintiff's products including NUCYNTA is
freely available in India. The plaintiff has acquired worldwide reputation and
enjoys trans-border reputation and/or spill over reputation in India.
When the suit was filed, the plaintiff had intended to launch its drug bearing
NUCYNTA in India and had also filed a trademark application under No. 2199474
in class 5 for Human Pharmaceutical Preparations which was pending at the time
of filing of the suit.
5\. It is the case of the plaintiff that sometime in the month of March 2012,
plaintiff's attention was drawn to defendant No.1's drug for the treatment of
oncology related ailment containing Tapentadol being sold under the mark
LUCYNTA. Defendant No.1 is the manufacturer and supplier of the pharmaceutical
product bearing the mark LUCYNTA. Defendant No.2 is the distributor of the
defendant No.1's product in Delhi. It was revealed on further enquiry that
defendant No. 1 had applied for registration of the mark LUCYNTA under No.
2011950 dated 20th August, 2010 in class 5 for 'medical and pharmaceutical
preparation and substances' on proposed to be used basis. During the course of
plaintiff's investigation, defendant No.1's application for the mark LUCYNTA
proceeded to registration.
6\. It is averred by the plaintiff that by virtue of its long and extensive
use, publicity and promotion, the mark NUCYNTA is associated and identified by
the members of the trade and public exclusively with the plaintiff and/or its
group companies. The adoption and use by defendant No.1 of the mark LUCYNTA
which is virtually identical to and/or deceptively similar to plaintiff's mark
NUCYNTA both structurally and phonetically and that too for an identical
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 4 of 37 pharmaceutical preparation, is an inherent
dishonest adoption and calculated misrepresentation to the consuming public
that their business and products under the mark LUCYNTA owe their origin to or
are licensed by the plaintiff.
This misrepresentation by the defendant is calculated to take an unfair
advantage and is causing and/or likely to cause damage to the plaintiff's
exclusive propriety rights and goodwill in the mark NUCYNTA. The defendant is
trying to usurp the goodwill and reputation attached to the plaintiff. Also,
the possibility of confusion of one medical product for another by the
consumer is much higher in the pharmaceutical segment. It is averred that
unless the defendants are restrained, grave loss and injury will continue to
cause not only to the plaintiff's valuable intellectual property rights but
also to public at large. MAIN DEFENCE IN THE WRITTEN STATEMENT
7\. On the other hand, defendant No.1 in his written statement has stated that
the present suit is not maintainable. On plaintiff's own admission, defendant
No. 1 is the registered proprietor of the mark LUCYNTA. It is contended that
there was no opposition in respect of the said mark which was duly examined by
the examiner of trademarks and duly advertised in the Trade Marks Journal. It
is contended that defendant No.1 has obtained necessary statutory permissions
including permission under Drugs and Cosmetic Act. It is stated that defendant
No.1 has been manufacturing and marketing its product under the mark LUCYNTA
since September/October, 2011 and launched its product in October, 2011 and
the same has acquired enormous reputation and goodwill.
7.1 It is contended that defendant No.1 is a highly reputed and ranks amongst
the top five in the Indian Pharmaceutical companies whose  CS(OS) No.1931/2012
Page 5 of 37 products are well accepted by the medical fraternity, members of
the public and traders. While on the other hand, plaintiff's product has not
been manufactured, sold or marketed under the mark NUCYNTA in India.
7.2 Defendant No.1 is the registered proprietor of the mark LUCYNTA which has
been adopted originally, independently, honestly and bonafidely in or around
August, 2010. The mark LUCYNTA is solely associated with defendant No.1. In
fact now the plaintiff wants to enter the Indian market with the mark NUCYNTA
in respect of pharmaceutical goods, which is likely to cause confusion and
deception in the market. It is contended that the plaintiff intends to trade
on the goodwill and reputation of defendant No.1 and intends to pass off its
goods as that of defendant No.1. Aggrieved of the same the defendant No.1 has
filed a suit against the plaintiff on 18th July, 2012 bearing Lodging
No.1842/2012 before the Bombay High Court.
7.3 It is contended that defendant No.1 has been using the mark LUCYNTA
openly, continuously and extensively since October, 2011. The defendant No.1
has expended a substantial sum of money in its launch in popularizing its
products bearing mark LUCYNTA. Defendant No.1 has promoted and advertised its
products under the mark LUCYNTA which has resulted into the mark LUCYNTA being
popular in the Indian pharmaceutical market and a well known trademark.
7.4 While the defendant No.1 had applied for registration of the mark LUCYNTA
on 20th August, 2010 vide application number 2011950 which was advertised in
the Trade Marks Journal on 8th August, 2011, the plaintiff had applied for
registration of the mark NUCYNTA on 2nd September, 2011 vide application
number 2199474. It is contended  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 6 of 37 that
plaintiff on the date of making the application for registration apparently
had notice and ought to have been aware of defendant No.1's mark LUCYNTA.
Despite of such knowledge, plaintiff neither took any action against defendant
No.1 nor opposed the registration of the mark LUCYNTA. Therefore, the
plaintiff has acquiesced the use of the mark LUCYNTA by defendant No.1,
therefore, estopped from challenging the use of the same by defendant No.1.
8\. Defendant No.2 has also filed a written statement wherein it is contended
that defendant No.2 has unnecessarily been impleaded as a party in the matter.
Plaintiff has no right or cause of action against defendant No.2. The suit is
bad for misjoinder of parties. Defendant No.2 has also contended that
defendant No.1 is the registered proprietor of the mark LUCYNTA and the
plaintiff has no right to question defendant No.2's distribution and selling
of the product bearing the mark LUCYNTA. Defendant No.2 has denied and
disputed the other averments made in the suit.
REPLICATION TO THE WRITTEN STATEMENT
9\. In the replication filed by the plaintiff, the plaintiff has averred that
defendant No.1 has failed to give any plausible or justifiable reason for
adoption of the mark LUCYNTA which is virtually identical to plaintiff's
reputed mark NUCYNTA, which is a coined word/mark. It is averred that the
written statement filed by defendant No.1 does not disclose as to how
defendant No.1 came to adopt the mark LUCYNTA and that too in relation to
identical pharmaceutical preparation. While all the contentions of the
defendant No.1 are disputed, it is stated that this suit filed by the
plaintiff came up for hearing before the Court on 6 th July, 2012 when the
notice was issued to the defendants. On 16th July,  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 7
of 37 2012, defendant No.1 entered appearance before the Court through counsel
and sought time to file reply to plaintiff's interim application. The matter
was accordingly adjourned to 12th September, 2012 for hearing arguments on
plaintiff's interim application. In the meanwhile on 18th July, 2012,
plaintiff received an email from defendant No.1's counsel informing the
plaintiff about the factum of the Bombay suit. It is averred by the plaintiff
that defendant No.1 took time on 16th July, 2012 in the garb of filing a reply
but in fact filed the Bombay suit only as an afterthought merely to harass the
plaintiff and to prevent it from using the mark NUCYNTA which is a coined mark
and in existence since 2008\. However no interim injunction was passed against
the plaintiff in the Bombay suit. The plaintiff has also denied that any
statement is made by the counsel in the Bombay suit that the plaintiff would
not launch its products on commercial scale in India and denied the statement
of defendants made in the affidavit.
In the replication, plaintiff has denied the contentions raised by defendant
No.2 and stated that defendant No.2 is admittedly the distributor of defendant
No.1 who is engaged in distribution of the pharmaceutical products of
defendant No.1 including the product under the mark LUCYNTA. Defendant No.2
along with defendant No.1 has derived and continuous to derive unjust monetary
gains through sale of the product under the mark LUCYNTA. The plaintiff
therefore has a valid and subsisting cause of action against defendant No.2.
10\. In order to establish prior adoption and user, the plaintiff has filed
following document :
i) The plaintiff, through its fully owned subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Janssen  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 8 of 37
Pharmaceuticals Inc), filed an application on 22nd January, 2008 before the
Unites States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) seeking approval for
manufacturing NUCYNTA, an opioid pain reliever based on "Tapentadol".
ii) The plaintiff on 29th October, 2008 registered the domain name
<nucynta.com>.
iii) FDA granted approval on 29th October, 2008 for NUCYNTA.
iv) The plaintiff filed a trademark application on 28th November, 2008 seeking
registration of the mark NUCYNTA in USA.
v) The mark NUCYNTA is registered in the name of the plaintiff in around 19
countries across the world.
vi) The plaintiff launched NUCYNTA in USA on 22nd June, 2009 through its
subsidiary Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.
11\. The plaintiff has also filed certain documents about the awareness of the
mark NUCYNTA in India by way medical practitioners, research scholars etc. and
the drug sold under the said mark in other countries at the world. The details
of the said documents are given as under:-
i) Article titled "Recent Advances in Postoperative Pain Management" published
in Yale Journal of Biology and Medicine.
ii) Article titled "Tapentadol - A Novel Analgesic" published in Journal of
Anaesthesiology Clinical Pharmacology.
iii) Article titled "Simple, rapid and cost effective method for routine
analysis of Tapentadol Hydrochloride: A novel analgesic drug in bulk and
pharmaceutical dosage form by RP-HPLC" published in Pharma Science Monitor.
iv) Article titled "Pharmacological aspects of Tapentadol"
published in International Journal of Pharma & Bio Sciences.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 9 of 37
v) Article titled "Emerging concepts in post-operative pain management"
published in Indian Journal of Anaesthesia.
12\. The pharmaceutical industry in India is also aware of the plaintiff's
mark NUCYNTA as per the case of the plaintiff and documents produced i.e.
a) Print out taken from the website www.cadilapharma.com.
b) Print out of an article dated 17th May, 2011 taken from the website
www.thehindubusinessline.com.
13\. The print & electronic media in India have written about the products
sold under the plaintiff's mark and/or product which is evident from the
following documents filed by the plaintiff :
i) Print out of an article dated 4th October, 2010 taken from the website
www.zeenews.com.
ii) Print out of an article dated 17th May, 2011 taken from the website
www.thehindubusinessline.com.
iii) Print out of an article dated 30th August, 2011 taken from the website
www.pharmabiz.com.
iv) Print out of an article dated 26th August, 2011 taken from the website
www.in.news.yahoo.com.
v) Print outs taken from the website www.medindia.net.
14\. The defendant in its written statement has admitted that the mark in
question is used since September/October, 2011. Earlier to this date, the
defendants filed its application for Registration on 20th August, 2010 as
proposed to be used vide application No. 2011950.
On the other hand, the plaintiffs' case is that the mark NUCYNTA was adopted
in overseas countries in January, 2008 and was first time used in U.S.A in
June 2009. Thus, it cannot be denied by the  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 10 of 37
defendants that the plaintiff is prior adopter and user of the mark in
overseas countries definitely prior to the defendant.
15\. The defendant No.1 has not denied the fact that it has claimed and made
the declaration in public that defendant No. 1 is selling its pharmaceutical
preparation under the mark LUCYNTA and the said drug has been approved by US
FDA which in fact is untrue as no such approval was granted to the said
defendant.
The defendant No.1, who is in the same line of business who claims to be
amongst top five pharmaceutical companies in India having a global presence
including in USA, where the plaintiff's mark was already established by the
plaintiff's trademark NUCYNTA. On the date of adoption and user of the
defendant's mark, the defendants themselves have filed the following documents
which would show the presence of defendant No. 1 in U.S.A.
a) Print out from the website of US based subsidiary (Lupin Pharmaceuticals
Inc.) of defendant No. 1, www.lupinpharmaceuticals.com.
b) Print outs from the official website of U.S Food and Drug Administration
evidencing the drug approvals obtained by defendant No. 1 in USA.
c) Print outs from the official website of U.S Food and Drug Administration
evidencing the drug approvals obtained by defendant No. 1's US based
subsidiary Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc.
d) Relevant extracts from the publication "Approved drug products with
therapeutic equivalence evaluations" 32nd Edition, published by US Department
of Health and Human  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 11 of 37 Services evidencing
active presence of defendant No. 1 in USA.
e) Print outs taken from the official website of defendant No.1
www.lupinworld.com and that of its US based subsidiary
www.lupinpharmaceuticals.com.
16\. Both the parties have made their respective submissions in the pending
application being I.A. No.11918/2012 under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC. This
matter is at the stage of evidence.
17\. Before dealing with the rival submissions of both the parties, it is
necessary to mention here few admitted positions in the matter, in view of
pleadings of the parties. The details of the same are given as under:
i) The defendant has admitted in its suit that both rival matters NUCYNTA and
LUCYNTA are similar.
ii) Both parties are using their trademark in relation to identical goods i.e.
the drug in question for identical preparation.
iii) In case both trademarks are used in India, it would create confusion and
deception in the market as per admitted case of the defendants.
iv) That the plaintiff is the prior adopter and user of the trademark NUCYNTA
in overseas countries.
v) The plaintiff is the first party who has obtained the drug licenses in
overseas countries prior to the defendant.
vi) The defendant has another trademark TRANSDOL and which is being used in
relation to the same drug, for the identical product.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 12 of 37
vii) In an action of passing off, the interim order can be passed against the
registered proprietor.
viii) The validity of the registered trademark can be challenged in the civil
suit as held by the Full Bench of Mumbai High Court in the suit filed by the
defendant against the plaintiff herein.
ix) The defendant did not get the interim order against the plaintiff on the
basis of registered trademark obtained by the defendant.
x) Patients and customers of both rival drug are same as it is meant for same
salt and treatment.
xi) That both parties have filed their suit against each other in order to
assert independent rights claiming ownership of the trademarks on the basis of
prior user.
18\. In the suit for infringement of its trademark 'LUCYNTA' was filed by the
defendant No.1 on 26th July, 2012 in the Bombay High Court bearing Suit
(L.D.G.) No.1842/2012 against the plaintiff herein in which it was contended
that the plaintiff would be committing an act of infringement by using the
mark 'NUCYNTA'. Defendant therein (the plaintiff herein) raised a plea of
invalidity of plaintiff's registration to resist the interlocutory reliefs
pressed by plaintiff therein.
In the said suit before High Court of Bombay, the Full Bench on 23rd December,
2014 gave detailed judgment, inter alia, by coming to the conclusion that a
challenge to the validity of the registration of the trademark can finally
succeed only in rectification proceedings before the Intellectual Property
Appellate Board. However, there is no express or implied bar taking away the
jurisdiction and power of the Civil Court to consider the challenge to the
validity of the trademark at  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 13 of 37 the
interlocutory stage by way of prima facie finding, though a heavy burden lies
on the party to challenge the validity of the trademark in order to rebut the
strong presumption in favour of the plaintiff on the basis of registration at
the interlocutory stage and in case the Court finds that registration is ex-
facie illegal and fraudulent the Court may decline to grant relief in favour
of the party who is having the registered trademark.
19\. It appears from the pleading of the defendants that their main case is
that the plaintiff is not using mark NUCYNTA in India no reputation and/or
goodwill is associated with plaintiff herein in respect of the mark NUCYNTA in
India. Secondly, defendant No.1 is selling the products under the trademark
LUCYNTA in India under its name since October, 2011. Further "Goodwill" is
territorial in nature. Mere knowledge of mark cannot be equated with goodwill.
There is something more that is required to culminate the knowledge of the
mark into reputation, goodwill within the territory, efforts taken by the
owner of the mark to popularize, market the products in the territory so as to
create association in the minds of members of trade and public and thereby
acquire reputation and goodwill. It is an admitted position that plaintiffs
are not using the trademark NUCYNTA in India. Large number of decisions are
referred by Mr. Kirti Uppal, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
defendants.
20\. It is alleged by Mr. Uppal, learned Senior counsel that the defendant
No.1, in compliance of order dated 26th July, 2013, has filed an affidavit on
7th August, 2013 stating that the plaintiff herein and defendants in the suit
(Lodging) No.1842/2012 on 26th July, 2012 made a statement that they would not
launch its product in India during the pendency of the proceedings. The said
fact has been denied by  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 14 of 37 the plaintiff,
counsel says that no such statement was made. Mr. Uppal argues that even
otherwise, the plaintiff in its arguments on 10th October, 2013 before this
Court had submitted that they were yet to launch its product in India. The
suit was filed on 4th July, 2012 and plaintiff till date has failed to show
that it has initiated any steps to launch its product in India. There is no
change in circumstances since the filing of the present suit.
In the affidavit filed on 28th January, 2013, in compliance of order dated 8th
January, 2013, defendant No.1 further affirmed the sales and promotional
figures of its trademark. It was stated therein that mark "TRANSDOL" was
adopted subsequent to the adoption of mark "LUCYNTA" and it is common business
practise to use two or more marks for the same molecule as marks are coined as
per the departmental requirements of defendant No.1.
21\. Learned Senior counsel has referred number of decisions in support of his
submission that unless the mark is used in India, no injunction order can be
passed against the defendants. As regard the documents filed by the plaintiff,
it is argued that the publications, websites it is not established whether
substantial segments of members of trade and public associate the product
bearing the mark NUCYNTA with plaintiff in India.
22\. It is argued by Mr. Uppal, learned Senior counsel that plaintiff is
neither the earlier registered proprietor nor the earlier user of the mark
NUCYNTA in India. Plaintiff has not undertaken any promotional activity
whatsoever to launch its product under the mark NUCYNTA in India whereas
defendant No.1 is the registered proprietor and is earlier user of the mark
LUCYNTA in India. Therefore, balance of  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 15 of 37
convenience lies in favour of the defendant No.1 and against the plaintiff.
23\. Let me now discuss the rival arguments of both the parties issuewise.
Similarity of two trademarks, NUCYNTA and LUCYNTA
24\. The defendant No.1 in its suit filed in Bombay High Court in para 29 has
admitted that two marks are similar. Relevant extracts are reproduced as under
:
> "29. The Defendant is also set to infringe the Plaintiff's said registered
> trade mark. The Plaintiff states that the mark "NUCYNTA" of the Defendant is
> almost identical to the registered mark "LUCYNTA" and "NUCYNTA"."
Identical Goods
25\. In para 22 and 29 of the suit filed before Bombay High Court, the
defendant has admitted that the mark NUCYNTA of the plaintiff is almost
identical to the registered mark LUCYNTA and NUCYNTA is being used by the
plaintiff in respect of identical goods. Confusion and Deception
26\. In para 29 of the suit filed before Bombay High Court, the defendant
stated that LUCYNTA is deceptively similar to NUCYNTA and the plaintiff is
proposing to use the same in respect of identical goods and therefore their
exists likelihood of confusion and/or likelihood of association with that of
the plaintiff.
27\. In view of admissions made by the defendants in their pleading, no
further discussions are necessary with regard to similarity of marks,
identical medicines, confusion and deception.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 16 of 37
Prior user
28\. It is settled law that any action for passing off in order to succeed in
getting an interim injunction, the plaintiff has to establish user of the mark
prior in point of time than the user of the defendant. Reliance is placed on
Century Traders vs Roshan Lal Duggar Co., AIR 1978 Delhi 250 (DB) (para 14).
Goodwill and Trans-Border Reputation
29\. One of the essential ingredients is goodwill. The classic case of passing
off as it existed since its genesis always insist the existence of goodwill of
a merchant in order to give him a locally enforceable right to sue for passing
off.
30\. This has been explained by Kerly's in his book called Law of Trade Marks
and Trade Names (Fourteenth Edition) (South Asian Edition 2007), wherein the
concept of goodwill has always been categorized as local in character and the
learned author observed thus:-
> "Since an essential ingredient of passing off is damage (or prospective
> damage) to goodwill, he (the Plaintiff) must show that he had, at the date
> when the Defendants started up, in this country not merely a reputation but
> a goodwill capable of being damaged. Goodwill, however, is local; it is
> situated where the business is. Thus a foreign claimant may have a
> reputation in this country-from travellers or periodicals of international
> circulation or, increasingly, from exposure on the Internet-yet still fail
> in an action for passing off because he has here no business and so no
> goodwill. Such cases have been not uncommon in recent years, and have caused
> considerable difficulty. Where there is a substantial reputation here, our
> courts will often accept minimal evidence that a business exists here, but
> there has to be some".
31\. This concept of goodwill and the insistence of localized business has
been traditional concept of passing off which sometimes is called  CS(OS)
No.1931/2012 Page 17 of 37 as classic case of passing off. The concept of
passing off has undergone changes due to advent of technology and
modernization. The courts entertaining the case of passing off can discount
the localized existence of goodwill and the business in the territory specific
if the substantial nature of reputation has been proved which has some kind of
nexus in the territory where the protection is sought and the said concept in
the modern language is called trans-border reputation whereas the goodwill is
always local in character, the concept of reputation is dynamic and is all
encompassing.
32\. The reputation of a person can transcend boundaries by virtue of its
advertisement in the newspapers, media circulation, expatriate reputation due
to cultural akinness and all other relevant factors which connect one
country's business with that of another. This has been aptly explained by the
Division Bench of this Court in the case of N.R.Dongre v. Whirlpool
Corporation, AIR 1995 Delhi 300 wherein the concept of trans-border reputation
was approved in the following words:-
> "(25) Thus a product and its trade name transcend the physical boundaries of
> a geographical region and acquire a trans border or overseas or
> extraterritorial reputation not only though import of goods but also by its
> advertisement. The knowledge and the awareness of the goods of a foreign
> trade and its trade mark can be available at a place where goods are not
> being marketed and consequently not being used. The manner in which or the
> source from which the knowledge has been acquired is immaterial".
33\. The said judgment of Whirlpool [supra] has been approved by the Supreme
Court in the case of N.R. Dongre and Ors. vs Whirlpool Corpn. and Anr., 1996
(2) Arb.LR 488 (SC) wherein the law laid down  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 18 of
37 by the Division Bench of this Court was again reiterated. This exposition
of 1996 in the case of Whirlpool [supra] has been further revisited by the
Courts in India more importantly in the case of Allergan Inc. v. Milment Oftho
Industries, 1999 PTC (19) (DB) 160 wherein it has carefully analyzed the
interplay between the goodwill and reputation in a case of passing off action
and has laid down that the Courts in India have followed the third approach
which is a middle path wherein strict insistence of localized business is not
necessary. However, reputation which is sought to be protected has to be
substantial one having global character. The observation made by Hon'ble Judge
is as under:-
> "13. Reputation is the connection that the public makes between a particular
> product or service and a particular source which may or may not be known.
> Some Courts have held that reputation which is built up on the basis of
> trade within the country is entitled to protection from passing off. Others
> Court have made some concession to the communication explosion and held that
> if the plaintiff has a reputation in another country, his right to the mark
> will be protected if it is coupled with some actual or proposed business
> activity within the country (See Alain Beniardin et Cie v. Pavilion
> Properties, (1967) RFC 581; Amway Corporation. v. Eurway Int. Ltd. (1974)
> RFC 82."Still other Courts have held that with the increase in international
> commerce, mass media communications and the frequency of the foreign travel,
> political and geographic boundaries do not stem the exchange of ideas and
> instant information. Local business is not an essential ingredient of a
> passing off action. However, the reputation must be well established or a
> known one See : Panhard et Levassor v. Panhard Motor Co. Ltd., (1901) 18 RPC
> 405; Sheraton Corpn. v. Sheraton Motels, (1964) RPC 202; Orkin Exterminating
> Co. Tnd. v. Pest Co. of Canada (1985) 5 Canadian Patent Reporter 433;
> Vitamins L. D.'s Application for Trademark, 1956 (1) RPC 1. The decisions
> which reflect the first and second view have so held  CS(OS) No.1931/2012
> Page 19 of 37 for reasons which are partly historic, partly geographic and
> partly because reputation was equated with goodwill. Goodwill has been
> defined as the benefit derived from reputation. It is not the reputation
> required to found a passing off action. The law of passing off is not
> trammelled by definitions of goodwill developed in the field of revenue law
> [per Hockhart J., Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Aust) P. Ltd., 1993 (23) IPR
> 193 231]. It is an asset of a business assessable in terms of money and
> transferable (See IRC v. Muller, (1901) AC 217, Trego v. Hunt (1896) AC 7;
> ITC v. B.C. Srinivas Shetty. In my opinion reputation framing the basis of a
> passing off action need not be so localised. Whatever the compulsion for the
> Courts taking the first or second view in other countries, as far as this
> country is concerned, Courts in India prescribe to the third view and have
> held that a plaintiff with a reputation which is established internationally
> can sue to protect it in this country even if it does not have any business
> activity here. In other words reputation of a product may precede its
> introduction and may exist without trade in such product in the country. See
> N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation, (DB); J. N. Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v.
> Rose & Thistle, 1994 PTC 83 (DB); Calvin Klein Inc. v. International
> Apparels, (1995) FSR 515 : 1995 IPLR 83; Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods
> (Supra) at p. 133."
34\. The said judgment passed in the case of Milment (supra) passed by
Division Bench of Kolkata High Court has been further approved by Supreme
Court of India in the case of Milment Oftho Industries v. Allergan Inc.,
(2004) 12 SCC 624 wherein the Supreme Court has laid down that :
> "It must also be remembered that nowadays goods are widely advertised in
> newspapers, periodicals, magazines and other media which is available in the
> country. This results in a product acquiring a worldwide reputation. Thus,
> if a mark in respect of a drug is associated with the Respondents worldwide
> it would lead to an anomalous situation if an identical mark in respect of a
> similar drug is allowed to be sold in India. However one note of caution
> must be  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 20 of 37 expressed. Multinational
> corporations, who have no intention of coming to India or introducing their
> product in India should not be allowed to throttle an Indian Company by not
> permitting it to sell a product in India, if the Indian Company has
> genuinely adopted the mark and developed the product and is first in the
> market. Thus the ultimate test should be who is first in the market".
> It was further observed on the facts of the case as under:
> "(9) In the present case, the marks are the same. They are in respect of
> pharmaceutical products. The mere fact that the Respondents have not been
> using the mark in India would be irrelevant if they were first in the world
> market. The Division bench had relied upon material which prima facie shows
> that the Respondents product was advertised before the Appellants entered
> the field. On the basis of that material the Division Bench has concluded
> that the Respondents were first to adopt the mark. If that be so then no
> fault can be found with the conclusion drawn by the Division Bench."
35\. The position of law uptill Milment (supra) has been followed that the
Courts in India by placing reliance on the said decision have proceeded to
grant interim orders to the multi-nationals having their brands which are of
global character and prevented the misuse of the said brands by protecting
trans-border reputation subject to fulfilling of essential characteristics
necessary to prove trans-border reputation. The decision in the case of
Milment (supra) was also rendered in the year 2004 when the impact of
internet, e-commerce, social media was yet to be seen and realized.
36\. In the case of Cadbury U.K. Limited & Anr vs. Lotte India Corporation
Ltd., reported in 2014 (57) PTC 422 (Delhi) wherein the decision of law
relating to trans-border reputation has been further strengthened and has been
taken to another level wherein the court has not merely relied upon the
decision of Milment (supra) and  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 21 of 37 Whirlpool
(supra) but has also extended the principle of trans-border reputation by
observing that the existence of a merchant on web pages which are of foreign
origin and social media are sufficient to show the trans-border nature of
reputation without having any activity in India at the relevant time. Though
it is very broad extension of the concept of trans-border reputation, but it
is a question of fact in each case as to how the internet documents are
sufficient to show the global character of the trademark and the reputation
attached to the same. The impact of the said decision which has been given
very recently is yet to be seen and analyzed by the other Courts in India in
the upcoming times. Effectively, the concept of trans-border reputation and
goodwill is interesting in academic sense. However, due to advent of internet
media, international travel, the insistence on the localized business as well
as trans-border reputation is nowadays more or less dealt with in a kind of
presumptive approach rather than by actual establishment of the same. As the
international businesses grow and proximity between the markets would
increase, over the time this concept will become weaker and on one good day
world will be treated as one market and injunction order can be passed against
the registered proprietor on the basis of unregistered trademark in an action
of passing off as held in the case of Whirlpool (supra).
In Cadbury UK Limited (supra) in para 33 of the said decision, the following
principles have been sumarized:
> "Legal principles summarized
> 33\. The position, therefore, that emerges from the above case law is :
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 22 of 37
(a) The concept of goodwill is derived from reputation but the reputation need
not be necessarily a local reputation. It can even be a spill over in India of
the international reputation enjoyed by the Plaintiff's mark.
(b) It is not necessary for the Plaintiff to actually show the presence of or
sale of its products in India as long as it is able to establish that it
enjoys a spill over reputation in India. In other words, the reputation of a
product may precede its introduction and may exist without trade of the
product in the country.
(c) The proof of reputation can be in the form of advertisements in the media
and general awareness which in the modern day context would include
advertisements or display on the internet and social media. The reputation
must be shown to exist at the time the Defendant enters the market.
(d) A mechanical incantation of reputation is not sufficient. There must be
some material that the product is known to the Indian consumer. The material
will be scrutinised by the Court from many relevant perspectives including the
class of consumers likely to buy the product (See the decision dated 15th
March 2010 of this Court in CS (OS) 626 of 2006 Roca Sanitario S.A. v. Naresh
Kumar Gupta).
(e) Although in the internationalisation of trade there could be a possible
confusion with the domestic trader bona fide adopting business names similar
to names legitimately used elsewhere, a dishonest adoption or use of a mark
similar to one having a reputation in the market, with a view to causing
deception or confusion in the mind of the average consumer, may invite an
injunction. including the class of consumers likely to buy the product (See
the decision dated 15th March 2010 of this Court in CS (OS) 626 of 2006 Roca
Sanitario S.A. v. Naresh Kumar Gupta).
(f) Although in the internationalisation of trade there could be a possible
confusion with the domestic trader bona fide adopting business names similar
to names legitimately used elsewhere, a dishonest adoption or use of a mark
similar to one having a reputation in the market, with a view to causing
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 23 of 37 deception or confusion in the mind of the
average consumer, may invite an injunction."
37\. Even the test of confusion and deception in order to prove the case of
passing off has been very well discussed in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel vs.
Chetanbhat Shah and Another, reported in (2002) 3 SCC 65, wherein the Supreme
Court while considering a plea of passing off and grant of ad interim
injunction held in no uncertain terms that a person may sell his goods or
deliver his services under a trading name or style which, with the passage of
time, may acquire a reputation or goodwill and may become a property to be
protected by the Courts. It was held that a competitor initiating sale of
goods or services in the same name or by imitating that name causes injury to
the business of one who has the property in that name. It was held that
honesty and fair play are and ought to be the basic policy in the world of
business and when a person adopts or intends to adopt a name which already
belongs to someone else, it results in confusion, has the propensity of
diverting the customers and clients of someone else to himself and thereby
resulting in injury.
It was also held in Laxmikant V. Patel (supra) that the principles which apply
to trademark are applicable to trade name also. Para 10 of the aforesaid
judgment reads as under:-
> "The law does not permit any one to carry on his business in such a way as
> would persuade the customers or clients in believing that his goods or
> services belonging to someone else are his or are associated therewith. It
> does not matter whether the latter person does so fraudulently or otherwise.
> The reasons are two. Firstly, honesty and fair play are, and ought to be,
> the basic policies in the world of business. Secondly, when a person adopts
> or intends to adopt a name in connection with his business or services which
> already belongs to someone else it results in confusion and has  CS(OS)
> No.1931/2012 Page 24 of 37 propensity of diverting the customers and clients
> of someone else to himself and thereby resulting in injury." In this case,
> the Supreme Court further observed that: "Where there is probability of
> confusion in business, an injunction will be granted even though the
> defendants adopted the name innocently."
38\. There is no valid argument raised by defendant No.1 that the plaintiff's
mark NUCYNTA does not enjoy any trans-border reputation in India. The same has
no substance in view of documentary evidence placed by the plaintiff as in the
present case, the plaintiff has filed cogent documentary evidence establishing
that medical practitioners, research scholars and those related to the field
of medicine in general in India and also the Indian media (both
print/electronic) were well aware of the plaintiff's mark NUCYNTA at the time
when defendant No.1 allegedly launched its pharmaceutical preparation bearing
the mark LUCYNTA in India in October, 2011.
39\. That apart, the plaintiff has a dedicated website www.nucynta.com that
contains information pertaining to the pharmaceutical preparation sold under
the plaintiff's mark NUCYNTA. The plaintiff registered the domain name
<nucynta.com> on 29th October, 2008. In addition to the above, the information
pertaining to plaintiff's mark NUCYNTA and/or the pharmaceutical preparation
sold thereunder is also freely available on several other websites on the
Internet such as www.wikipedia.com.
40\. The defendant No.1 in the present case has not assigned any reason or
jurisdiction in reply and/or written statement as to how the said defendant
hit upon the mark LUCYNTA in relation to an identical pharmaceutical
preparation, which has no connection either from the basic molecule named
"Tapentadol" or formed part at the name of disease. In the present case,
admittedly the plaintiff's application for  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 25 of 37
rectification of the defendants' registered trademark is pending. It is
settled law that if a party at the time of making the application for
registration of the trademark had knowledge that the mark applied for had
already been used by another trader in relation to the said goods then the
claim of the proprietorship made by him is false and frivolous. The heavy
burden lies on the said party who had applied for registration of the same
trademark. Indian trader has to justify before the Court in order to claim the
proprietorship of the mark if the mark is a foreign mark.
It is also settled law that under those circumstances if the foreign
proprietors have an intention to use the mark in India then the conduct of the
party, who has applied for registration of the same foreign mark in his name,
is questionable. Under Section 11 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 there is
prohibition of registration of the similar trademark which is already well-
known and if the later mark would cause unfair advantage or be detrimental to
the distinctive character or repute of the earlier trademark.
In view of above said reasons, it appears to the Court that the plaintiff in
the matter has been able to make a prima facie good and strong case of
invalidity of defendant No.1's trademark. Even otherwise, if a defendant in a
suit of infringement of rights fails to give valid reason for adopting the
similar mark, the presumption would have to be drawn in favour of the party
whose trademark has been appreciated by another party. The entire scheme of
the Act is that only rightful and honest party is entitled to get the relief
from the Court.
41\. The plaintiff has already filed a rectification petition before the
Registrar of Trademarks seeking cancellation of the registration of the
defendant No. 1s' mark LUCYNTA in India. It is anyways well settled  CS(OS)
No.1931/2012 Page 26 of 37 that registration of a mark is only a prima facie
evidence of its validity and the presumption of prima facie validity of
registration is a rebuttable. Reliance is placed on Whirlpool (supra) (para
31). Furthermore, it is open for this Court to look in to the validity of the
defendant No. 1's registration for the purposes of deciding the plaintiff's
interlocutory application as held by the Full Bench of Bombay High Court in
the present case between the parties. Be that as it may, it is a settled law
in India that an injunction can be issued even against a registered proprietor
of a trademark.
42\. In the case of Cadila Health Care Ltd. vs. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.,
(2001) 5 SCC 73 in para 28, 30 and 32, Supreme Court has referred few
judgments while issuing the guidelines in order to consider the case of
passing off on the basis of unregistered trademark :
> "28. Here, it will be useful to refer to the decision of Morgenstern
> Chemical Company's case (supra) where it has been held as under:
> "[5] In the field of medical products, it is particularly important that
> great care be taken to prevent any possibility of confusion in the use of
> trade marks. The test as to whether or not there is confusing similarity in
> these products even if prescribed and dispensed only by professionally
> trained individuals does not hinge on whether or not the medicines are
> designed for similar ailments. The rule enunciated by Judge Helen in Cole
> Chemical Co. Vs. Cole Laboratories D.C. Mo. 1954, 118F. Supp. 612, 616, 617,
> 101, USPQ 44, 47, 48, is applicable here:
> "Plaintiff and defendant are engaged in the sale of medical preparations.
> They are for ultimate human consumption or use.***They are particularly all
> for ailments of the human body. Confusion in such  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page
> 27 of 37 products can have serious consequences for the patient. Confusion
> in medicines must be avoided. ***** "Prevention of confusion and mistakes in
> medicines is too vital to be trifled with"
> The observations made by Assistant Commissioner Leeds of the Patent Office
> in R.J. Strasenburgh Co. Vs. Kenwood Laboratories INC. 1955, 106 USPQ 379,
> 380 are particularly apt, that "Physicians are not immune from confusion or
> mistake. Further more it is common knowledge that many prescriptions are
> telephoned to the pharmacists and others are handwritten, and frequently
> handwriting is not unmistakably legible. These facts enhance the chances of
> confusion or mistake by the pharmacists in filling the prescription if the
> marks appear too much alike when handwritten or sound too much alike when
> pronounced."
30\. In the case of Syntex Laboratories Inc. Vs. Norwich Pharmacol Co.
reported in 169 USPQ 1(2nd Cr. 1971), it is observed as under:
> "Stricter standard in order to prevent likelihood of confusion is desirable
> where involved trade marks are applied to different prescription
> pharmaceutical products and where confusion result in physical harm to
> consuming public."
32\. .......This view finds support from McCarthy on Trade Marks, 3rd Edition,
para 23.12 of which reads as under:
> "The tests of confusing similarity are modified when the goods involved are
> medicinal products. Confusion of source or product between medicinal
> products may produce physically harmful results to purchasers and greater
> protection is required than in the ordinary case. If the goods involved are
> medicinal products each with CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 28 of 37 different
> effects and designed for even subtly different uses, confusion among the
> products caused by similar marks could have disastrous effects. For these
> reasons, it is proper to require a lesser quantum of proof of confusing
> similarity for drugs and medicinal preparations. The same standard has been
> applied to medical products such as surgical sutures and clavicle splints."
43\. In view of settled law on the aspect of pharmaceutical preparatory drug,
none of the decisions cited by the defendants are applicable to the facts and
circumstances of the present case. The defendants has admitted in their
pleading in the present case and in the suit filed by them that the two marks
are deceptively similar and are being used for identical goods. Salt is also
same and if both are used in the market, there would be confusion and
deception. Thus, all the decisions referred are distinguishable in view of
materially different facts and circumstances.
44\. Out of compilations containing many decisions, Mr. Uppal has heavily
relied upon the following decisions in support of his arguments on the issue
of non-user and goodwill and reputation :
a) In Roca Sanitario S.A. vs. Naresh Kumar Gupta and Anr., 2010 (7) RAJ 634
(Del) held that trans-border reputation can be taken into consideration, but
not without there being any evidence of use in this very country.
b) In Chorion Rights Ltd. vs. M/s Ishan Apparel & Ors., 2010 (43) PTC 616
(Del.) in absence of the plaintiff to show any evidence of advertisement,
sales in India held that :
> "18....The plaintiff has not adduced any evidence to show prior user in
> India, it is even not the prior registered owner of the said trademark in
> India. A claim of dilution cannot sustain against a registered owner of the
> CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 29 of 37 trademark, as is clear from Section 29(4).
> In this case the defendant has not only established prior user, at least
> from 1995, but also prior registration of the mark.
c) In Cluett Peabody & Co. Inc. vs. Arrow Apparels, 1998 (18) PTC 156 (Bom)
the principles for consideration in an action for infringement or passing off
under the Trade Marks Act was revisited. It was held that "Just as the right
of customers or the purchasers of the goods are required to be protected so
also traders who are in business over a long period of time, cannot be
harassed by threat of litigation by registered proprietors, particularly when
after registration, they have not used the mark for long period."
d) In Smithkline Beecham Plc. & Ors. vs. M/s Hindustan Lever Limited & Ors.,
1999 (19) PTC 775 held that "in order to prove trans-border goodwill and
reputation the plaintiffs have relied upon materials published in the dental
journal which admittedly has very restricted circulation. Mere publication of
such advertisement and materials in dental journal cannot and would not
establish a trans- border reputation. Such reputation, if any, was confined to
a particular class of people i.e. the persons subscribing to the said
specialized journals and cannot be said to be extended to the general
consumers." (emphasis supplied)
e) In the matter of R.J. Reynods Tobacco Company vs. Indian Tobacco Company
Ltd., 32 (1987) DLT 177, the plaintiff was the registered proprietor of
trademark NOW for tobacco in more than 80 countries including in India.
However the mark was never put to use in India. Plaintiff filed a suit against
defendant for use of an identical mark for cigarettes in India. Defendant was
using the  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 30 of 37 mark extensively. Held that the
balance of convenience was in favour of the defendant. Accordingly, it was
ruled that injunction would not be granted and therefore, the application was
rejected.
45\. (i) In Roca (supra) the facts are different, it was a common word. The
defendant was using the mark Roca for the last many years. Even in India,
there was not sufficient to show the trans-border reputation, therefore the
injunction was not granted in the present case. The mark NUCYNTA was common
word and goods in which the marks used are pharmaceutical preparation, thus,
different test is used when the life saving drug is involved. The similar are
the reasons in the case of Chorion Rights Ltd. (supra).
ii) Another judgment referred by the defendant was in the case of Cluett
Peabody & Co. (supra) which has no application as in the said case the
injunction was refused mainly on the reason of long delay for taking the
action against the defendants and at the same time there was a non user of the
mark in India. In order to strike the balance between the parties such order
was passed. It is also a matter of fact that the Courts have delivered
judgments by taking the different view by accepting the concept of trans-
border goodwill and reputation, even by the Supreme Court in the case of
Whirlpool (supra) took the same view. The same is the circumstances in the
case of Smithkline Beecham Plc. (supra) where the facts are materially
different.
iii) With regard to the case of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (supra), the
facts in the said case were totally different. The mark involved in the said
case was NOW which was very common word and never used in India or any part of
the world. The plaintiff never intended to use the said mark, therefore, the
injunction was not granted. However, the facts in the present case are
different. In the  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 31 of 37 present case, the
plaintiff has not been using the mark in many countries of the world. The same
was registered, printed and electronic evidence is available in India. There
is valid reason given by the plaintiff not to use the mark in India on
commercial scale on the main reason that the similar mark is being used by the
defendants. Mr.Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior counsel for the plaintiff says
that there would be total confusion and deception in the mark in case for the
same drug, two similar marks would be used by two different parties and image
and goodwill of the plaintiff would be tarnished.
46\. Even prior to the alleged use by the defendant No. 1 of the mark LUCYNTA
in India since October, 2011, the plaintiff had applied for a trademark
application on 2nd September, 2011 (under No. 2199474 in class 05) seeking
registration of the said mark in India with an obvious intent of using the
said mark in India.
47\. The argument raised by defendant No.1 has no relevance that plaintiff has
no intention to come to India has no bearing and is anyway immaterial for the
purpose of the present dispute. It is most respectfully submitted that in a
case like this where the adoption of the impugned mark LUCYNTA by defendant
No.1 is ex facie dishonest, the question of whether or not the plaintiff has
any intention to use its mark in India is inconsequential. Reliance is placed
on the judgement of Supreme Court in Milmet Oftho (supra) (para 8).
48\. Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior counsel has rightly argued that the
defendant No.1, admittedly, has an alternative brand "TRANSDOL" under which it
is selling the identical pharmaceutical preparation i.e. Tapentadol
Hydrochloride Tablets in India. The said brand is doing fairly well in the
market and enjoys higher sales as  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 32 of 37 compared
to LUCYNTA. There was no occasion for defendant No.1 to use the mark LUCYNTA.
49\. The defendant No. 1 has failed to explain as to how the said defendant
came to adopt the mark LUCYNTA, which is nothing but a blatant imitation of
plaintiff's arbitrary and coined mark NUCYNTA in relation to an identical
pharmaceutical preparation, particularly. In the absence of any explanation
much less any satisfactory explanation by the defendant, the adoption of the
mark LUCYNTA by the said defendant cannot be regarded as honest. Reliance is
placed on Whirlpool (supra) (para 44); Alferd Dunhill Limited v. R.P.S. Chawla
and Others 2004 (29) PTC 39 (para 6); Go Delhi Luxury Tours v. Go Delhi Tours
2012 (51) PTC 273 (para 23).
50\. The said defendant cannot claim to be unaware of the reputation and/or
extensive use of the mark NUCYNTA by the plaintiff. Defendant No.1,
admittedly, has an alternative brand TRANSDOL under which it is selling the
identical pharmaceutical preparation i.e. Tapentadol Hydrochloride Tablets in
India. Accordingly, no prejudice would be caused to the said defendant if it
is restrained from using the impugned mark LUCYNTA. Thus, the plaintiff has
been able to make out a prima facie case for grant of injunction.
51\. Even internet search by defendant No. 1 for its mark "LUCYNTA" would have
revealed to the said defendant, the prior existence of the plaintiff's mark
"NUCYNTA". In fact, when one searches for the expression "lucynta medicine" on
"Google", the search results that are thrown up are for the plaintiff's
pharmaceutical preparation sold under the mark NUCYNTA.
52\. Thus, in view of above said reasons and material placed on record, it is
no doubt apparent that the trademark of the plaintiff has a  CS(OS)
No.1931/2012 Page 33 of 37 unique goodwill and reputation in India, also as
people in India are aware about the said mark despite of the fact that the
trademark NUCYNTA is not being used on commercial scale in India. Delay
53\. The issue of delay in passing off matters has been considered by Courts
from time to time. Some of them are referred to as under:
a) In the case of Midas Hygiene Industries Pvt. Ltd. vs. Sudhir Bhatia and
Others, 2004 (28) PTC 121, wherein it was held in the judgment that in case,
no explanation could be given as to why the identical label is used and there
is dishonest intention to pass off his goods as those of plaintiff, then the
interim order can be passed.
b) In the case of Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. vs. M/s India Stationery
Products Co., AIR 1990 Delhi 19 it was held as under :
> ".........It was observed by Romer, J. in the matter of an application
> brought by J.R. Parkingnon and Co. Ltd., (1946) 63 RPC 171 at page 181 that
> "in my judgment, the circumstances which attend the adoption of a trade mark
> in the first instance are of considerable importance when one comes to
> consider whether the use of that mark has or has not been a honest user. If
> the user in its inception was tainted it would be difficult in most cases to
> purify it subsequently". It was further noted by the learned Judge in that
> case that he could not regard the discreditable origin of the user as
> cleansed by the subsequent history."
c) In the case of M/s. Bengal Waterproof Ltd. vs. M/s. Bombay Waterproof
Manufacturing Co., AIR 1997 SC 1398 it was held as under :
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 34 of 37
> "20.........It is now well settled that an action for passing off is a
> common law remedy being an action in substance of deceit under the Law of
> Torts. Wherever and whenever fresh deceitful act is committed the person
> deceived would naturally have a fresh cause of action in his favour. Thus
> every time when a person passes off his goods as those of another he commits
> the act of such deceit. Similarly whenever and wherever a person commits
> breach of a registered trade mark of another he commits a recurring act of
> breach or infringement of such trade mark giving a recurring and fresh cause
> of action at each time of such infringement to the party aggrieved. It is
> difficult to agree how in such a case when in historical past earlier suit
> was disposed of as technically not maintainable in absence of proper relief,
> for all times to come in future defendant of such a suit should be armed
> with a license to go on committing fresh acts of infringement and passing
> off with impunity without being subjected to any legal action against such
> future acts."
The ratio of the aforesaid decisions is squarely applicable to the facts of
the present case. Thus, injunction cannot be refused on account of delay as
the plaintiff has made a strong prima facie case of passing off. Even
otherwise, from the facts in the present case, there is no much delay in
bringing the action by the plaintiff against the defendants. The plaintiff has
filed the suit against the defendants in the month of May, 2012. The defendant
No.1 has admitted that it has launched the product in October, 2011. There is
a small delay of about 8 months. Being a foreign company, it always takes some
time to bring the suit for the purpose of collecting documents and preparing
the papers. The defendants' suit is of subsequent date as the same was filed
in July, 2012 i.e. after the suit of the plaintiff.
54\. Under these circumstances, it is clear that the plaintiff has established
a prima facie case in its favour. The balance of convenience is also in favour
of the plaintiff and against the  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 35 of 37
defendants. The plaintiff is the prior adopter and user of the mark NUCYNTA
internationally. The defendant No. 1's adoption of a similar mark LUCYNTA is
not coincidental. The defendant No.1 has no plausible justification for the
adoption/use of the mark LUCYNTA.
55\. In case the defendants are not restrained from using the mark LUCYNTA,
irreparable loss and damage would continue to be caused not only to the
plaintiff's proprietary rights in its coveted mark NUCYNTA but also to the
public at large. Taking into consideration the fact that the products in
questions are pharmaceutical preparations having a bearing on public health
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
CS(OS) 1931/2012
59\. List the matter before Roster Bench on 20th April, 2015 for further
proceedings.
(MANMOHAN SINGH) JUDGE FEBRUARY 27, 2015  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 37 of 37
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining passing off and rendition of accounts and/or damages, against the
defendants in respect of the mark LUCYNTA.
2\. By this order, I propose to decide the pending application being I.A.
No.11918/2012 filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC read with
Section 151 CPC.
3\. Brief facts of the case as per plaint are :
i) That the plaintiff, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
State of New Jersey, USA, was founded in the year 1886\. The plaintiff along
with its group companies claims to be the world leaders in pharmaceutical and
consumer products. It  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 1 of 37 is stated that
plaintiff has a highly diversified business with at least 250 subsidiaries in
57 countries around the world.
ii) Plaintiff's subsidiary Johnson & Johnson Limited was incorporated in India
in the year 1957. It is averred that the same is today amongst the leading
manufacturers, merchants, dealers and distributors of human pharmaceutical
preparations in India. With over last more than 50 years presence in India,
plaintiff has gained reputation for offering high-quality products at
competitive prices.
iii) It is averred that the plaintiff in the year 2008, adopted the mark
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining passing off and rendition of accounts and/or damages, against the
defendants in respect of the mark LUCYNTA.
2\. By this order, I propose to decide the pending application being I.A.
No.11918/2012 filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC read with
Section 151 CPC.
3\. Brief facts of the case as per plaint are :
i) That the plaintiff, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
State of New Jersey, USA, was founded in the year 1886\. The plaintiff along
with its group companies claims to be the world leaders in pharmaceutical and
consumer products. It  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 1 of 37 is stated that
plaintiff has a highly diversified business with at least 250 subsidiaries in
57 countries around the world.
ii) Plaintiff's subsidiary Johnson & Johnson Limited was incorporated in India
in the year 1957. It is averred that the same is today amongst the leading
manufacturers, merchants, dealers and distributors of human pharmaceutical
preparations in India. With over last more than 50 years presence in India,
plaintiff has gained reputation for offering high-quality products at
competitive prices.
iii) It is averred that the plaintiff in the year 2008, adopted the mark
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining passing off and rendition of accounts and/or damages, against the
defendants in respect of the mark LUCYNTA.
2\. By this order, I propose to decide the pending application being I.A.
No.11918/2012 filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC read with
Section 151 CPC.
3\. Brief facts of the case as per plaint are :
i) That the plaintiff, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
State of New Jersey, USA, was founded in the year 1886\. The plaintiff along
with its group companies claims to be the world leaders in pharmaceutical and
consumer products. It  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 1 of 37 is stated that
plaintiff has a highly diversified business with at least 250 subsidiaries in
57 countries around the world.
ii) Plaintiff's subsidiary Johnson & Johnson Limited was incorporated in India
in the year 1957. It is averred that the same is today amongst the leading
manufacturers, merchants, dealers and distributors of human pharmaceutical
preparations in India. With over last more than 50 years presence in India,
plaintiff has gained reputation for offering high-quality products at
competitive prices.
iii) It is averred that the plaintiff in the year 2008, adopted the mark
NUCYNTA in relation to its Tapentadol based drug, an opioid pain reliever.
Tapentadol, which is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic)
analgesics and is used to treat moderate to severe pain that is expected to
last for a short time.
iv) Plaintiff through its fully owned subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-
> Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.) applied for
> the New Drug Application (NDA) for NUCYNTA before United States Food and
> Drug Administration (FDA) which was granted on 20th November, 2008.
v) NUCYNTA was launched in USA on 22nd June, 2009 where it has been
continuously and extensively used since then. Plaintiff also obtained the FDA
approval in the August 2011 for NUCYNTA ER, an extended release formulation of
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
1\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for permanent injunction
restraining passing off and rendition of accounts and/or damages, against the
defendants in respect of the mark LUCYNTA.
2\. By this order, I propose to decide the pending application being I.A.
No.11918/2012 filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC read with
Section 151 CPC.
3\. Brief facts of the case as per plaint are :
i) That the plaintiff, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
State of New Jersey, USA, was founded in the year 1886\. The plaintiff along
with its group companies claims to be the world leaders in pharmaceutical and
consumer products. It  CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 1 of 37 is stated that
plaintiff has a highly diversified business with at least 250 subsidiaries in
57 countries around the world.
ii) Plaintiff's subsidiary Johnson & Johnson Limited was incorporated in India
in the year 1957. It is averred that the same is today amongst the leading
manufacturers, merchants, dealers and distributors of human pharmaceutical
preparations in India. With over last more than 50 years presence in India,
plaintiff has gained reputation for offering high-quality products at
competitive prices.
iii) It is averred that the plaintiff in the year 2008, adopted the mark
NUCYNTA in relation to its Tapentadol based drug, an opioid pain reliever.
Tapentadol, which is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic)
analgesics and is used to treat moderate to severe pain that is expected to
last for a short time.
iv) Plaintiff through its fully owned subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-
> Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.) applied for
> the New Drug Application (NDA) for NUCYNTA before United States Food and
> Drug Administration (FDA) which was granted on 20th November, 2008.
v) NUCYNTA was launched in USA on 22nd June, 2009 where it has been
continuously and extensively used since then. Plaintiff also obtained the FDA
approval in the August 2011 for NUCYNTA ER, an extended release formulation of
and safety, thus interim order is necessary in the present case to be passed
against the defendants as the balance of convenience lies in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants.
56\. Thus, the prayer made in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2
read with Section 151 CPC is allowed. The defendants are restrained during the
pendency of suit from using of trademark LUCYNTA in respect of pharmaceutical
and medicinal preparation and/or any mark which is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's trade mark NUCYNTA.
57\. As the defendants have been using the trademark since October, 2011,
therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play the defendants are
granted three months' time to dispose off the earlier stock bearing the mark
LUCYNTA.
58\. It is made clear that the finding arrived while disposing off the present
application are tentative and shall have no bearing when the matter is decided
at the final stage of suit after trial.
CS(OS) No.1931/2012 Page 36 of 37
