Delhi High Court
Eisai Co. Ltd. & Anr. vs Satish Reddy & Anr. on 6 May, 2019
    $~
    * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                       Date of Decision: 06th May, 2019
    +     CS(COMM) 1169/2018 & I.As. 13934/2018, 15885/2018
          EISAI CO. LTD. & ANR.                       ..... Plaintiffs
                          Through: Mr.Sudhir Chandra, Senior Advocate
                                    with Mr.Pravin Anand, Ms.Archana
                                    Sanker, Mr.Dhruv Anand, Ms.Vidisha
                                    Garg, Ms.Udita Patro and Mr.Nischay
                                    Mall, Advocates for plaintiffs
                          versus
          SATISH REDDY & ANR.                         ..... Defendants
                          Through: Mr.Saikrishna Rajagopal, Ms.Sneha
                                    Jain, Mr.Devvrat Joshi, Mr.Amitavo
                                    Mitra and Ms.Garima Sawhney,
                                    Advocates
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                 JUDGMENT
I.A. 13934/2018
1\. The plaintiffs have instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling, distributing,
exporting or offering for sale of any product that infringes the plaintiffs‟
patent No. 215528 including Lorcaserin or any of its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts including Lorcaserin Hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as „LH‟) and Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate (hereinafter referred to as
„LHH‟). The plaintiffs are also seeking damages, accounts and costs from the
defendants. In I.A. 13934/2018, the plaintiffs are seeking interim injunction
against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 1 of 37
2\. The defendants appeared before this Court on the very first date i.e. 08th
October, 2018 to oppose the injunction. The relevant portion of the order
dated 08th October, 2018 is reproduced hereunder:
> "5. Issue notice. Learned counsel for the defendant accepts notice.
> 6\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses for an interim injunction
> against the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
> defendant has not yet launched their product in India.
> 7\. Learned counsel for the defendant submits that the defendants have
> received the marketing approval and the product is likely to be launched in
> January, 2019. Learned counsel for the defendant, however, submits that
> plaintiff is not entitled to injunction as the plaintiff has not worked out
> their patent in India. Reliance is placed on Division Bench judgment of this
> Court in Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers 1996 (37) DRJ (DB).
> 8\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the aforesaid judgment
> would not help the defendants who have not yet launched their product in
> India. Reliance is placed on the order dated 14th February, 2017 in Bayer
> Intellectual Property GMBH v. BDR Pharmaceuticals International Pvt. Ltd.
> 9\. Since the defendants have not yet launched their product which is likely
> to be launched in January, 2019, the hearing on the injunction application
> is deferred till pleadings are completed."
3\. The defendants have filed the written statement to which the plaintiffs
have filed their replication. Both the parties have filed their respective
documents and have also carried out the admission/denial of the documents.
Plaintiffs' Case
4\. Plaintiff No.1, a Japanese Pharmaceutical Company, is an exclusive
licensee of Indian Patent No. 215528 whereas plaintiff No. 2 is the patentee
in respect of the aforesaid patent. Plaintiff No.2 claims to have invented a
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 2 of 37 man-made molecule named Lorcaserin, not found
in nature, around the year 2001\. The plaintiff researched and conducted
clinical trials and studies for next eight years on over 8,000 patients. The
Phase-III studies were concluded in 2010. The cardio vascular trials were
concluded in 2018 on over 12,000 patients to establish the safety of
Lorcaserin. Lorcaserin has been studied on over 20,000 patients over the last
15 years. The plaintiffs claim to have spent almost 18 years and a cost of
approximately 1 billion dollars to develop Lorcaserin molecule and in
conducting clinical trials to commercialize the same.
5\. Plaintiff no.2 obtained patents in over 65 jurisdictions and the said
patent has not been revoked in any country. In 2006, WHO recognized Lorcaserin
to be a new molecule. From 2010 to 2018, the plaintiff carried out the
mandatory requirements of US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). Marketing
approvals have been granted in six countries namely USA, South Korea, Taiwan,
Israel, Brazil and Mexico.
6\. The plaintiff applied for patent in India on 23 rd September, 2004 in
pursuance to which patent No.215528 was granted on 27 th February, 2008 for
the period of 20 years i.e. from 11th April, 2003 till 10th April, 2023. There
were no pre-grant oppositions, no post-grant oppositions, no revocations and
in pursuant suit, no counter-claim has been filed. The suit patent has thus
existed undisturbed on the register for more than 10 years. The plaintiffs
have applied for the marketing approval which is yet to be granted. The
plaintiffs have already completed the critical steps towards regulatory
approval for its drug product in India. The plaintiffs expect the marketing
approval to be granted by March, 2019.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 3 of 37
7\. By virtue of grant of the suit patent no. IN215528, the plaintiffs have
the exclusive right to prevent any third party from the act of making, using,
offering for sale, exporting or importing the subject matter of the suit
patent and all its pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates or hydrates,
including LHH, as claimed in the suit patent (in particular by Claims 38 and
39) up to 10th April, 2023.
8\. In late August, 2018, the plaintiffs found that the defendants were
planning to commercialize Lorcaserin in Indian market. Further online search
revealed that the defendants have filed a US patent application for LH being
US patent application No.14/141, 112. The plaintiffs further found that the
defendants approached the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) for permission to
manufacture and market LH in India. The defendants were subsequently granted
such permission in the SEC meeting of 28 th August, 2018\. The plaintiffs
promptly filed the present lawsuit on 5 th October, 2018.
9\. According to the plaintiffs, the defendant‟s product LHH infringes the
plaintiffs‟ patent No.215528 which covers Lorcaserin and its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, including LHH, which are specifically claimed in Claims 38
and 39. According to the plaintiffs, to obtain its marketing approval in
India, the defendants have piggy-backed on the data generated by the
plaintiffs who have spent millions of dollars by carrying out more than 18
different studies. As opposed to this, the defendants have carried out limited
bioequivalence studies with reference to the plaintiffs‟ drug.
10\. The suit patent is a Basic patent which discloses:
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 4 of 37
> (i) Manufacture of 54 compounds (5HT2c receptor modulators), including
> Lorcaserin (specifically disclosed in Example 26 at page 63 and claimed in
> Claims 38 and 39 at page 100).
> (ii) Claims 38 and 39 specifically claim Lorcaserin and all its
> pharmaceutically acceptable salts and hydrates. Lorcaserin is the first of
> its kind selective 5HT2c Receptor Agonist used in the treatment of obesity.
> It binds to receptors in the hypothalamus and activates them leading to
> feeling of satiety.
> (iii) At pages 29 and 30, the patent specification discusses possibility of
> salts being made of the compounds of the invention (including that of
> Lorcaserin) with various acids, including hydrochloric acid. Further
> formations of solvate forms of the compounds of the present invention are
> also disclosed.
11\. There exists a prima facie case of infringement of the suit patent, in
favour of the plaintiff, especially in view of the following factors:
> (i) The defendants are infringing their patent as Lorcaserin forms the major
> portion of LH and LHH cannot be made without using Lorcaserin. The
> defendants cannot manufacture their product without infringing the patents
> in the first place. Reliance is placed on MERCK v. Glenmark (2015) 223 DLT
> 454:
> "75. ...It has come on record that Sitagliptin forms the major portion of
> Sitagliptin Phosphate Monohydrate. ...use of Sitagliptin free base alone in
> Sitagliptin Phosphate Monohydrate tablet by the defendant itself amounts to
> infringement of the suit patent."
> (ii) The defendants have admitted that their drug is covered by the
> plaintiffs‟ patent in the statement dated 14 th January, 2019 of Mr. CS
> (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 5 of 37 Girish Parhate, Director of the Defendant for
> Indian Drug Regulations Affairs, recorded as part of the Order on the said
> date:
> "I say that the defendant disclosed in their application dated 29th June,
> 2016 that the drug in question is covered by the plaintiffs‟ patent No. IN
> 215528".
> (iii) The defendants had complete knowledge of the plaintiffs‟ patent for
> Lorcaserin in 2014, when the defendants applied for its US patent
> application 2014/0187538A1. The defendants have clearly admitted in the said
> application that the PCT application corresponding to the suit patent i.e.
> WO2003/086306 discloses Lorcaserin. The defendants‟ aforesaid application
> further discloses Formula I, which is LH:
> "Various processes for the preparation of compound of Formula I, its related
> salts, enantiomers and intermediates have been reported in WO
> 2003/086306...."
> WO2003/086306 is the PCT application corresponding to the suit patent.
> (iv) Admission by the defendants in the pre-grant opposition filed against
> the plaintiff‟s pending Indian Patent Application No. 311/KOLNP/2009 for LHH
> on page 8 paras 20-23 of the pre-grant opposition filed by the defendants,
> in which the defendants clearly admit that in PCT application WO2003/086306
> (suit patent) there is explicit and unambiguous disclosure of hydrochloride
> salt of Lorcaserin and method of preparing thereof.
12\. The balance of convenience for the grant of interim injunction lies in
favour of the plaintiffs as the defendants has evidently not "cleared the way"
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 6 of 37
before going ahead with obtaining a marketing approval for launch of the
infringing product. Though the defendants are attempting to take the defense
that the suit patent is invalid, it has till date, even though the suit patent
has been on the Patent Office record for more than 10 years, not taken any
steps to seek invalidation of the suit patent or seek a declaration of non-
infringement.
13\. The plaintiffs shall suffer irreparably if the injunction is not granted.
On the other hand, the defendants, as per their own admission, obtained
manufacturing approval on 22nd October, 2018 and had not commenced the
manufacturing of the drug at the time of filing of the present suit. An
injunction against the defendants would not cause them any harm or injury as
the infringing drug of the defendants are not yet in the market.
14\. Reliance is placed on Merck v. Glenmark; 2015 (63) PTC 257 [Del][DB] in
which the Division Bench of this Court held that:
> "However, if a defendant is aware that there may be a possible challenge to
> its product, but still chooses to release the drug without first invoking
> revocation proceedings or attempting to negotiate, that is surely a relevant
> factor. The defendant‟s legal right to challenge the patent at any point in
> time is intact, but that does not mean that this factor cannot determine the
> interim arrangement. This is more so where Glenmark today argues that MSD
> ought to have disclosed international patent applications for SPM and
> Sitagliptin plus Metformin since they were the "same or substantially the
> same" as the suit patent under Section 8. That is Glenmark‟s stated
> position. Such being the state of things, it is surely reasonable for
> Glenmark to detect the possibility to challenge, when a US patent
> application for SPM filed by it was opposed by MSD. Despite this, Glenmark
> released the drug without initiating revocation proceedings under the Act,
> which is also a right vested in CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 7 of 37 Glenmark
> that would have obviated the need for the interim arrangement we are today
> considering. This does not mean that Glenmark‟s right to question the
> validity of the patent in an infringement is affected, but the manner of
> challenge is a relevant factor against it at the interim stage. As Justice
> Jacob noted in both Smithkline Beecham cases (supra):
> "I remain of the same opinion that I was in the Generics case. Where
> litigation is bound to ensue if the defendant introduces his product he can
> avoid all the problems of an interlocutory injunction if he clears the way
> first. That is what the procedures for revocation and declaration of non-
> infringement are for."
> (Emphasis Supplied)
> 15\. Reliance is also placed on the following paragraph of Merck v.
Glenmark (supra) to demonstrate that the non-grant of an injunction in a
strong case of infringement would lead to irreparable injury to the Plaintiff:
> „This leads us to the second principle, which is whether the Court can
> overlook the public interest in maintaining the integrity of the patent
> system itself, so that a legitimate monopoly is not distorted. As this Court
> noted in Bayer Corporation and Ors. v. Cipla, Union of India (UOI) and Ors.,
> 162 (2009) DLT 371 "[i]f, after a patentee, rewarded for his toil - in the
> form of protection against infringement - were to be informed that someone,
> not holding a patent, would be reaping the fruits of his efforts and
> investment, such a result would be destructive of the objectives underlying
> the Patents Act. The Court must be mindful - especially in a case where a
> strong case of infringement is established, as here - there is an interest
> in enforcing the Act. It may be argued that despite this no injunction
> should be granted since all damages from loss of sales can be compensated
> monetarily ultimately if the patentee prevails. This argument though
> appealing, is to be rejected because a closer look at the market forces
> reveal that the damage can in some cases be irreparable.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 8 of 37
> This in turn leads to the third principle, which is where an infringer is
> allowed to operate in the interim during the trial, it may result in a
> reduction in price by that infringer since it has no research and
> development expenses to recoup - most revenue becomes profit. The patentee
> however can only do so at its peril. Importantly, prices may not recover
> after the patentee ultimately prevails, even if it is able to survive the
> financial setback (or "hit") during the interim, which may take some time.
> The victory for the patentee therefore should not be pyrrhic but real."
> (Emphasis Supplied)
> 16\. The defendants have taken three main defenses in the Written Statement.
> The first contention of the defendants is that they are not infringing the
> suit patent as the patent does not cover LHH, which is what the defendants
> have obtained a marketing approval for. The defendants‟ primary argument is
> that the plaintiffs have made certain admissions in reply to oppositions
> filed by a third party against the plaintiffs‟ subsequent patent
> applications concerning LHH, which show that the plaintiffs‟ patent does not
> disclose LHH.
17\. According to the plaintiffs, the above contention is completely
fallacious as it ignores the well-established concepts of basic and
improvement patents. The plaintiffs rely on I. G. Farbenindustrie A.G.'s
Patents; (1930) 47 RPC 289 at page 321:
> "It may be observed that chemicals patents in recent years have consisted of
> two sharply divided classes. The first class is that of patents based on
> what may be described as an originating invention, that is, the discovery of
> a new reaction or a new compound. Such patents may be called for brevity
> "originating patents". The second class comprises patents (the so-called
> selection patents) based on a selection of related compounds such as the
> homologues CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 9 of 37 and substitution derivatives of
> the original compounds which presumably have been described in general terms
> and claimed in the originating patent."
18\. The suit patent is in the nature of an originating/genus patent and the
various subsequent patent applications were for improvement/selection
inventions, which specifically discloses and claims a particular „species‟ of
the genus patent, i.e. the hydrochloride hemihydrate form. Merely because the
plaintiffs have applied for a patent separately for a specific species of the
genus disclosed in the suit patent, does not mean that the species patent
cannot be granted or that the species patent would not fall within the
coverage of the genus patent (i.e. the suit patent in the present case).
19\. Grant of a subsequent patent, which is an improvement invention, does not
take the said forms out of the first/basic patent, which in the present case
is the suit patent. If the subsequent patent is granted, the pharmaceutical
product in such a case gets covered by two patents and an infringer making the
pharmaceutical patent would infringe two patents. For this, reliance is placed
upon Extract from Pharmaceutical Patent Law by John R, Thomas.
20\. The plaintiffs further rely on the decision of the Court of Appeals for
England and Wales in Dr. Reddy's Laboratories (UK) Ltd. v Eli Lily, 2010 RPC
9. In this case, Dr.Reddy sought revocation of Eli Lily‟s patent from
Olanzapine drug, stating that the patent of Eli Lily was not novel on the
ground that it was disclosed in a previous patent which disclosed a general
formula. The Court while rejecting the revocation petition of Dr.Reddy held
the following:
> "First then, the a priori considerations apart from case- law. An old
> question and answer runs as a follows: "Where does a wise man hide a leaf?
> In a forest." It is, at least CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 10 of 37 faintly,
> ridiculous to say that a particular leaf has been made available to you by
> telling you that it is in Sherwood Forest. Once identified, you can of
> course see it. But if not identified you know only the generality: that
> Sherwood Forest has millions of leaves."
21\. The above passage shows that even though a genus patent exists, a second
subsequent patent can be granted for a „species‟ present in the genus patent.
Reliance is placed on Merck v. Glenmark (Supra) and Roche v. Cipla (65) PTC 1
(Del) (DB).
22\. The plaintiffs‟ pleadings before the Patent Office have been
reproduced/relied upon by the defendants in their written submissions in a
misleading manner.
23\. As regards the second contention of the defendants that the plaintiffs
have not worked out the suit patent in India, it is submitted that the said
contention is fallacious for the following reasons:
> (i) In case of non-working, the remedy provided under Sections 83 and 84 of
> the Patents Act, 1970 is for the defendants to seek a compulsory License.
> The defendants instead of applying for either a voluntary license or a
> compulsory License, on its own volition decided to go ahead and seek a
> marketing approval from the DCGI‟s office by relying upon the data of the
> plaintiffs.
> (ii) It is well-established that non-working (especially in case of a patent
> for a pharmaceutical product) cannot have a bearing on the rights of a
> patentee under Section 48 of the Patents Act, 1970. The case which discusses
> non-working and its consequences in cases of pharmaceuticals patents, is
> Cipla v. Novartis; 2017 (70) PTC 80 [DB] which holds that non-working of a
> patent does not have any CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 11 of 37 bearing on
> Section 48 of the Patents Act, 1970 which lays down the Exclusive Rights of
> a Patentee.
> "It is immediately clear that the provisions of section 83 do not curtail or
> circumscribe the rights of the patentees under Section 48, except in the
> background of compulsory licenses..."
> (iii) The cases cited by the defendants are not applicable in the present
> case as they relate to mechanical patents. The regulatory regime governing
> pharmaceutical products is far more stringent and it takes a lot of effort
> and time for a company to ensure that its product is ready, through multiple
> testing‟s/clinical trials for regulatory approval.
> (iv) The case of Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers; AIR 1997 Del 79
> related to a special kind of loom which was vital for the textile industry
> of the country and which would affect the economy of the country, thereby
> seriously affecting the market and economy. The Court in the said case found
> that if the plea for injunction was accepted then it would seriously affect
> the market and economy conditions in our country inasmuch as it would enable
> a mechanical device invented abroad (or in India) to be registered in India
> and kept unused thereby excluding public of its benefits and at the same
> time preclude the similar device being produced or used in our market or
> industry.
> (v) In the present case, the plaintiffs applied for marketing approval which
> will be granted within a period of next two-three months and therefore,
> Franz Xaver (supra) is totally distinguishable in the facts of the present
> case.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 12 of 37
> (vi) In each of the cited cases, the defendants‟ products were already out
> in the market. Moreover, there have been significant changes in the
> compulsory licensing regime under Sections 83 and 84 of the Patents Act, as
> a result of the amendment to the Patents Act in 2005\. All the cases cited
> are prior to 2005.
> (vii) The plaintiff has gradually taken preparatory steps to commercialize
> the LHH product in India and is expected to receive final regulatory
> approval by end of March, 2019. Thus, the question of non-working is
> completely moot and irrelevant, especially since the defendants‟ product
> itself is not in the market.
24\. The last contention raised by the defendants is that the suit patent is
invalid. It is submitted by the plaintiffs, that the defendants arguments on
the validity of the suit patent in view of Section 3(d), is completely
baseless. The suit patent is a novel and inventive compound (new chemical
entity) and does not fall under Section 3(d) of the Indian Patents Act. For
Section 3(d) to apply, the following two criteria have to be satisfied:
> (i) The claimed invention is a new form of a known substance or a derivative
> of a known substance; and
> (ii) The said known substance should have known efficacy. In other words, it
> is not enough for Section 3(d) to be attracted to show that there is some
> known compound in the prior art which allegedly bears some structural
> resemblance to the claimed compound. There is no known substance at the
> prior date of the instant application. The compounds of the present
> invention are structurally different from the compounds disclosed in the
> cited references. Further, the compounds as claimed in the present invention
> are not a salt, ester, ether or CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 13 of 37 polymorph
> or derivative of any known compound that has known efficacy. Reliance is
> placed on para 105 of the Merck v. Glenmark (supra) in which it was observed
> as follows:
> "It is worth pointing out here that the biological activity of a molecule
> and its utility as a medicine is completely dependent on the structure as a
> whole. That is, each part of the molecule makes some contribution to the
> overall biological effect".
> Defendants' case
25\. The plaintiffs have suppressed various facts which disentitle them from
interim injunction. The plaintiffs have suppressed the fact that they have not
worked the suit patent in India till date despite the passage of more than 15
½ years of the life of the patient, which disentitle the plaintiffs to the
relief of interim injunction. The non-working of the suit patent disentitle
the plaintiffs from any interim relief. The plaintiffs‟ assertion that they
will launch in March, 2019 is misleading. The plaintiffs have admittedly
applied for approvals only in November, 2018 and December, 2018. As per
statutory timelines prescribed by Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, it takes
around 12- 18 months from the time of application to obtain approvals for
launching a product. In this regard, defendants have filed an affidavit of Mr.
Girish Parhate, Director (Regulatory Affairs) of defendants‟ company on
timelines for grant of regulatory approvals. Thus, as per the statutory
timelines, the plaintiffs would not be in a position to launch by March, 2019,
which is just 6 months from date of application. In this regard, defendants
have relied upon working statements from 2011-2017 of suit patent. Reliance is
placed on Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers (Supra); Glaverbel S.A. v.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 14 of 37
Dave Rose., 2010 (43) PTC 630 (Del); Sandeep Jaidka v Mukesh Mittal, 2014 SCC
OnLine 2970.
26\. The plaintiffs are also disentitled to any equitable relief in light of
the deliberate suppression of the various admissions made by the plaintiff
No.2 before the Indian Patent Office (IPO) as also before the European Patent
Office (EPO), which are completely contrary to the assertions, which have been
made in the instant suit. Most importantly, the admissions by the plaintiff
no.2 before the IPO and the EPO clearly establish that LH and LHH are outside
the scope of the suit patent. Thus, by the plaintiffs‟ own admissions, it is
evident that the suit patent cannot be used to assert or restraint the
defendant No.2 from manufacturing and selling Lorcaserin Hydrochloride or
hemihydrate of lorcaserin salt and thus, no case of infringement is made out.
27\. European Counterpart of LHH is EP1838677. As per Examination Report dated
25th March, 2008 issued by the European Patent Office (EPO) during the
prosecution of the said patent, the Examiner had raised an objection that LHH
lacks inventive step in light of the suit patent. In the response dated 19th
May, 2008 filed by the plaintiff no.2 to this examination report, the
plaintiff no.2 has categorically admitted that the suit patent describes
preparation of the free base of Lorcaserin and there is no teaching or
suggestion of the corresponding hydrochloride hemihydrate.
28\. Plaintiff No.2 has filed a separate patent application for LH
(311/KOLNP/2009) (hereinafter referred to as „311 Application‟). A pre- grant
opposition has been filed by a third party (Symed Labs Ltd.). On 02 nd May,
2018, plaintiff No.2 filed a reply to the Symed‟s pre-grant opposition CS
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 15 of 37 wherein plaintiff No.2 has categorically
asserted and admitted that LH is distinct from the compound claimed in the
suit patent.
29\. Plaintiff No.2 has also filed a separate patent application for the
hemihydrate of Lorcaserin salt i.e. for crystalline Form 3 R enantiomer of LH
(2296/KOLNP/2007) (hereinafter referred to as „2296 Application‟).
30\. Plaintiff No.2 has filed another separate patent application for the same
hemihydrate of Lorcaserin salt i.e. for crystalline Form 3 R enantiomer of LH
(1208/KOLNP/2012) (hereinafter referred to as „1208 Application‟).
31\. The plaintiffs, in the response dated 09th April, 2012 to the First
Examination Report (FER), in „2296 Application‟, asserted and admitted that
the suit patent does not provide any teaching, suggestion or motivation for a
person skilled in the art to specifically select the hemihydrate of Lorcaserin
salt.
32\. The plaintiffs, in the response dated 15th January, 2018 to the FER dated
27th April, 2017 in „1208 Application‟ have also categorically asserted and
admitted that the suit patent does not provide any teaching, suggestion or
motivation for a person skilled in the art to specifically select the
hemihydrate of Lorcaserin salt.
33\. Plaintiff No.2 has filed a reply dated 16th April, 2018 to pre-grant
opposition filed by third party (Symed Labs) in „2296 Application‟ wherein
plaintiff no.2 has categorically admitted that the hemihydrate of Lorcaserin
salt is not anticipated by the suit patent.
34\. Considering that the defendant No.2‟s approvals from the Directorate
General of Health Services are for LHH, which was not anticipated or obvious
or covered or disclosed (and thus is, in no way, enabled) by the suit CS
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 16 of 37 patent, no relief can be granted to the
plaintiffs in relation to LHH, and the defendant no.2 is not infringing the
suit patent.
35\. A patent cannot be used to injunct a product that is not taught,
motivated, suggested, disclosed, enabled or covered by the patent. Patent
monopoly is granted to an individual in exchange of the invention being made
public so that at the end of the patent term, the invention may belong to the
people at large who may derive benefits from it. Mere claims, without an
enabling disclosure, cannot be sustained. The patent must - as a quid pro quo
for the grant of monopoly - enable a Person of Ordinary Skill in the Art
(POSA) to work the invention as claimed. What is covered by a patent can only
be limited to what is disclosed in the patent. Such disclosure has to be such
as to enable a POSA to make the invention. If such disclosure is lacking, the
invention will not be covered by the patent. Coverage cannot go beyond
disclosure. Reliance is placed on Novartis AG v. Union of India 2013 (6) SCC
1, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corporation v.Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (2015) SCC
OnLine Del 8227 (DB).
36\. This suit patent does not teach, suggest, or motivate of the POSA to make
LH or LHH. It does not disclose or enable LH or LHH. Thus, suit patent cannot
cover LH or LHH and cannot be asserted to injunct sale of LH or LHH. The
defendants‟ LHH product cannot infringe the suit patent either. Claim 1 of the
suit patent discloses a Markush structure which covers thousands, if not
millions, of compounds. Lorcaserin is one such compound. Admittedly,
Lorcaserin is oil, which, in the context of pharmaceuticals, is difficult to
process, handle and formulate. Claim 38 generally covers all pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and hydrates of Lorcaserin. As per plaintiffs, at least 1620
salts of Lorcaserin can be made from the general CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 17
of 37 disclosures made in the suit patent. However, pertinently neither LH/LHH
salt nor the process for making LH/LHH salt has been disclosed in the suit
patent. Since the defendants‟ product is LHH and not Lorcaserin, and since the
suit patent does not cover LH / LHH, the defendants‟ product does not infringe
the suit patent. The suit patent discloses 31 acids as general examples of
acids that may be used to make "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" of
Lorcaserin. Unlike the Merck's (supra) case where certain acids were
specifically disclosed as „preferred acids‟ thereby providing necessary
motivation to POSA to make the salt, the plaintiffs have specifically and
categorically admitted before the Patent Office that LH / LHH is not taught,
suggested or motivated from the suit patent. When the Indian Patent Office
raised an objection during the prosecution of the Plaintiffs‟ application for
LHH (2296/KOLNP/2007) on the ground that LHH is obvious from the suit patent,
the plaintiffs‟ itself admitted that there is nothing in the suit patent that
teaches, motivates or suggests to a POSA to specifically select or make LH/LHH
from the general examples of acids disclosed in the suit patent. On the
contrary, the plaintiffs‟ own position is that the Lorcaserin disclosed in the
suit patent is distinct from LH, which is a specific salt form of a specific
compound that has been claimed by plaintiffs in a separate subsequent
application 311/KOLNP/2009.
37\. It is important to highlight that the plaintiffs are taking contradictory
stands - asserting before this Court that LH / LHH are covered and disclosed
in the suit patent, and specifically asserting before the Patent Office that
LH/LHH are distinct and different from Lorcaserin/suit patent and are not
taught, suggested or motivated by the suit patent. While in principle a single
product may be covered by different patents, a patentee cannot keep shifting
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 18 of 37 its stand in litigation before a Court and
in prosecution before the Patent Office. It is reiterated that the plaintiffs
have been changing their position as per their convenience - while on the one
hand they are asserting before this Court that the suit patent can be asserted
to injunct a LH or LHH, on the other hand they have taken a categorical
position in various replies to pre- grant oppositions and to FER before the
Patent Office that LH and LHH are not taught, suggested or motivated, and thus
not covered by the suit patent. Reliance is placed on Merck Sharp & Dohme
Corporation v. Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (2015) 223 DLT 454 and
F.Hoffman-La Roche v. Cipla , 2009 110 DRJ 452 (DB).
38\. The suit patent is invalid and liable to be revoked on various grounds.
The plaintiffs have asserted Claims 1, 2, 6, 7, 11, 12, 31, 36, 38, 39, 56 and
59 to 67 of the suit patent in the instant case to impose liability against
the defendants. In particular, it is the plaintiffs‟ case that Claims 38 and
39 of the suit patent claims Lorcaserin and all its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, solvates and hydrate, including LHH. All the said claims are
invalid and liable to be revoked in light of Sections 64(1)(d), 64(1)(e),
64(1)(f), 64(1)(k), 64(1)(j) and 64(1)(o).
39\. The suit patent is invalid in light of Section 3 (d) of Indian Patents
Act, 1970. Lorcaserin is a benzazepine derivative which acts as a modulator of
5HT2C receptors that affect feeding behavior by quenching the need to eat. It
is an anorexigenic (i.e. drug which causes loss of appetite) and is useful as
an anti-obesity drug. It is directed towards modulating 5HT2C receptors by
contacting the receptors with one or more compounds of the invention. There
are already products/inventions/compounds known in the prior art which are
also benzazepine derivatives invented for the same indication -
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 19 of 37
anorexigenics / treatment of obesity. The plaintiffs were aware that there
were already known products in the market invented for treatment of obesity/as
anorexigenics. Lorcaserin is nothing but a new form (chloro derivative or
positional isomer) of a known substance (specific benzazepine derivatives
exemplified in the prior patents) and is invalid in light of Section 3 (d)
(lack of enhanced therapeutic efficacy). Reliance is placed on Novartis AG v.
Union of India, (2013) 6 SCC 1.
40\. Credible Challenge to Validity of the Suit Patent The Suit Patent is
vulnerable to invalidation. The corresponding US equivalent of the Suit Patent
(being US6953787) is already under challenge by two companies in the US viz.
Lupin Ltd. / Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
The patented invention does not assert any therapeutic efficacy over the known
substances from the prior art, and is therefore not patentable by virtue of
Section 3(d) of the Patents Act, 1970. The plaintiffs have failed to establish
that Lorcaserin, which is merely a new form/derivative of, inter alia,
compounds exemplified in the foreign patents being GB324, CH194 and/or US639,
has any enhanced therapeutic efficacy over the said known compounds. The
patented invention/suit patent is further liable to be invalidated on account
of the following grounds:
> (i) It is not an invention and hence is liable to be revoked under Section
> 64(1)(d) read with Section 2(1)(j) of the Act.
> (ii) It lacks novelty/is anticipated in light of GB324 and CH194 and liable
> to be revoked under Section 64(1)(e) of the Act.
> (iii) It lacks inventive step/is obvious in light of GB324, CH194 and US639
> and liable to be revoked under Section 64(1)(f) of the Act.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 20 of 37
> (iv) It is not patentable as it is a mere admixture and is thus liable to be
> revoked under Section 64(1)(k) read with Section 3(e) of the Act.
> (v) It is not patentable as certain claims relate to method of treatment and
> are thus liable to be revoked under Section 64(1)(k) read with Section 3(i)
> of the Act.
> (vi) The claims under the Suit Patent as well as the leave to amend claims
> has been obtained by false representation or suggestion or fraud and is thus
> liable to be revoked under Sections 64(1)(j) and 64(1)(o) of the Act.
41\. The defendants are an extremely reputed pharmaceutical company. The
defendants‟ company was founded in 1984 by Dr. Anji Reddy, the recipient of
the Padhma Shri Award (in 2001) and the Padham Bhushan Award (in 2011). It is
one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in India. It currently has more
than 350 products in India, more than 300 products in emerging markets (which
covers about 26 countries), more than 180 products in the US, more than 80
products in Europe, and more than 40 products in Canada. In the last 5 years
alone, the defendant company has launched more than 100 products in India
(including licensed products). The philosophy of the company is to ensure that
affordable medicines are made available with convenience and ease so that
patients do not suffer either due to lack of availability of medicines or due
to high prices of innovator drugs. Towards this end, the company has
established 9 (nine) research centers globally and more than 1200 (one
thousand two hundred) research scientists working on various projects. In
financial year 2018 alone, the defendant company invested 13% of its sales
revenue i.e. approximately USD 281 million, in research and development
activities. As per the Biospectrum CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 21 of 37 Report
published in November, 2018, this is the highest investment in research and
development activities among Indian companies. Wherever the defendant company
believes that a product is covered by a patent; it has entered into a license
with the patent owner. For example, defendants have acquired the molecule
XP-23829 from XenoPort. This drug is a clinical stage new oral entity that has
the potential for the treatment of plaque psoriasis and may even be developed
for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The defendants have also acquired a
license with the plaintiff No.1 for its molecule E7777, which is an anti-
cancer agent. Defendant No.2 has also filed pre-grant oppositions to the 311
application on 29th October, 2018, 2296 application on 06th November, 2018 and
the 1208 application on 11th October, 2018. Thus, the defendants have the
highest respect for patent rights and are very conscious of ensuring that its
products do not infringe any patent.
42\. Defendant No.2 has undertaken considerable effort and expenses to conduct
clinical trials, and has obtained marketing approvals for their product, as
against the plaintiffs who are a foreign patent owner/foreign licensee and who
have failed, despite passage of more than 15½ years of the life of the patent
(almost 11 years from the date of grant of the suit patent) to even file for
regulatory approvals, let alone marketing approvals to work or commercially
launch the Lorcaserin free base or its enantiomers, or even LH or the
hemihydrate form of LH in India. For obtaining marketing approvals for India,
clinical trials have to be conducted on Indian patients. The plaintiffs‟
BELVIQ (containing LHH) was approved on 27th June, 2012 in USA. The
plaintiffs‟ claim to have conducted studies in 12,000 patients, however, not a
single Indian patient was enrolled in any of these clinical CS (COMM)
1169/2018 Page 22 of 37 trials. This clearly shows that the plaintiffs never
gave importance to making their product available to the Indian patients. On
the other hand, the defendants have undertaken considerable effort and
expenses to conduct clinical trials in India, and to obtain marketing
approvals for their product:
> (i) The defendants have been involved in developing their LHH product since
> 2013 till 2018.
> (ii) The defendants have conducted Phase-III clinical trial on 300 Indian
> patients and filed 2500+ pages of documents with the DCGI to obtain
> approvals.
> (iii) The defendants have spent about INR 2,00,00,000 (Rupees Two crores) in
> conducting its Phase-III Clinical trials and Bioequivalence studies and have
> additionally spent about INR 1,00,00,000 (Rupees One crore) in development
> of their product.
> (iv) The defendants have initiated process for approvals for clinical trials
> in 2016 and approvals for the trials were granted in November, 2016.
Assuming but not conceding that the defendants' product is within the scope of
the suit patent, it is submitted that the balance of convenience is in favour
of the defendants; the defendants have undertaken considerable effort and
expenses to conduct clinical trials and obtain marketing approvals for their
product; the defendants had initiated process for approvals for clinical
trials in 2016 and approvals for the trials were granted in November, 2016.
The plaintiffs, on the other hand, have failed to work the Suit Patent at all
or even file for regulatory approvals, despite passage of more than 15½ years
of the life of the suit patent or almost 10½ years from the date of grant of
the suit patent. The plaintiffs are merely sitting on their patent
registration, CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 23 of 37 thereby stifling further
innovation and depriving the Indian public of the critical and useful
properties of the suit patent. The plaintiffs have evidently registered the
suit patent to the very detriment of the Indian consumers, without any
intention to make available the benefits of the suit patent to the Indian
public. Assuming but not conceding that the defendants‟ product is within the
scope of the suit patent, it is submitted that grant of an injunction in
favour of the plaintiffs, would cause irreparable harm not only to the
defendants, but also to the concerned patient pool in India. Admittedly, the
plaintiffs have not commercially worked the suit patent in India at all, let
alone make it available to satisfy the reasonable requirements of the Indian
public or at reasonably affordable prices. Further, the plaintiffs own product
as available in other countries is priced at roughly INR 312/- per tablet,
whereas the defendants‟ product is likely to be priced around INR 29/- per
tablet. Furthermore, per the plaintiffs‟ admission, the alleged loss that will
be caused to them is that of loss of "substantial sales" and "goodwill and
reputation". It is submitted that the plaintiffs have no commercial presence
or sales in respect of the suit patent in India, whatsoever. Thus, there can
be no loss that cannot be compensated.
43\. The plaintiffs have obtained a patent monopoly to purportedly protect
their rights but have miserably failed in their corresponding duties and
obligations imposed by the Patents Act to satisfy the reasonable requirements
of the Indian public, or to make available the patented invention to the
Indian public or work the patented invention in India within a reasonable time
of the grant of the patent.
44\. The loss and harm to public interest, in light of patients of obesity
being deprived of access to medicines as a result of the plaintiffs‟ non-
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 24 of 37
working and lack of making availability the patented invention and the
possible injunction, is incalculable. No final judgment will be able to
restitute and compensate such patients. In cases involving pharmaceutical
products, particularly life-saving drugs, public interest plays a major factor
in deciding grant or rejection of interim relief. As per the plaintiffs own
assertion, obesity is a life threatening disorder. Obesity is a rising health
concern in India, wherein around 153 million individuals suffer from abdominal
obesity and about 135 million individuals suffer from generalized obesity. In
fact, as of 2016, India was in the top five most obese countries in the world.
Obesity is a major risk factor for Type-II diabetes, hypertension, heart
attack, stroke and certain forms of cancer. Thus, there is evident public
interest involved herein that far outweighs the Plaintiffs‟ request for
relief. Public interest demands that a life-saving drug like the patented
invention ought to be made available to the largest number of people and at
affordable prices. The plaintiffs ought not to be permitted to restrain the
manufacture and sale of such a life-saving drug under the garb of the suit
patent, which the plaintiff anyways itself is not working in India. The public
interest in providing access to a life-saving drug at low cost clearly
outweighs the public interest in granting a monopoly to the plaintiffs over
the said drug.
45\. Since the plaintiffs have not made available the patented invention or
even worked the patent in India till date, there is no question of any harm,
let alone any irreparable harm being caused to them. The alleged loss and
irreparable harm that would be caused to the plaintiffs is that of substantial
sales and revenue and profits, which is clearly calculable and determinable.
In the event, the plaintiffs succeed in the instant case, the loss of sales or
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 25 of 37 revenue or profit can clearly be compensated
based on the defendant No.2‟s sales records.
46\. The plaintiffs have obtained marketing approvals in the US for their
product „BELVIQ‟, which purportedly contains Lorcaserin, as far back as 27th
June, 2012 and commercially launched it in the US in June 2013. Admittedly,
plaintiff No.2 entered into a marketing and supply agreement with the
plaintiff No.1 as far back as November, 2013, which became an exclusive
license arrangement in December, 2016. However, it is evident that not only
did the plaintiffs not take any steps, if at all, till November, 2013 to even
consider working the suit patent in India, but it is also evident that even
after the exclusive rights in the suit patent were acquired by the plaintiff
No.1, no steps have been taken till date to work out and exploit the suit
patent in India. The plaintiffs cannot be permitted to sit on a patent
monopoly and refuse to let the Indian public have the benefit of the patented
invention, particularly at reasonably affordable prices. The plaintiff is a
squatter of patents. The plaintiffs have asserted that over 65 countries have
granted patents for invention claimed in the suit patent. However, despite
having patents in more than 65 countries, the plaintiffs have received
regulatory approvals in only six countries. Further, out of these six
countries, the plaintiffs have launched only in four countries. It has not yet
launched in two countries, despite obtaining approvals more than 2 years ago.
This clearly establishes that the plaintiff is a squatter of patent who only
believes in getting patents but does not intend to exercise them or work them
at all in more than 90% of the jurisdictions where it has obtained a patent.
47\. The plaintiffs have delayed in approaching this Court. The information
about defendants‟ interest in LHH has been in the public domain CS (COMM)
1169/2018 Page 26 of 37 since November/December 2016. Yet, the plaintiffs
chose to wait for 2 years till the completion of the clinical trials and grant
of approvals to the defendants to try and stifle the defendants‟ launch at the
last moment.
48\. The submission of the defendants on the suggestion of withdrawal of
defendants‟ products if or when plaintiffs start marketing their product in
India is that LHH is a long-term therapy and once the patients start taking
our medicine, withdrawing the medicine not only impacts the credibility of
defendants but also has negative psychological impact on the patients. Obesity
is a major risk factor for Type-II diabetes, Hypertension, Heart attack,
Stroke and some forms of cancer. In India, about 15.3 crores people have
abdominal obesity and 13.5 crores people have generalized obesity. There is
also a significant increase in the prevalence of obesity in India. In an
overweight or obese population, modest weight loss of 5%-10% can improve
existing comorbid conditions or reduce the risk of developing new comorbid
conditions, including type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Due to the
lack of effective and safe options, a significant proportion of diagnosed
obese patients are not prescribed a pharmacotherapy option. According to IMS
Rx data, less than 10% of patients diagnosed with obesity are prescribed
Orlistat to treat obesity, primarily due to side effects of Orlistat (Oily
spotting on underwear; Fatty or oily stool; Urgent bowel movements). Several
anti-obesity drugs introduced in India like Fenfluramine (1998);
Dexfenfluramine (1998); Sibutramine (2011); Rimonabant (2009), have
subsequently been withdrawn due to safety concerns (Year in brackets is DCGI
banned year). Rimonabant was approved by DCGI in 2007 and banned in 2009
(suicidal tendencies). There is an unmet need of a safe and effective
pharmaco-therapeutic agent in the CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 27 of 37 treatment
of patients with obesity to improve outcomes. The defendants have already
spent more than five years to bring LHH product to Indian patients. The
defendants have spent considerable amount of time, energy & money on
development, clinical trials & approval of LHH for India. Now marketing of the
product would require further efforts, including detailing to top
cardiologist, endocrinologist, dieticians and monitoring the patient response.
'Good Health‟ is always the defendants‟ goal. The defendants see medicines not
just as molecules, but as means to help patients regain their health. As a
leader in the pharmaceutical industry, defendants realize that they have the
ethical and moral imperative to ensure good health that can be delivered to
those who need it, and to promote wellness among them. Helping patients manage
disease better is one of the defendants‟ goals. They look at business as an
opportunity to serve the patients. Thus, defendants would never agree to
launch a product for short-term gains if it has negative repercussion on
patients.
Examination of defendants under Section 165 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872\.
49\. During the course of hearing dated 21st December, 2018 and 14th January,
2019, this Court examined the officers of the defendants on oath in exercise
of the power under Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act. The statements of
the officers recorded by this Court are relevant and are reproduced herein
below:-
> (i) Statement of Girish Parhate, S/o Sh. Sadashiv Parhate, aged 40 years,
> R/o D0601, Sunway Opus Grand Neville, 3A, Sy.No.162 P, 164, Ameenpur,
> Hyderabad - 502032:
> "I am the Director (Regulatory Affairs) of the defendant company and I am
> briefly aware of this case. I am not aware CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 28 of 37
> who took the decision to launch the medicine named Lorcaserin Hydrochloride
> Hemihydrate. I am not aware when the decision was taken. I became aware in
> July 2016 when I was instructed to apply for regulatory permissions from the
> competent authorities. There is an internal committee of the defendant
> headed by Business Strategic Head to take a decision to launch a medicine.
> Ms.Poonam Raghuvanshi is the head of the Patent Department of the defendant
> company which examines whether medicine to be launched violates patent of
> any company. I am aware that the plaintiff has got a patent. I am
> technically not aware about the difference between the plaintiff‟s medicine
> and the defendants‟ medicine. I am not involved in the development of the
> medicine and cannot answer how much expenditure has been incurred in
> developing this medicine. I am also not aware about the number of cases in
> which defendants are involved relating to the violation of patents."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> (ii) Statement of, Smitha Ramdas, W/o Mr.Ramdas Manakkote, aged 42 years,
> R/o F1602, Aparna Sarovar, Nallagandla, Hyderabad:
> "I am working as a Director (Intellectual Properties) in the defendant
> company. An Internal Committee of the defendant took the decision to launch
> this medicine. My senior is member of that Committee. My senior Ms.Poonam
> Raghuvanshi is the member of the Committee and I had given inputs to her in
> this regard. The decision to manufacture this medicine was taken in the year
> 2015. The defendant company was well aware that the plaintiff has got a
> patent in respect of the chemical substance. The chemical substance of the
> plaintiff‟s medicine and the defendants‟ medicine are same but according to
> us the patent of the plaintiff does not contain Lorcaserin Hydrochloride
> Hemihydrate. We examined the patent of the plaintiff before taking this
> decision. We conducted the trials on the patients for about 1½ years from
> 2016 onwards with respect to the medicine in question. I am not involved in
> the protocol of the clinical trials and cannot give the amounts spent on the
> clinical trials.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 29 of 37
> The defendant company has launched a medicine named Ticagrelor which
> according to the defendant company does not violate the patent of Astra
> Zeneca. M/s. Astra Zeneca has filed a case against the defendant for
> violation of the patent. There is an injunction order in that case. I can
> produce the copy of the order. There are five cases relating to patent in
> which the defendant company is a party. I can produce the list of those five
> cases and also copies of the relevant orders. The defendant company‟s policy
> is to examine the patent of a medicine and to launch the medicine if the
> patent of the patentee is not valid."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> (iii) Statement of Girish Parhate, S/o Sh. Sadashiv Parhate, aged about 40
> years, R/o D0601, Sunway Opus Grand Neville, 3A, Sy. No. 162 P, 164,,
> Ameenpur, Hyderabad-502032:
> "I am the Director of the defendant for Indian Drug Regulations Affairs of
> the defendant company since December, 2015\. I am not aware who took the
> decision to develop the medicine named Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate
> (herein after referred as „LHH‟).
> In June 2016, I was instructed by Business Strategic Unit of the defendant
> to apply for grant of permission for manufacture and marketing of LHH where
> upon I prepared and submitted an application dated 29th June, 2016 before
> the Drugs Controller General of India, Directorate General of Health
> Services. I produce the copy of the application dated 29th June, 2016 which
> is marked as Ex.C1.
> Q.1 In para 3 of the application (Ex.C1) you have stated that the defendant
> has developed the drugs substance LHH. Please tell who developed this drug
> substance and when was it developed?
> Ans. The drug substance LHH was developed by the Research Development Unit
> of the defendant during the period 2013 to 2016\.
> Q.2 Did you disclose to the Drug Controller that the plaintiff already has a
> patent on this salt?
> Ans. I did not disclose in the application that the plaintiff is holding the
> patent in respect of the drug substance because CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 30
> of 37 there is no provision for such disclosure in the application form.
> Earlier, there was a column in the application form to disclose the patent
> but the same was removed in the format of the application and therefore such
> disclosure was not made.
> The drug substance LHH is different from the drug substance in respect of
> which the plaintiff is having patent. I can produce the earlier form showing
> the requirement of the patent disclosure as well as the amended format in
> which the said requirement was omitted. However, I am not technical
> qualified to tell the difference. I can produce the documents relating to
> the drug substance namely LHH by the defendant.
> The 31st Subject Experts Committee (SEC)-
> Endocrinology and Metabolisim in its meeting dated 08th November, 2016
> permitted the defendant to carry on phase III Clinical Trial. The copy of
> the approval of the SEC is marked as Ex.C2.
> On 06th January, 2017, the defendant received the NOC from the DGHS for
> conducting Clinical Trial of LHH. The copy of the NOC dated 06th January,
> 2017 is marked as Ex.C3.
> On 24th May, 2017, we informed to Drugs Controller General of India having
> completed Bio equivalence study of LHH. The copy of the reported dated 24th
> May, 2017 is marked as Ex.C4.
> Q.3 Did you ever inform the Drug Controller of the plaintiff‟s patent?
> Ans. I need to check upto the answer this question.
> (Deferred for lunch break) Examination of Mr.Girish Parhate continued after
> lunch break.
> I have verified from the records with respect to the disclosure of the
> plaintiff‟s patent. I say that the defendant disclosed in their application
> dated 29th June, 2016 that the drug in question is covered by the
> plaintiff‟s patent No.IN 215528\. I produce the copy of the application
> dated 29 th June, 2016 in which the relevant disclosure is made in item 8 of
> Form
> 44\. The copy of the complete application dated 29 th June, 2016 CS (COMM)
> 1169/2018 Page 31 of 37 is marked as Ex.C-4 on which item 8 of Form 44 is
> marked as Mark-A (Copy of the application dated 29th June, 2016 handed over
> earlier and marked as Ex.C-1 was without the Form 44 which has now been
> furnished).
> I produce the notification dated 03rd April, 2017 whereby item 8 of Form 44
> of the Drug and Cosmetic Rules, 1945 was omitted and therefore, no
> information relating to the patent of any drug is required to be disclosed
> by a pharmaceutical company. The notification dated 03rd April, 2017 is
> marked as Ex.C-5."
> (Emphasis supplied) Findings
50\. The plaintiffs have made out a strong prima facie case for grant of
interim injunction against the defendants for the reasons given hereunder:-
50.1 Plaintiff No.2 claims to have invented a man-made molecule named
Lorcaserin around the year 2001. The plaintiff further claims to have
researched and conducted clinical trials and studies for the next eight years
on over 8,000 patients; Phase-III studies were concluded in 2010; cardio
vascular trials were concluded in 2018 on over 12,000 patients to establish
the safety of Lorcaserin; Lorcaserin has been studied on over 20,000 patients
over the last 15 years and almost 18 years approximately one billion dollars
have been spent in developing Lorcaserin molecule and in conducting clinical
trials to commercialize the same. 50.2 Plaintiff no.2 obtained patents in over
65 jurisdictions and the said patents have not been revoked in any country.
Marketing approvals have been granted in six countries namely USA, South
Korea, Taiwan, Israel, Brazil and Mexico. In 2006, WHO recognized Lorcaserin
to be a new molecule. From 2010 to 2018, the plaintiff carried out the
mandatory requirements of US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA).
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 32 of 37
50.3 Plaintiff No.2 applied for patent in India on 23rd September, 2004 in
pursuance to which patent No.215528 was granted on 27th February, 2008 for the
period of 20 years from 11th April, 2003 till 10th April, 2023. There were no
pre-grant oppositions and no post-grant oppositions. The suit patent has
existed undisturbed on the register for more than 10 years. 50.4 The
plaintiffs have taken preparatory steps to commercialize the LHH product in
India and is expecting final regulatory approvals. 50.5 The plaintiffs‟ patent
No.215528 covers Lorcaserin and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
including LHH. Claims 38 and 39 specifically claim Lorcaserin and all its
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and hydrates.
50.6 The defendants have admitted in the statement dated 14 th January, 2019
of Mr. Girish Parhate, Director (Regulatory Affairs) of the defendant that
their drug is covered by the plaintiffs‟ patent. The relevant portion of the
statement is as under:
> "I say that the defendant disclosed in their application dated 29th June,
> 2016 that the drug in question is covered by the plaintiffs‟ patent No. IN
> 215528".
(Emphasis Supplied) 50.7 The defendants, in their US patent application
2014/0187538A1 admitted that the PCT application corresponding to the suit
patent i.e. WO2003/086306 discloses Lorcaserin.
50.8 In the pre-grant opposition filed by the defendants against the
plaintiffs‟ pending Indian Patent Application No. 311/KOLNP/2009 for LHH, the
defendants admitted that in PCT application WO2003/086306, CS (COMM) 1169/2018
Page 33 of 37 (suit patent) there is explicit and unambiguous disclosure of
hydrochloride salt of Lorcaserin and method of preparing thereof.
50.9 With respect to the defendants‟ objection that the plaintiffs have made
admissions that the plaintiffs‟ patent does not disclose LHH in reply to
oppositions filed by a third party against the plaintiffs‟ subsequent patent
applications concerning LHH, this Court is satisfied with the plaintiffs‟
explanation that the suit patent is in the nature of an originating/genus
patent and the various subsequent patent applications are for improvement/
selection inventions, which specifically disclose and claim a particular
„species‟ of the genus patent, i.e. the hydrochloride hemihydrate form. Merely
because the plaintiffs have applied for a patent separately for a specific
species of the genus, it does not mean that the species patent cannot be
granted or that the species patent would not fall within the coverage of the
genus patent (i.e. the suit patent in the present case). Grant of a subsequent
patent, which is an improvement invention, does not take the said forms out of
the first/basic patent, which in the present case is the suit patent.
50.10 The plaintiffs have strongly relied upon the admissions of the
defendants in the statement made before this Court on 22nd December, 2018 &
14th January, 2019 and the US patent application referred in para 11 above
whereas the defendants have strongly relied upon the plaintiffs‟ admission
made in the reply dated 15th January, 2018 and 16th April, 2018. The
plaintiffs have satisfactorily explained the aforesaid admissions referred to
by the defendants whereas this Court is not satisfied with the explanation of
the defendants to their admissions. The admissions of the defendants are
sufficient to grant the injunction against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 34 of 37
50.11 With respect to the defendants‟ contention that the plaintiffs have not
worked out the suit patent in India; the defendants had a remedy to seek a
compulsory License under Sections 83 and 84 of the Patents Act, 1970. However,
the defendants, instead of applying for either a voluntary license or a
compulsory license, decided to go ahead on their own volition and seek a
marketing approval. The non-working of a patent particularly for a
pharmaceutical product cannot have a bearing on the rights of a patentee under
Section 48 of the Patents Act, 1970. Reference be made to Cipla v. Novartis;
2017 (Supra).
50.12 Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers; (Supra) relied upon by the
defendants related to a special kind of loom which was vital for the textile
industry of the country and which would affect the economy of the country,
thereby seriously affecting the market and economy. The Court, in the said
case, found that if the plea for injunction was accepted then it would
seriously affect the market and economy conditions in our country inasmuch as
it would enable a mechanical device invented abroad (or in India) to be
registered in India and kept unused thereby excluding public of its benefit
and at the same time preclude the similar device being produced or used in our
market or industry. In that case, the defendants‟ products were already out in
the market. Moreover, this case is prior to 2005 and there have been
significant changes in the compulsory licensing regime under Sections 83 and
84 of the Patents Act, as a result of the amendment to the Patents Act in
2005\.
50.13 The defendants‟ objections to the validity of the suit patent under
Section 3(d) as well as Section 64(1)(d), 64(1)(e), 64(1)(f), 64(1)(j), CS
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 35 of 37 64(1)(k), 64(1) (o) read with Section 2(1)(j),
3(e) and 3(i) of the Patents Act cannot be decided without recording of
evidence.
51\. The balance of convenience for the grant of interim injunction lies in
favour of the plaintiffs as the defendants have evidently not "cleared the
way" before going ahead with obtaining a marketing approval for launch of the
infringing drug. The defendants were aware that there may be a possible
challenge to its product, but they chose to go ahead to seek the marketing
approvals without first invoking revocation proceedings or attempting to
obtain a licensee. Where litigation is bound to ensue if the defendants
introduce their product, the defendants could have avoided the interlocutory
injunction if they had cleared the way first. Reference be made to Merck v.
Glenmark; 2015 (63) PTC 257 [Del][DB].
52\. The plaintiffs shall suffer irreparably if the injunction is not granted.
On the other hand, the defendants obtained manufacturing approval on 22nd
October, 2018 and have not commenced the manufacturing of the infringing
product. If the defendants are permitted to market its product pending trial,
the loss to the plaintiffs cannot be compensated in terms of the money.
53\. The Court, at the interim stage, has to take a prima facie view of the
matter. In that view of the matter, the dissection and analysis of all the
submissions is not warranted at this stage.
Conclusion
54\. In the facts and circumstances of this case, the application is allowed
and the defendants are restrained from making, using, selling, distributing,
advertising, exporting, offering for sale, and in any other manner, directly
or indirectly dealing in any product that infringes the claimed subject matter
of the Plaintiffs‟ Indian Patent No.215528 or any of the claims thereof CS
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
CS(COMM) 1169/2018
57\. List before the Regular Bench as per roster on 04th July, 2019.
J.R. MIDHA, J.
MAY 06, 2019 ds/dk CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 37 of 37
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                 JUDGMENT
I.A. 13934/2018
1\. The plaintiffs have instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling, distributing,
exporting or offering for sale of any product that infringes the plaintiffs‟
patent No. 215528 including Lorcaserin or any of its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts including Lorcaserin Hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as „LH‟) and Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate (hereinafter referred to as
„LHH‟). The plaintiffs are also seeking damages, accounts and costs from the
defendants. In I.A. 13934/2018, the plaintiffs are seeking interim injunction
against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 1 of 37
2\. The defendants appeared before this Court on the very first date i.e. 08th
October, 2018 to oppose the injunction. The relevant portion of the order
dated 08th October, 2018 is reproduced hereunder:
> "5. Issue notice. Learned counsel for the defendant accepts notice.
> 6\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses for an interim injunction
> against the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
> defendant has not yet launched their product in India.
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                 JUDGMENT
I.A. 13934/2018
1\. The plaintiffs have instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling, distributing,
exporting or offering for sale of any product that infringes the plaintiffs‟
patent No. 215528 including Lorcaserin or any of its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts including Lorcaserin Hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as „LH‟) and Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate (hereinafter referred to as
„LHH‟). The plaintiffs are also seeking damages, accounts and costs from the
defendants. In I.A. 13934/2018, the plaintiffs are seeking interim injunction
against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 1 of 37
2\. The defendants appeared before this Court on the very first date i.e. 08th
October, 2018 to oppose the injunction. The relevant portion of the order
dated 08th October, 2018 is reproduced hereunder:
> "5. Issue notice. Learned counsel for the defendant accepts notice.
> 6\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses for an interim injunction
> against the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
> defendant has not yet launched their product in India.
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                 JUDGMENT
I.A. 13934/2018
1\. The plaintiffs have instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling, distributing,
exporting or offering for sale of any product that infringes the plaintiffs‟
patent No. 215528 including Lorcaserin or any of its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts including Lorcaserin Hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as „LH‟) and Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate (hereinafter referred to as
„LHH‟). The plaintiffs are also seeking damages, accounts and costs from the
defendants. In I.A. 13934/2018, the plaintiffs are seeking interim injunction
against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 1 of 37
2\. The defendants appeared before this Court on the very first date i.e. 08th
October, 2018 to oppose the injunction. The relevant portion of the order
dated 08th October, 2018 is reproduced hereunder:
> "5. Issue notice. Learned counsel for the defendant accepts notice.
> 6\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses for an interim injunction
> against the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
> defendant has not yet launched their product in India.
> 7\. Learned counsel for the defendant submits that the defendants have
> received the marketing approval and the product is likely to be launched in
> January, 2019. Learned counsel for the defendant, however, submits that
> plaintiff is not entitled to injunction as the plaintiff has not worked out
> their patent in India. Reliance is placed on Division Bench judgment of this
> Court in Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers 1996 (37) DRJ (DB).
> 8\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the aforesaid judgment
> would not help the defendants who have not yet launched their product in
> India. Reliance is placed on the order dated 14th February, 2017 in Bayer
> Intellectual Property GMBH v. BDR Pharmaceuticals International Pvt. Ltd.
> 9\. Since the defendants have not yet launched their product which is likely
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
                                 JUDGMENT
I.A. 13934/2018
1\. The plaintiffs have instituted this suit for permanent injunction for
restraining the defendants from manufacturing, selling, distributing,
exporting or offering for sale of any product that infringes the plaintiffs‟
patent No. 215528 including Lorcaserin or any of its pharmaceutically
acceptable salts including Lorcaserin Hydrochloride (hereinafter referred to
as „LH‟) and Lorcaserin Hydrochloride Hemihydrate (hereinafter referred to as
„LHH‟). The plaintiffs are also seeking damages, accounts and costs from the
defendants. In I.A. 13934/2018, the plaintiffs are seeking interim injunction
against the defendants.
CS (COMM) 1169/2018 Page 1 of 37
2\. The defendants appeared before this Court on the very first date i.e. 08th
October, 2018 to oppose the injunction. The relevant portion of the order
dated 08th October, 2018 is reproduced hereunder:
> "5. Issue notice. Learned counsel for the defendant accepts notice.
> 6\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses for an interim injunction
> against the defendants. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
> defendant has not yet launched their product in India.
> 7\. Learned counsel for the defendant submits that the defendants have
> received the marketing approval and the product is likely to be launched in
> January, 2019. Learned counsel for the defendant, however, submits that
> plaintiff is not entitled to injunction as the plaintiff has not worked out
> their patent in India. Reliance is placed on Division Bench judgment of this
> Court in Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers 1996 (37) DRJ (DB).
> 8\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the aforesaid judgment
> would not help the defendants who have not yet launched their product in
> India. Reliance is placed on the order dated 14th February, 2017 in Bayer
> Intellectual Property GMBH v. BDR Pharmaceuticals International Pvt. Ltd.
> 9\. Since the defendants have not yet launched their product which is likely
(COMM) 1169/2018 Page 36 of 37 including Lorcaserin or Lorcaserin
Hydrochloride, LHH and any forms thereof till the disposal of the suit.
55\. The plaintiffs are entitled to the costs from the defendants. However,
the order as to quantum of costs is deferred till the final decision of this
suit. Both the parties are directed to submit the actual cost incurred by
them. The parties are also directed to submit their estimate of future cost
before the commencement of trial so that the parties shall have notice of
actual cost that the other side estimate would be incurring in the course of
litigation and the parties have an opportunity to take appropriate decision as
to manner in which to conduct the litigation. Greater transparency about cost
will promote access to justice. This process shall also keep the cost in check
and potentially eliminate the need for a detailed assessment at the end as
well as dispute as to the amount of the actual cost.
56\. The observations made hereinabove are prima facie for the purpose of
deciding this application and shall not constitute any expression of final
opinion on the merits of this case.
