Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Ahmedabad
Dy.Cit, Intl. Taxn.-1, A'Bad Now ... vs Bombardier Transportation India ... on
3 January, 2017
                                                                                  ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                            Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                         Page 1 of 16
                      IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                         AHMEDABAD "I" BENCH, AHMEDABAD
                    [Coram: Pramod Kumar AM and S S Godara JM]
                                   ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                 Assessment Year: 2013-14
    Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax
    International Taxation, Baroda.                           ..............................Appellant
    Vs.
    Bombardier Transportation India Pvt. Ltd.                 ............................Respondent
    Plot No.724, Phase-III, GIDC Savli,
    Post: Manjusar, Vadodara - 391 775.
    [PAN - AAACA 5584 C]
    Appearances by:
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
    Kanchal Kaushal, Piyush Chawla and Dhaval Trivedi for the respondent
    Date of concluding the hearing          :       04.10.2016
    Date of pronouncing the order           :       03.01.2017
                                   O    R       D     E   R
    Per Pramod Kumar AM:
    1.     By way of this appeal, the Assessing Officer has challenged correctness of the
    order dated 21.12.2015, passed by the learned CIT(A)-13, Ahmedabad, in the matter of
    assessment under section 201(1) & 201(1A) r..w.s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for
    the assessment year 2013-14.
    2.    Ground no. 1 is general in nature and does not call for any specific judication by
    us.
    3.    In ground no. 2, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
          The learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment
          of Rs.9,19,96,649/- made towards various IT support services received from
          the Holding Company and associated enterprises of the group concerns are
          not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS).
    4.     So far as this grievance of the assessee is concerned, the relevant material facts
    are like this. The assessee before us is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bombardier
                                                                                    ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                             Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                                Page 2 of 16
    Transportation (Holdings) Singapore Pte Ltd, a part of Bombardier Group, and is
    engaged in the business of manufacturing and supply of rail transportation system, which
    includes traction, auxiliary converters, vacuum circuit breakers, control electronics,
    signaling equipment, coaches and bogies for metro trains. During the course of scrutiny
    of TDS returns, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has made payments,
    aggregating to Rs 9,19,96,649 to Bombardier Transportation Canada Inc (BTCI, in
    short). The details of these payments are as follows:
    Service Units Text    (USD)         (INR)      TDS                Nature of service
                                                           ERP application used at Maneja site of
                                                           the company      by    employees     in
     Finance System -     48,711      2,647,306     NO     Finance department to do accounting
          Maneja                                           and    reporting    of   all  financial
                                                           transactions
                                                           Common standard            HR platform
                                                           used throughout BT, which enables
                                                           employees and managers to modify
                                                           their     personnel      data     through
                                                           employee self-service (ESS) and
                                                           manager self-service (MSS). It is the
                                                           sole HR IT database that feeds all
                                                           other systems in 'HR. Additionally, HR
                                                           Conned defines clear points of
                                                           contacts and       reduces     interfaces.
        HR Connect        45,321      2,463,072     NO     This reduces the HR workload
                                                           (reduces uncertainties      to    discuss
                                                           due      to     common access           to
                                                           standardized         data,       common
                                                           processes to provide consistent HR
                                                           services, efficient data management,
                                                           even     clearer definition of roles and
                                                           responsibilities)    and    thus     frees
                                                           resources and provides data for a
                                                           faster and better HR service.
                                                           Intens is a 3-tier application framework
                                                           used to do scientific calculations in the
          Intens           4,716      256,283       NO     fields of engineering.
                                                           Kronos is a Time and Attendance
                                                           system used to record time and
                                                           attendance of all employees of the
                                                           company. In oilier words in conjunction
                                                           with "time clocks" all blue and white
                                                           collar employees in the company can
                                                           record their attendance time into a
                                                           timesheet by using this equipment.
       Kronos India       123,436     6,708,397     NO     This is the new version resulting from
                                                           the consolidation of '3 previous
                                                           instances and will 'be the basis for
                                                           future deployments.
                                                           Lotus Notes server used by employees
                                                           in the Locomotives Division of the
                                                           company to communicate with various
                                                           stakeholders and to receive and send
                                                           e-mails both    internally within the
                                                           company and also to external people
    LN DB Locomotives -   89,324      4,854,528     NO     and also to access, as and when
      Freight Division                                     required, information stored on the
                                                           server database.
                                                           Lotus Notes server used by employees
                                                           in the Mainline     /      Passenger
                                                           Division    of    the company      to
                                                           communicate         with      various
                                                           stakeholders and to receive and send
                                                                              ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                       Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                          Page 3 of 16
                                                    e-mails both internally within the
                                                    company and also to external people
                                                    and also lo access, as and when
                                                    required, information stored on the
     LN DB Mainline      140,759   7,649,869   NO   server database
        Division
                                                    Lotus Notes server used by employees
                                                    in the Rail Control Solutions (RCS)
    LN DB Rail Control                              Division     of    the   company    to
    Solutions-Division                              communicate with various stakeholders
                                                    and to receive and send e-m ails both
                                                    internally within the company and also
                         10,945    594,850     NO   to external people and also to access,
                                                    as and when required, information
                                                    stored on the server database
                                                    It is Customer Claim Managem ent tool /
                                                    database used by employees in the
                                                    Mainline Division, of the company vi/..
                                                    as and when any claim is filed by any
                                                    customer      against     the company,
                                                    employees        working      in    project
         LOGOS            7,912    429,995     NO   management function of the mainline
                                                    division have to record and enter the
                                                    details of that claim in this database.
                                                    It is a Enterprise Asset Managem ent
                                                    solution that has unique industry
                                                    solutions    for   various    business
                                                    processes. This flexible solution
      Maximo - DB        28,511    1,549,481   NO   provides a single platform to deliver
       MAXPPC                                       asset lifecycle and maintenance
                                                    management from end-to-end across
                                                    the enterprise.. Consisting of six core
                                                    modules -- Materials, Procurement,
                                                    Asset, Work, Service and Contract,
                                                    Maximo Asset Management-provides a
                                                    comprehensive answer for asset
                                                    management
       Other global        40       2,154
       adjustments
    PPC Serialisation      54       2,940           Bar Coding application used to check
                                                    and control the inventory
                                                    Project Management application, used
                                                    to keep and archieve all records and
                                                    database separately for each custom er
                                                    project/ contract pertaining to all
                                                    divisions of the company other than
                                                    RCS. All records and documents
                                                    relating to each project viz. custom er
                                                    agreement, financial information, all
                                                    customer correspondences, custom er
                                                    claims/ disputes, minutes of the
          PPRS           25,955    1,410,564   NO   meetings, etc. are archieved and kept
                                                    in this database for future reference
                                                    purpose
                                                    Project Management application used
                                                    to keep and archieve all records and
       P...... China          1,375     74,716     NO   database separately for each custom er
                                                    project/contract in the RCS division of
                                                    the company.
                                                    It is a Version Control tool, a
                                                    Change Management         tool    and
                                                    a   Requirement Package used as
                                                    Configuration   Tool in Engineering,
                                                    Software       development        and
                                                    maintenance for the software that -
                                                    support all the products. Used in the
                                                                                 ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                          Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                             Page 4 of 16
                                                       Field support as well as       in    new
                                                       products      development. Engineers
    PVCS - Vaesteras       56,390    3,064,656    NO   use it from their desktops and from
                                                       remote connections, all           around
                                                       the world for all software related work
                                                       products (releases-working source
                                                       files).
        QT - India          2,451     133,185     NO   Programming Tool
                                                       SAP Sprint is a     transfer program
                                                       used to print output from a rem ote
      SAP - SPRINT          9,363     508,880     NO   location using a Microsoft Windows
                                                       operating system
                                                       Finance Global consolidation system
                                                       used by-employees       in     Finance
                                                       department      of  the company for
                                                       reporting financial     results of the
    SAP Global FORE        26,519    1,441,245    NO   company and also to maintain contract
                                                       wise financial summary viz. sales, cost
                                                       gross margin, overheads, Net margin,
                                                       etc.
      VCM Template         221,003   12,010,931   NO   SAP Value Change            Managem ent
        Solution                                       (VCM) system for Asia
                                                       Customer Relationship Management./
                                                       Sales system to identify, handle
                                                       and       report possible opportunities/
                                                       leads in the market, enter detailed
       Sales Force         14,798     804,215     NO   information      about customer and
                                                       requirements of the custom er and other
                                                       identified Key Performance Indicators
                                                       ECAD          Application;      electrical
                                                       engineering software; software suite
                                                       that offers solutions for     numerous
                                                       industries (among others machinery
        E3 - Global        20,286    1,102,485    NO   and              plant      engineering,
                                                       equipment       cabling,     autom otive,
                                                       railways, special vehicles)
                                                       Bar Coding application for PPC Maneja
                                                       site of     the    company      used     to
        Bar Coding          9,634     523,555     NO   do        inventory management         viz.
                                                       keep record of all the inventory of
                                                       raw material, finished goods, etc. at
                                                       the site. It is an efficient way to keep a
                                                       check and control on the inventory in
                                                       the site.
                                                       HR Payroll    System    for   India -
                                                       containing data base of all employees
     Payroll System -      14,323     778,400     NO   of the company .and used to prepare
          India                                        the monthly payroll of all Indian
                                                       employees
                                                       MS Project Server 2010 and project
                                                       professional managed by GPM MS
     PRO BT Global         22,773    1,237,637    NO   Project Server 2010 and project
                                                       professional
    Visual Factory India   21,624    1,175,186    NO   Tool to supervise manufacturing
                                                       operations at Savli Site
      Office Support       2,244      121,931     NO   Office support viz. PDF writer etc.
    EB PPC Vaesteras       10,059     546,661     NO   Database for Mainline division of
                                                       the company      used   for    storing
                                                       engineering     related    documents
                                                       between the divisions
                                                                                        ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                                 Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                                   Page 5 of 16
    Depreciation - 2011-     477          25,929         NO     Depreciation of Project managem ent
    8947 Segregation of                                         application
    Depreciation - 2012-      55           3,002         NO     Depreciation of Project managem ent
    4062 EPPM Template                                          application
             F
                                                                Product Data Management (PDM)
                                                                tool PDM enhancements & bug fixing
                                                                for PDM LAE               division
                                                                Project
                                                                Scope;
                                                                •  Fit Gap and Blueprint             for
                                                                PDM stabilization / optimisation
                                                                • Deployment of template functionalities
                                                                as agreed      between       Business
                                                                and    IS
                                                                • Change management for the
                                                                adaptation to the template processes
                                                                • Template localization based on legal
                                                                or contractual requirements
                                                                •   Data    migration   from legacy
      PDM Metaphase         11,603        630,593        NO     applications to PDM (if applicable)
                                                                •   Post             go         live
                                                                support
                                                                •   Change Management
                                                                 • Decommissioning of      the legacy
                                                                system (if: applicable)
                                                                Internal   BT     cost  viz. salaries,
                                                                other overheads, etc. of employees
       Project Costs       653,346       35,507,617      NO     working in IS/IT department to globally
                                                                manage IS/IT operations
       Infrastructure       68,750       3,736,383       NO     Purchase of other small consum ables
        Application                                             required to run the business.
           Total           1,692,754     91,996,649
    5.     These payments, as evident from the nature of payments set out above and as
    was claimed by the assessee, were towards information system support services at a
    group level and has been charged from the appellant based on costs incurred towards
    consumption of various service elements by the appellant. The cost for each service
    element is determined by (a) applying an explicitly given price to the number of units of
    service consumed, or (b) calculating the share of globally incurred cost based on
    defined keys. The stand of the assessee was that these payments were in the nature of
    reimbursements and cannot partake the character of income in the hands of the recipient
    concerned. It was also contended that unless there is a transfer of all or any of the rights
    (including granting of any licence) in respect of copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific
    work, taxability under section 9(1)(vi) could not be invoked and there was no such
    transfer of right in this case. The assessee further clarified that in the context of Indo
    Canadian tax treaty, only such payments as have an element for use of IPRs could be
    considered as royalties, but then the present payments are for standard facilities. It was
                                                                              ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                       Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                    Page 6 of 16
    also explained that the BT Canada has not received any payments for commercial
    exploitation of copyright embedded in the applications. The Assessing Office, however,
    rejected this stand and proceeded to hold that these amounts are taxable as royalties
    under section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act as also under article 12(3) of the India
    Canada Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (Indo Canadian tax treaty, in short;
    (1998) 229 ITR (St) 44]. He was of the view that the impugned payments are in covered
    by the consideration for "use or right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific
    equipment" which was taxable under section 9(1)(vi) read with Explanation 2(iva) as also
    article 12(3)(b) of the Indo Canada tax treaty. The Assessing Officer, after a detailed
    analysis of the payments, was of the view that a major portion of the payment is for the
    use or right to use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, while remaining cover
    the use of various processes for which access has been granted by the assessee
    company". He thus held that the assesse ought to have withheld tax at source @10%
    from these payments. Accordingly, a demand under section 201(1) r.w.s. 195 was raised
    on the assessee. Aggrieved, assessee carried the matter in appeal before the CIT(A)
    who upheld the plea of the assessee and deleted the impugned tax withholding demand.
    While doing so, in a very well reasoned order, learned CIT(A), inter alia, observed as
    follows:
          2.10.13       I have carefully considered the facts of the case, the
          submissions of the appellant and the impugned order of the AO. The
          fundamental submission of the appellant is that the IT support services are
          not in the nature of 'Royalties' as no right to use of any equipment/secret
          process is conferred upon the appellant. The relevant provisions under the
          Act relating to taxation of income from royalty income are as follows:
          Section 9(1)(vi) income by way of royalty payable by-
          -------
(b) a person who is a resident, except where the royalty is payable in respect
of any right, property or information used or services utilised for the
purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person outside India
or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source outside
India ;
Explanation 2. - For the purposes of this clause, "royalty" means
consideration (including any lump sum consideration but excluding any
consideration which would be the income of the recipient chargeable under the
head "Capital gains") for--
(i) the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in
respect of a patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or
trade mark or similar property ;
\-----------------
ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 7 of 16 (iva) the use or
right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment but not
including the amounts referred to in section 44BB;
\------------------
Explanation 4. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
transfer of all or any rights in respect of any right, property or information
includes and has always included transfer of all or any right for use or right
to use a computer software (including granting of a licence) irrespective of
the medium through which such right is transferred.
Explanation 5 - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
royalty includes and has always included consideration in respect of any
right, property or information, whether or not -
(a) the possession or control of such right, property or information is with
the payer;
(b) such right, property or information is used directly by the payer;
(c) the location of such right, property or information is in India."
The term royalty has been defined in the India-Canada DTAA as under "3. The
term 'royalties' as used in this Article means :
(a) payment of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the
right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic, or scientific work
including cinematograph films or work on film tape or other means of
reproduction for use in connection with radio or television broadcasting, any
patent, trademark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for
information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience,
including gains derived from the alienation of any such right or property
which are contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition thereof; and
b) payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or the right
to use, any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment, other than
payments derived by an enterprise described in paragraph 1 of Article 8 from
activities described in paragraph 3(c) or 4 of Article 8.
The software application/services such as e-mail database, control tools, bar
coding solutions, HR Payroll System, finance reporting, applications for
recording time & attendance etc. used by the appellant are primarily in the
nature of applications for data processing or warehousing wherein the
appellant does not get control/power of use/disposal of hardware or server
involved. No use or right to use of any equipment or process is conferred upon
the appellant. The appellant is merely granted a facility and the
consideration for the same cannot be construed as royalty.
Therefore, going by the principles as elucidated by the Technical Advisory
Group of the OECD and the commentaries of renowned authors as well as the
judicial precedents relied upon by the assesses, as referred to above, it ITA
No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 8 of 16 is apparent that the
provision of software services cannot be said to be transactions for use of or
right to use either any "process" or "equipment" by the appellant so as to
render the amounts payable by the appellant to BT- Canada as "royalties" under
the I.T. Act or the DTAA. The transactions are merely in the nature of
provision of standard services. When we see from the perspective of the DTAA,
it is trite that for any consideration to be taxed as 'royalties', it has to
be first showed that the customer/payer has a 'right to use' of an right,
information or property and secondly, such right, information or property
should be in the nature of Intellectual Property Rights such as patent,
formula, secret process, copyright or any other similar property. In the light
of the various judicial decisions relied upon by the appellant, it is clear
that amendment in domestic law does not affect the provisions of the tax
treaty and even otherwise the said payments cannot be taxed in India
subsequent to the amendments in the Act as the primary condition of right to
use of equipment or process is not being fulfilled. Having said so, in the
absence of right to use of equipment or the cloud server, the concept of cloud
computing also cannot be invoked to tax the above said payments as royalties.
There are enough judicial reliance that can placed on this proposition
including the landmark judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Azadi Bachao Andolan vs. UOI 263 ITR 706 (SC) where it has been unequivocally
held that the interpretation given under the DTAAs ought to be given even
where it is inconsistent with the provisions of the I.T Act. On going through
the items for the purpose of which payments have been made by the appellant
clearly shows that there was no 'use of' or 'right to use of' any right,
property or information by the appellant. The nature of these items are
clearly licensed softwares and applications, the cost of which has been
incurred by BT-Canada and later recouped from the appellant. The Hon'ble Delhi
High Court in Director of Income-tax vs. Infrasoft Ltd. [2013] 264 CTR 329 and
Nokia Networks Oyj [2013] 358 ITR 259 has unequivocally held that payment
towards software for self-use is nothing but consideration towards a
copyrighted article but not towards right to use the embedded copyright.
Strictly speaking, use of a copyright in a software for the purpose of
commercial exploitation in terms of reproduction, sub-lisence etc. only would
tantamount to royalties. Further, none of the payments have also been made
towards use of any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment.
In view of discussion above, I am of the considered view that the payment made
by the Appellant for the provision of IT support services cannot be taxed as
'Royalties' under the beneficial provisions of Article 12 of the India- Canada
DTAA. Further, as stated in the earlier ground of appeal in the light of the
Apex Court decision in GE India Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. [2010] 327 ITR 456
(SC) wherein it has been held that payment made to a non- resident will be
subject to withholding of tax u/s. 195(1) of the Act only if the ITA
No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 9 of 16 sum payable is
'chargeable to tax ' in India in the hands of non-resident, the appellant was
not per se obliged to deduct any tax at source u/s 195 of the Act in the
absence of any component of income involved. Thus, there existed no liability
of the appellant to deduct any TDS u/s 195 (1) of the I.T. Act. This ground of
appeal is allowed accordingly.
6\. Aggrieved by the relief so granted by the CIT(A), the Assessing Officer is
in appeal before us.
7\. We have heard the rival contentions, perused the material on record and
duly considered facts of the case in the light of the applicable legal
positon.
8\. We find that the related payments made by the assessee to BT Canada were
in the nature of reimbursements, and, as evident from the details taken to
record earlier in this order, there were specific cost allocations which were
borne by the assessee. These payments, by no stretch of logic, could be viewed
as payments for right to use the equipment. The assessee was entitled to
certain services, during rendition of which even if certain equipment were to
be used, but that by itself did not result in any use of or right to use the
equipment by the assessee. The service may involve use of equipment but that
does not vest right in the assessee to use the equipment. Even if a part of
consideration can be said to be on account of use of equipment by breaking
down all the components of economic activity for which consideration is paid,
it is neither practicable, nor permissible, to assign monetary value to each
of the segment of this economic activity and consider that amount in
isolation, for the purpose of deciding character of that amount. Similarly,
even if the payment is to be considered as payment for use of software, as is
the settled legal position as on now, unless there is no transfer of
copyright, there cannot be any occasion to hold it as royalty. In any event,
so far as the transaction between the assessee and the BT Canada is concerned,
it is simply in the nature of reimbursement of expenses incurred by BT Canada,
on behalf of the assessee, and it has no income element so far as BT Canada is
concerned. During the course of hearing before us, when we put this
proposition to the learned Departmental Representative, he did not have much
to say beyond placing reliance on the stand of the Assessing Officer. We also
find that this issue is also covered, in favour of the assessee, by a
coordinate bench decision of this Tribunal which has, in the case of Kotak
Mahindra Primus Ltd vs DDIT [(2007) 11 SOT 578 (Mum)] wherein it was observed
by the bench that "The Indian company does not have any control over, or
physical access to, the mainframe computer in Australia. There cannot,
therefore, be any question of payment for use of the mainframe computer. It is
indeed true that the use of mainframe computer is integral to the data
processing but what is important to bear in mind is the fact that the payment
is not for the use of mainframe computer per se, that the Indian company does
not have any control over the mainframe computer or physical access to the
mainframe computer, and that the payment is for act of specialized data
processing by the Australian company. Use of mainframe computer in the course
of processing of data is one of the important ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment
Year: 2013-14  Page 10 of 16 aspects of the whole activity but that is not the
purpose of, and consideration for, the impugned payment being made to
Australian company. The payment, as we have observed earlier, is for the
activity of specialized data processing. It is neither practicable, nor
permissible, to assign monetary value to each of the segment of this economic
activity and consider that amount in isolation, for the purpose of deciding
character of that amount. Therefore, neither the impugned payment can be said
to be towards use of, or right to use of, the mainframe computer, nor is it
permissible to allocate a part of the impugned payment, as attributable to use
of, or right to use of, mainframe computer. Accordingly, the provisions of
art. 12(3)(b) cannot have any application in the matter." Going by this logic
even if one proceeds on the basis that any equipment is used in rendition of
these services, such a payment, or part thereof, cannot be treated as payment
for use of equipment. Revenue's case is thus acceptable as payment for use of
equipment. In any case, the details furnished by the assessee also support the
fact of reimbursement. When recipient does not have any income embedded in the
related payment as reimbursement, there cannot be any occasion for deduction
of tax at source under section 195. In view of these discussions, as also
approving the reasoning adopted by the CIT(A), we uphold the conclusions
arrived at by the learned CIT(A) and decline to interfere in the matter.
9\. Ground no. 2 is thus dismissed.
10\. In ground no 3, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
> The ld. CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment of
> Rs.7,21,21,518/- made towards providing of services to use of equipment and
> right to use equipment received from the Holding Company and associated
> enterprises of the group concerns are not in the nature of Royalty.
11\. So far as this ground of appeal is concerned, the relevant material facts
are like this. During the course of verification of TDS returns, the Assessing
Officer noticed that the assessee has made payments of Rs 6,80,54,110, on
account of Administration, Marketing, Procurement and CCR Services and Rs
40,67,408, on account of Human Resources Services, to BT Canada. These
services were rendered by BT Canada, at the group level, to the assessee under
a contract. These services were in several categories- namely, (a) finance an
accounting, (b) group taxation, (c) engineering, (d) human resources, (e)
marketing and strategic planning (f) management support (g) HR back office;
(h) legal, (i) corporate office fees, (j) supply management, (k)
communication, (l) bids, (m) intellectual property (n) six sigma and (j)
others. There is no dispute, however, about the nature of services inasmuch as
all these services are in the nature of management support and advisory
services. On these facts, the Assessing Officer was of the view that these
services result in "passing on suitable knowledge, skill ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 11 of 16 and experience during the course of
execution of these services" which itself "makes available experience and
skill of the non resident to the assessee which gets hit by the mischief of
definition of fees for technical services in the DTAA". The Assessing Officer
was also of the view that "the service of technical input, advice, expertise
etc rendered by the non resident company are technical in nature as provided
for definition in the DTAA and not merely a standard service". All along in
the discussions, the Assessing Officer emphasized on the technical inputs and
benefits to the assessee which leads to the services being technical in nature
and making available benefits of these services to the assessee. It was thus
held, without giving any findings to the effect that there was a transfer of
technology inasmuch as the assessee was enabled to perform the same services
in future without recourse to the service provider, that the fees for these
services is covered by the definition of 'fees for technical services' in the
Indo Canadian tax treaty. Accordingly, the assessee was held to have committed
a default in not deduction tax at sources from these payments, @ 15%, under
section 195 of the Act. The resultant demand under section 201 r.w.s. 195 was,
therefore, raised by the Assessing Officer. Aggrieved, assessee carried the
matter in appeal before the CIT(A). Learned CIT(A) upheld the grievance of the
assessee and deleted the impugned demand on the basis of following reasoning:
> 2.9.9 I have carefully considered the facts of the case/ the submissions of
> the appellant and the impugned order of the AO. As per the agreement between
> BT-Canada and the appellant, the services include common services towards
> Finance and Accounting, Group Taxation, Engineering, human resource,
> Marketing and Strategic Planning, Management Support, Others, HRSSO, Legal,
> Corporate Office Fees, Supply Management, Communication, Bids, Intellectual
> Property, Six Sigma. The services rendered by the appellant may at best be
> categorized as 'technical' in nature under domestic law. However, under the
> treaty, the qualifying words 'make available' are of significance and hence,
> if any technical or consulting service is not making available technology to
> the service recipient, the same cannot suffer TDS u/s.195(1) of the I.T.
> Act. The AO has not established how 'make available' clause has been
> satisfied other than stating that the services rendered by BT-Canada would
> invariably lead to imparting of suitable skill sets/knowledge in the hands
> of the appellant in the area in which these services are rendered with
> consequent improvement in the performance of the local employees. In my
> considered opinion, such finding based on conjectures is too farfetched and
> contrary to the legal jurisprudence on the concept of 'make available'.
From the perusal of the agreement with BT-Canada and the annexures thereto,
the nature of services are such that these do not enable the service recipient
to make use of the said technical or managerial services independently. More
so in the instant case where such services have been availed by the appellant
regularly year on year, there is no scope of ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment
Year: 2013-14  Page 12 of 16 appellant being equipped enough to carry out such
services/functions on its own. More importantly, there is no training involved
under the agreement neither has there been any material evidence to prove so.
Merely because the appellant benefits out of the services being provided by
BT-Canada which is common for the Bombardier Group as a whole, would not
automatically bring these services within the purview of 'making available'
any technology to the employees of the appellant for them to further apply
this technology in their routine business operations. The case laws referred
by the appellant buttress the argument put forward by the appellant that the
services rendered by BT-Canada are in effect towards the proper functioning of
the appellant's business operations and alignment with the Bombardier group's
global best practices. Such arrangements are not uncommon among various multi-
national enterprises and have also been favourably considered by the following
decisions:
• Bharti AXA General Insurance Co. Ltd (234 CTR 62) • Bovis Lend Lease (India)
Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO [2010] 127 TTJ 25 (Bang.) • Invensys Systems Inv. V. DCIT
317 ITR 438 (AAR) Furthermore, recently the Ahmedabad Tribunal in the case of
Shell Global Solutions International BV vs. Income Tax Officer in I.T.A.
No.1283/Ahd/2010 dated November 10, 2015 held that consideration received by
Shell Global for rendering services to an Indian co. under the Basic Refinery
Package i.e. services in the nature of best practice manuals, guidelines,
newsletters, etc. developed by assessee based on its expertise/ experience in
running refineries and services like undertaking site inspection,
technical/organizational review of processes, providing recommendations etc.
could not to be taxed as fees for technical services ('FTS' } under India-
Netherlands DTAA. It was observed that none of them involve transfer of
technology and absent 'make available' of technology the same cannot be taxed
as Fees for technical service. This case is squarely applicable on the facts
of the present matter and hence, the action of the AO in concluding that BT
Canada is making available technology to the appellant is incorrect and liable
to be reversed.
Further, the Ahmedabad Bench of the Tribunal observed in the case of Income-
tax Officer (International Taxation), Vadodara v. Denial Measurement Solutions
(P.) Ltd. {[2014] 52 taxmann.com 443 (Ahmedabad - Trib.)}, that the condition
precedent for invoking the "make available" clause is that the services should
enable the person acquiring the services to apply technology contained
therein. It further held that unless there is a transfer of technology
involved in technical services the "make available" clause is not satisfied.
Thus payment made by assessee, engaged in business of manufacturing ultrasonic
meters, to a US company towards calibration and ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment
Year: 2013-14  Page 13 of 16 testing of equipment, could not be treated as,
fee for technical services' due to non-compliance with make available cause.
Further, Ahmedabad Tribunal, in the case of ITO, International Taxation- II v.
Veeda Clinical Research (P.) Ltd. {[2013] 35 taxmann.com 577}, held that the
training services rendered by the service provider were general in nature as
the training is described as 'in house training of IT staff and medical staff'
and of 'market awareness and development training'. Clearly, this training
does not involve any transfer of technology and fees for same was not taxable
as fees for technical services as per article 13 of India-UK DTAA. The law is
settled so far as the connotations of 'make available' clause in the
definition of fees for technical services in the contemporary tax treaties are
concerned. It is held to be a condition precedent for invoking this clause
that the services should enable the person acquiring the services to apply
technology contained therein. The Tribunal observed that there are two non-
jurisdictional High Court decisions, namely Delhi High Court in the case of
DIT v. Guy Carpenter & Co. Ltd. [2012] 346 ITR 504/207 Taxman 121/20
taxmann.com 807 and Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT v. De Beers India
(P.) Ltd. [2012] 346 ITR 467/208 Taxman 406/21taxmann.com 214 in support of
this proposition, and there is no contrary decision by the jurisdictional High
Court or by the Supreme Court. Therefore, unless there is a transfer of
technology involved in technical services extended by the UK based company,
the 'make available' clause is not satisfied and, accordingly, the
consideration for such services cannot be taxed under article 13 (4) (c) of
India-UK tax treaty.
In view of discussion above and respectfully following the above stated
decisions of the jurisdictional Tribunal and plethora of rulings from various
Courts & Tribunals, I am of the considered opinion that the impugned payment
for support services does not warrant to be characterized as 'fee for
technical services' under India-Canada DTAA. Further, in view of the decision
of the Apex Court in the case of GE India Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. [2010]
327 ITR 456 (SC) wherein it has been held that payment made to a non-resident
will be subject to withholding of tax u/s. 195(1) of the Act only if the sum
payable is 'chargeable to tax' in India in the hands of non- resident, the
payer was not per se obliged to deduct any tax at source u/s 195 of the Act in
the absence of any component of income involved. Thus, where the sum payable
to BT-Canada did not consist any income chargeable to tax in India, there
existed no liability of the appellant to deduct TDS u/s 195(1) of the I.T.
Act. The AO is directed to grant the relief accordingly. The ground of appeal
is accordingly allowed.
12\. Aggrieved by the relief so granted by the CIT(A), the Assessing Officer
is in appeal before us.
ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 14 of 16
13\. We have heard the rival contentions, perused the material on record and
duly considered facts of the case in the light of the applicable legal
positon.
14\. We find that the relevant provisions in the Indo Canadian tax treaty,
which govern the taxability of fees for technical services, are as follows:
> Article 12: Royalty and fees for included services
> 4\. For the purposes of this Article, 'fees for included services' means
> payments of any kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of any
> technical or consultancy services (including through the provision of
> services of technical or other personnel) if such services :
> (a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the
> right, property or information for which a payment described in paragraph 3
> is received; or
> (b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how, or
> processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or
> technical design.
> 15\. We find that so far as taxability under Article 12, i.e. with respect
> to 'Royalties and fees for included services' is concerned, we find that
> Article 12(4) provides that, "The term "fees for technical included
> services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind to any person
> in consideration for services of a managerial, technical or consultancy
> nature (including the provision of such services through technical or other
> personnel) if such services : (a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the
> application or enjoyment of the right, property or information for which a
> payment described in paragraph 3 is received ;
or (b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or
processes, which enables the person acquiring the services to apply the
technology contained therein". In order to invoke article 12(4)(a) it is
necessary that such services should "make available" technical knowledge,
experience, skill, know-how, or processes or consist of the development and
transfer of a technical plan or technical design The services provided by BT
Canada were simply management support or consultancy services which did not
involve any transfer of technology. It is not even the case of the Assessing
Officer that the services were such that the recipient of service was enabled
to perform these services on its own without any further recourse to the
service provider. It is in this context that we have to examine the scope of
expression 'make available'.
16\. As for the connotations of make available clause in the treaty, this
issue is no longer res integra. There are at least two non-jurisdictional High
Court decisions, namely ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 15
of 16 Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of DIT Vs Guy Carpenter & Co Ltd
([(2012) 346 ITR 504 (Del)] and Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of
CIT Vs De Beers India Pvt. Ltd [(2012) 346 ITR 467 (Kar)] in favour of the
assessee, and there is no contrary decision by Hon'ble jurisdictional High
Court or by Hon'ble Supreme Court. In De Beers case (supra), Their Lordships
posed the question, as to "what is meaning of make available", to themselves,
and proceeded to deal with it as follows:
> The technical or consultancy service rendered should be of such a nature
> that it "makes available" to the recipient technical knowledge, know-how and
> the like. The service should be aimed at and result in transmitting
> technical knowledge, etc., so that the payer of the service could derive an
> enduring benefit and utilize the knowledge or know-how on his own in future
> without the aid of the service provider. In other words, to fit into the
> terminology "making available", the technical knowledge, skill?, etc., must
> remain with the person receiving the services even after the particular
> contract comes to an end. It is not enough that the services offered are the
> product of intense technological effort and a lot of technical knowledge and
> experience of the service provider have gone into it.
> The technical knowledge or skills of the provider should be imparted to and
> absorbed by the receiver so that the receiver can deploy similar technology
> or techniques in the future without depending upon the provider. Technology
> will be considered "made available" when the person acquiring the service is
> enabled to apply the technology. The fact that the provision of the service
> that may require technical knowledge, skills, etc., does not mean that
> technology is made available to the person purchasing the service, within
> the meaning of paragraph (4)(b). Similarly, the use of a product which
> embodies technology shall not per se be considered to make the technology
> available. In other words, payment of consideration would be regarded as
> "fee for technical/included services" only if the twin test of rendering
> services and making technical knowledge available at the same time is
> satisfied.
17\. As we have noted earlier, it is not even the case of the Assessing
Officer that the assessee, i.e. recipient of services, was enabled to use
these services in future without recourse to BT Canada. The tests laid down by
Hon'ble Court were clearly not satisfied. There mere fact that there were
certain technical inputs or that the assessee immensely benefited from these
services, even resulting in value addition to the employees of the assessee,
is wholly irrelevant. The expression 'make available' has a specific meaning
in the context of the tax treaties and there is, thus, no need to adopt the
day to day meaning of this expression, as has been done by the Assessing
Officer.
ITA No.555/Ahd/2016 Assessment Year: 2013-14  Page 16 of 16
18\. In view of these discussions, and as we concur with the well reasoned
findings of the learned CIT(A), we approve the conclusions arrived at by the
learned CIT(A) and decline to interfere in the matter on this count as well.
The order of the CIT(A) stands confirmed.
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    TRUE COPY
                                                                      Assistant Registrar
                                                            Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
                                                         Ahmedabad benches, Ahmedabad
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
    Kanchal Kaushal, Piyush Chawla and Dhaval Trivedi for the respondent
    Date of concluding the hearing          :       04.10.2016
    Date of pronouncing the order           :       03.01.2017
                                   O    R       D     E   R
    Per Pramod Kumar AM:
    1.     By way of this appeal, the Assessing Officer has challenged correctness of the
    order dated 21.12.2015, passed by the learned CIT(A)-13, Ahmedabad, in the matter of
    assessment under section 201(1) & 201(1A) r..w.s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for
    the assessment year 2013-14.
    2.    Ground no. 1 is general in nature and does not call for any specific judication by
    us.
    3.    In ground no. 2, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
          The learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment
          of Rs.9,19,96,649/- made towards various IT support services received from
          the Holding Company and associated enterprises of the group concerns are
          not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS).
    4.     So far as this grievance of the assessee is concerned, the relevant material facts
    are like this. The assessee before us is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bombardier
                                                                                    ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
    Kanchal Kaushal, Piyush Chawla and Dhaval Trivedi for the respondent
    Date of concluding the hearing          :       04.10.2016
    Date of pronouncing the order           :       03.01.2017
                                   O    R       D     E   R
    Per Pramod Kumar AM:
    1.     By way of this appeal, the Assessing Officer has challenged correctness of the
    order dated 21.12.2015, passed by the learned CIT(A)-13, Ahmedabad, in the matter of
    assessment under section 201(1) & 201(1A) r..w.s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for
    the assessment year 2013-14.
    2.    Ground no. 1 is general in nature and does not call for any specific judication by
    us.
    3.    In ground no. 2, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
          The learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment
          of Rs.9,19,96,649/- made towards various IT support services received from
          the Holding Company and associated enterprises of the group concerns are
          not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS).
    4.     So far as this grievance of the assessee is concerned, the relevant material facts
    are like this. The assessee before us is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bombardier
                                                                                    ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
    Kanchal Kaushal, Piyush Chawla and Dhaval Trivedi for the respondent
    Date of concluding the hearing          :       04.10.2016
    Date of pronouncing the order           :       03.01.2017
                                   O    R       D     E   R
    Per Pramod Kumar AM:
    1.     By way of this appeal, the Assessing Officer has challenged correctness of the
    order dated 21.12.2015, passed by the learned CIT(A)-13, Ahmedabad, in the matter of
    assessment under section 201(1) & 201(1A) r..w.s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for
    the assessment year 2013-14.
    2.    Ground no. 1 is general in nature and does not call for any specific judication by
    us.
    3.    In ground no. 2, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
          The learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment
          of Rs.9,19,96,649/- made towards various IT support services received from
          the Holding Company and associated enterprises of the group concerns are
          not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS).
    4.     So far as this grievance of the assessee is concerned, the relevant material facts
    are like this. The assessee before us is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bombardier
                                                                                    ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                             Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                                Page 2 of 16
    Transportation (Holdings) Singapore Pte Ltd, a part of Bombardier Group, and is
    engaged in the business of manufacturing and supply of rail transportation system, which
    includes traction, auxiliary converters, vacuum circuit breakers, control electronics,
    signaling equipment, coaches and bogies for metro trains. During the course of scrutiny
    of TDS returns, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has made payments,
    aggregating to Rs 9,19,96,649 to Bombardier Transportation Canada Inc (BTCI, in
    short). The details of these payments are as follows:
    Service Units Text    (USD)         (INR)      TDS                Nature of service
                                                           ERP application used at Maneja site of
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
    Mahesh Shah and Madhusudan for the appellant
    Kanchal Kaushal, Piyush Chawla and Dhaval Trivedi for the respondent
    Date of concluding the hearing          :       04.10.2016
    Date of pronouncing the order           :       03.01.2017
                                   O    R       D     E   R
    Per Pramod Kumar AM:
    1.     By way of this appeal, the Assessing Officer has challenged correctness of the
    order dated 21.12.2015, passed by the learned CIT(A)-13, Ahmedabad, in the matter of
    assessment under section 201(1) & 201(1A) r..w.s. 195 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for
    the assessment year 2013-14.
    2.    Ground no. 1 is general in nature and does not call for any specific judication by
    us.
    3.    In ground no. 2, the Assessing Officer has raised the following grievance:
          The learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in holding that the payment
          of Rs.9,19,96,649/- made towards various IT support services received from
          the Holding Company and associated enterprises of the group concerns are
          not in the nature of Fee for Technical Services (FTS).
    4.     So far as this grievance of the assessee is concerned, the relevant material facts
    are like this. The assessee before us is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bombardier
                                                                                    ITA No.555/Ahd/2016
                                                                             Assessment Year: 2013-14
                                                                                                Page 2 of 16
    Transportation (Holdings) Singapore Pte Ltd, a part of Bombardier Group, and is
    engaged in the business of manufacturing and supply of rail transportation system, which
    includes traction, auxiliary converters, vacuum circuit breakers, control electronics,
    signaling equipment, coaches and bogies for metro trains. During the course of scrutiny
    of TDS returns, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has made payments,
    aggregating to Rs 9,19,96,649 to Bombardier Transportation Canada Inc (BTCI, in
    short). The details of these payments are as follows:
    Service Units Text    (USD)         (INR)      TDS                Nature of service
                                                           ERP application used at Maneja site of
19\. Ground no. 3 is thus dismissed.
20\. Ground no. 4 and 5 are general and do not call for any adjudication by
us.
21\. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Pronounced in the open court
today on 3rd day of January, 2017.
         Sd/-                                                          Sd/-
    S S Godara                                                    Pramod Kumar
    (Judicial Member)                                             (Accountant Member)
    Ahmedabad, the 3 rd day of January, 2017
    Copies to:   (1)    The appellant
                 (2)    The respondent
                 (3)    Commissioner
                 (4)    CIT(A)
                 (5)    Departmental Representative
                 (6)    Guard File
                                                                                     By order
