Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Bangalore
Witness Systems Software India ... vs Assessee on 31 January, 2013
                IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                         "B" BENCH : BANGALORE
         BEFORE SHRI N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR, VICE PRESIDENT
             AND SHRI N.V. VASUDEVAN, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                            IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                             Assessment year : 2007-08
     Witness Systems Software              Vs. The Deputy Commissioner of
     India Private Ltd.,                       Income Tax,
     58, 6th Floor, Brigade Road,              Circle 11(1),
     Bangalore - 560 001.                      Bangalore.
     PAN : AAACW 5507F
               APPELLANT                               RESPONDENT
          Appellant by        :   Shri T. Suryanarayana, Advocate
          Respondent by       :   Shri Farahat Hussain Qureshi, CIT-II(DR)
                  Date of hearing            :   31.01.2013
                  Date of Pronouncement      :   22.02.2013
                                       ORDER
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
order dated 11.10.2011 passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Income-tax Act,
1961 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act" in short"].
2\. Grounds 1 to 6 raised by the assessee in its grounds of appeal are with
regard to the addition made by the AO by way of adjustment to arm's length
price (ALP) in respect of an international transaction carried out by IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 2 of 30 the assessee with its Associated Enterprise
(AE) in terms of section 92A of the Act.
3\. The facts with regard to the aforesaid addition are as follows. The
assessee is a company. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Witness Systems Inc.
of America. The assessee is a captive service provider to its holding company,
Witness Systems Inc. [WSI]. The assessee carried out software designing
research and development activities for development of software, software
quality assistance, testing, software maintenance and support function (which
includes technical support, documentation, it integration, configuration
management) for WSI. During the previous year, the assessee received the
following amounts from its AE for the various services that it provided to the
AE.
4\. In this appeal, we are concerned only with transfer pricing adjustment
made by the TPO in respect of the receipts by the assessee for providing
software designing and development services. The assessee filed transfer
pricing analysis justifying the payment that it had received from its AE as at
arm's length. It is not in dispute that the most appropriate method for
computation of ALP is the Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM). The net
margin to cost was chosen as the Profit Level Indicator IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 3 of 30 (PLI) for the purpose of comparison. The
assessee's PLI was computed as follows:-
5\. The assessee chose 11 comparable companies and the arithmetic mean of
those comparables was as follows:-
6\. The assessee adopted the following filters while conducting its TP study:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 4 of 30
7\. The TPO to whom the computation of ALP was referred to by the AO u/s. 92CA
of the Act, rejected 4 comparables on the ground that the related party
transactions in those comparables were more than 25%. One comparable was
rejected on the ground that it had diminishing revenues and predominantly on-
site activities generated 85% of its revenue. One more company was rejected
for the reason that it was functionally not comparable. Thus, out of 11
comparables chosen by the assessee, only two comparables were accepted by the
TPO as comparable with that of the assessee viz., M/s. Quintegra Solutions
Ltd. and S I P Technologies & Exports Ltd. The TPO adopted his own filters and
while doing so, arrived at 26 comparables including the two comparables chosen
by the assessee.
The 26 comparables chosen by the TPO were as follows:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 5 of 30
8\. After rejecting the various objections raised by the assessee, the TPO
computed the ALP and suggested an addition of Rs.2,05,82,039 as follows:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 6 of 30
9\. On appeal by the assessee, the DRP confirmed the order of the TPO giving
rise to the present appeal by the assessee before the Tribunal.
10\. At the outset, it was submitted by the parties before us that the very
same 26 comparables had been chosen by the TPO for determining the ALP in the
case of software services providing company viz., Trilogy E-
Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. It was also accepted by the parties that
that in the case of that company, this Tribunal in ITA No.1054/Bang/2011 by
its order dated 23.11.2012 considered the comparability of the comparables
chosen by the TPO. It was agreed by the parties that the aforesaid decision,
which incidentally is also for the A.Y.
2007-08, will apply to the case of the assessee in this appeal also. It was
also accepted by the parties that some of the comparables chosen by the TPO
have also been considered by the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
Telcordia Technologies India Pvt. Ltd., ITA No.7821/Mum/2011; and by the
Bangalore Bench of the Tribunal in the case of 24/7 Customer Com Pvt. Ltd.,
ITA No.227/Bang/2010. In this background, we shall now examine the 26
comparables chosen by the IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 7 of 30 TPO and also
consider as to what will be the comparables that can be considered for the
purpose of determining the ALP.
11\. As far as the comparables chosen by the TPO at Sl.Nos.
6,9,10,17,18, 22, 24 & 26 are concerned, it is not in dispute that the
turnover of these companies are more than Rs.200 crores. The turnover of the
assessee in the present case is Rs.22.08 crores (approx.). It has been held by
this Tribunal in the case of Trilogy E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd.
(supra) that companies with a turnover of more than Rs.200 crores cannot be
taken as comparables while determining the ALP in the case of companies having
turnover of less than Rs.200 crores. The following are the relevant
observations of the Tribunal in this regard:-
> "(1) Turnover Filter
> 11\. The ld. counsel for the assessee submitted that the TPO has applied a
> lower turnover filter of Rs.1 crore, but has not chosen to apply any upper
> turnover limit. In this regard, it was submitted by him that under rule
> 10B(3) to the Income-tax Rules, it was necessary for comparing an
> uncontrolled transaction with an international transaction that there should
> not be any difference between the transactions compared or the enterprises
> entering into such transaction, which are likely to materially affect the
> price or cost charged or paid or profit arising from such transaction in the
> open market. Further it is also necessary to see that wherever there are
> some differences such differences should be capable of reasonable accurate
> adjustment in monetary terms to eliminate the effect of such differences. It
> was his submission that size was an important facet of the comparability
> exercise. It was submitted that significant differences in size of the
> companies would impact comparability. In this regard our attention was drawn
> to the decision of the Special Bench of the ITAT Chandigarh Bench in the
> case of DCIT v. Quark Systems Pvt. Ltd. 38 SOT 207, wherein the Special
> Bench had laid down that it is improper to proceed on the basis of lower
> limit of 1 crore turnover with no higher limit on turnover, as the same was
> not reasonable classification. Several other decisions were IT(TP)A
> No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 8 of 30 referred to in this regard laying down
> identical proposition. We are not referring to those decisions as the
> decision of the Special Bench on this aspect would hold the field. Reference
> was also made to the OECD TP Guidelines, 2010 wherein it has been observed
> as follows:-
"Size criteria in terms of Sales, Assets or Number of Employees: The size of
the transaction in absolute value or in proportion to the activities of the
parties might affect the relative competitive positions of the buyer and
seller and therefore comparability."
12\. The ICAI TP Guidelines note on this aspect lay down in para 15.4 that a
transaction entered into by a Rs. 1,000 crore company cannot be compared with
the transaction entered into by a Rs. 10 crore company. The two most obvious
reasons are the size of the two companies and the relative economies of scale
under which they operate. The fact that they operate in the same market may
not make them comparable enterprises. The relevant extract is as follows [on
Rule 10B(3)]:
"Clause (i) lays down that if the differences are not material, the
transactions would be comparable. These differences could either be with
reference to the transaction or with reference to the enterprise. For
instance, a transaction entered into by a Rs 1,000 crore company cannot be
compared with the transaction entered into by a Rs 10 crore company. The two
most obvious reasons are the size of the two companies and the relative
economies of scale under which they operate."
13\. It was further submitted that the TPO's range (Rs. 1 crore to infinity)
has resulted in selection of companies like Infosys which is 277 times bigger
than the Assessee (turnover of Rs. 13,149 crores as compared to Rs. 47.47
crores of Assessee). It was submitted that an appropriate turnover range
should be applied in selecting comparable uncontrolled companies.
14\. Reference was made to the decision of the ITAT Bangalore Bench in the
case of Genesis Integrating Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT, ITA
No.1231/Bang/2010, wherein relying on Dun and Bradstreet's analysis, the
turnover of Rs. 1 crore to Rs.200 crores was held to be proper. The following
relevant observations were brought to our notice:-
> IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 9 of 30 "9. Having heard both the parties
> and having considered the rival contentions and also the judicial precedents
> on the issue, we find that the TPO himself has rejected the companies which
> .ire (sic) making losses as comparables. This shows that there is a limit
> for the lower end for identifying the comparables. In such a situation, we
> are unable to understand as to why there should not be an upper limit also.
> What should be upper limit is another factor to be considered. We agree with
> the contention of the learned counsel for the assessee that the size matters
> in business. A big company would be in a position to bargain the price and
> also attract more customers. It would also have a broad base of skilled
> employees who are able to give better output. A small company may not have
> these benefits and therefore, the turnover also would come down reducing
> profit margin. Thus, as held by the various benches of the Tribunal, when
> companies which arc loss making are excluded from comparables, then the
> super profit making companies should also be excluded. For the purpose of
> classification of companies on the basis of net sales or turnover, we find
> that a reasonable classification has to be made. Dun & Bradstreet &
> Bradstreet and NASSCOM have given different ranges. Taking the Indian
> scenario into consideration, we feel that the classification made by Dun &
> Bradstreet is more suitable and reasonable. In view of the same, we hold
> that the turnover filter is very important and the companies having a
> turnover of Rs.1.00 crore to 200 crores have to be taken as a particular
> range and the assessee being in that range having turnover of 8.15 crores,
> the companies which also have turnover of 1.00 to 200.00 crores only should
> be taken into consideration for the purpose of making TP study."
15\. It was brought to our notice that the above proposition has also been
followed by the Honourable Bangalore ITAT in the following cases:
1\. M/s Kodiak Networks (India) Private Limited Vs. ACIT (ITA
No.1413/Bang/2010)
2\. M/s Genesis Microchip (I) Private Limited Vs. DCIT (ITA
No.1254/Bang/20l0).
3\. Electronic for Imaging India Private Limited (ITA No. 1171/Bang/2010).
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 10 of 30 It was finally submitted that
companies having turnover more than Rs. 200 crores ought to be rejected as not
comparable with the Assessee.
16\. The ld. DR, on the other hand pointed out that even the assessee in its
own TP study has taken companies having turnover of more than Rs.200 crores as
comparables. In these circumstances, it was submitted by him that the assessee
cannot have any grievance in this regard.
17\. We have considered the rival submissions. The provisions of the Act and
the Rules that are relevant for deciding the issue have to be first seen.
Sec.92. of the Act provides that any income arising from an international
transaction shall be computed having regard to the arm's length price.
Sec.92-B provides that "international transaction" means a transaction between
two or more associated enterprises, either or both of whom are non- residents,
in the nature of purchase, sale or lease of tangible or intangible property,
or provision of services, or lending or borrowing money, or any other
transaction having a bearing on the profits, income, losses or assets of such
enterprises, and shall include a mutual agreement or arrangement between two
or more associated enterprises for the allocation or apportionment of, or any
contribution to, any cost or expense incurred or to be incurred in connection
with a benefit, service or facility provided or to be provided to any one or
more of such enterprises. Sec.92- A defines what is an Associated Enterprise.
In the present case there is no dispute that the transaction between the
Assessee and its AE was an international transaction attracting the provisions
of Sec.92 of the Act. Sec.92C provides the manner of computation of Arm's
length price in an international transaction and it provides:-
> (1) that the arm's length price in relation to an international transaction
> shall be determined by any of the following methods, being the most
> appropriate method, having regard to the nature of transaction or class of
> transaction or class of associated persons or functions performed by such
> persons or such other relevant factors as the Board may prescribe, namely
> :--
> (a) comparable uncontrolled price method;
           (b)    resale price method;
           (c)    cost plus method;
           (d)    profit split method;
           (e)    transactional net margin method;
                                              IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                           Page 11 of 30
        (f)     such other method as may be prescribed by
                the Board.
> (2) The most appropriate method referred to in sub- section (1) shall be
> applied, for determination of arm's length price, in the manner as may be
> prescribed: Provided that where more than one price is determined by the
> most appropriate method, the arm's length price shall be taken to be the
> arithmetical mean of such prices:
> Provided further that if the variation between the arm's length price so
> determined and price at which the international transaction has actually
> been undertaken does not exceed five per cent of the latter, the price at
> which the international transaction has actually been undertaken shall be
> deemed to be the arm's length price.
> (3) Where during the course of any proceeding for the assessment of income,
> the Assessing Officer is, on the basis of material or information or
> document in his possession, of the opinion that--
> (a) the price charged or paid in an international transaction has not been
> determined in accordance with sub-sections (1) and (2); or
> (b) any information and document relating to an international transaction
> have not been kept and maintained by the assessee in accordance with the
> provisions contained in sub-section (1) of section 92D and the rules made in
> this behalf; or
> (c) the information or data used in computation of the arm's length price is
> not reliable or correct; or
> (d) the assessee has failed to furnish, within the specified time, any
> information or document which he was required to furnish by a notice issued
> under sub-section (3) of section 92D, the Assessing Officer may proceed to
> determine the arm's length price in relation to the said international
> transaction in accordance with sub-sections (1) and (2), on the basis of
> such material or information or document available with him:
18\. Rule 10B of the IT Rules, 1962 prescribes rules for Determination of
arm's length price under section 92C:-
"10B. (1) For the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 92C, the arm's length
price in relation to an international IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 12 of 30
transaction shall be determined by any of the following methods, being the
most appropriate method, in the following manner, namely :--
> (a).......
> to
> (d)........
(e) transactional net margin method, by which,--
(i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international
transaction entered into with an associated enterprise is computed in relation
to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed or to be employed by
the enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base;
(ii) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise or by an unrelated
enterprise from a comparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such
transactions is computed having regard to the same base;
(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii) arising in
comparable uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the
differences, if any, between the international transaction and the comparable
uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such
transactions, which could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in
the open market;
(iv) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise and referred to in sub-
clause (i) is established to be the same as the net profit margin referred to
in sub-clause (iii);
(v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to
arrive at an arm's length price in relation to the international transaction.
(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1), the comparability of an international
transaction with an uncontrolled transaction shall be judged with reference to
the following, namely:--
> (a) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services
> provided in either transaction;
> (b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed or to be
> employed and the risks assumed, by the respective parties to the
> transactions;
> IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 13 of 30
> (c) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in
> writing) of the transactions which lay down explicitly or implicitly how the
> responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between the
> respective parties to the transactions;
> (d) conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective parties to
> the transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of
> the markets, the laws and Government orders in force, costs of labour and
> capital in the markets, overall economic development and level of
> competition and whether the markets are wholesale or retail.
(3) An uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to an international
transaction if--
> (i) none of the differences, if any, between the transactions being
> compared, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions are
> likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid in, or the
> profit arising from, such transactions in the open market; or
> (ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
> effects of such differences.
(4) The data to be used in analysing the comparability of an uncontrolled
transaction with an international transaction shall be the data relating to
the financial year in which the international transaction has been entered
into :
Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior to
such financial year may also be considered if such data reveals facts which
could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices in relation to
the transactions being compared."
19\. A reading of the provisions of Rule 10B(2) of the Rules shows that
uncontrolled transaction has to be compared with international transaction
having regard to the factors set out therein. Before us there is no dispute
that the TNMM is the most appropriate method for determining the ALP of the
international transaction. The disputes are with regard to the comparability
of the comparable relied upon by the TPO.
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 14 of 30
20\. In this regard we find that the provisions of law pointed out by the ld.
counsel for the assessee as well as the decisions referred to by the ld.
counsel for the assessee clearly lay down the principle that the turnover
filter is an important criteria in choosing the comparables. The assessee's
turnover is Rs. 47,46,66,638. It would therefore fall within the category of
companies in the range of turnover between 1 crore and 200 crores (as laid
down in the case of Genesis Integrating Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT, ITA
No.1231/Bang/2010) . Thus, companies having turnover of more than 200 crores
have to be eliminated from the list of comparables as laid down in several
decisions referred to by the ld. counsel for the assessee. Applying those
tests, the following companies will have to be excluded from the list of 26
comparables drawn by the TPO viz., Turnover Rs.
           (1) Flextronics Software Systems Ltd.            848.66 crores
           (2) iGate Global Solutions Ltd.                  747.27 crores
           (3) Mindtree Ltd.                                590.39 crores
           (4) Persistent Systems Ltd.                      293.74 crores
           (5) Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd.       343.57 crores
           (6) Tata Elxsi Ltd.                              262.58 crores
           (7) Wipro Ltd.                                   961.09 crores.
           (8) Infosys Technologies Ltd.                    13149 crores."
12\. Respectfully following the decision of the Tribunal referred to above, we
hold that the comparables chosen by the TPO at Sl.Nos. 6,9,10,17,18, 22, 24 &
26 have to be excluded as comparables for the purpose of determining the ALP
of the impugned transaction in this appeal.
13\. As far as comparables at Sl.Nos.1, 2 & 3 of the list of comparables
chosen by the TPO are concerned, this Tribunal in the case of Trilogy E-
Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has taken a view that these
companies are not comparable to the software service provider companies.
The following are the relevant observations of the Tribunal in this regard:-
> IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 15 of 30 "(b) Avani Cimcon Technologies Ltd.
> As far as this company is concerned, the plea of the Assessee has been that
> this company is functionally different from the assessee. Based on the
> information available in the company's website, which reveals that this
> company has developed a software product by name "DXchange", it was
> submitted that this company would have revenue from software product sales
> apart from rendering of software services and therefore is functionally
> different from the assessee. It was further submitted that the Mumbai Bench
> of the Tribunal to the decision in the case of Telcordia Technologies Pvt.
> Ltd. v. ACIT - ITA No.7821/Mum/2011 wherein the Tribunal accepted the
> assessee's contention that this company has revenue from software product
> and observed that in the absence of segmental details, Avani Cincom cannot
> be considered as comparable to the assessee who was rendering software
> development services only and it was held as follows:-
> "7.8 Avani Cincom Technologies Ltd. ('Avani Cincom'):
> Here in this case also the segmental details of operating income of IT
> services and sale of software products have not been provided so as to see
> whether the profit ratio of this company can be taken into consideration for
> comparing the case that of assessee. In absence of any kind of details
> provided by the TPO, we are unable to persuade ourselves to include it as
> comparable party. Learned CIT DR has provided a copy of profit loss account
> which shows that mainly its earning is from software exports, however, the
> details of percentage of export of products or services have not been given.
> We, therefore, reject this company also from taking into consideration for
> comparability analysis."
> It was also highlighted that the margin of this company at 52.59% which
> represents abnormal circumstances and profits. The following figures were
> placed before us:-
    Particulars         FYs 05-06       06-07        07-08         08-09
    Operating Revenue 21761611        35477523      29342809      28039851
    Operating Expns.    16417661      23249646      23359186      31108949
    Operating Profit      5343950     12227877      5983623       (3069098)
    Operating Margin      32.55%       52.59%        25.62%       - 9.87%
                                               IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                             Page 16 of 30
> 40\. It was submitted that this company has made unusually high profit
> during the financial year 06-07. The operating revenues increased 63.03%
> which indicates that it was an extraordinary year for this company. Even the
> growth of software industry for the previous year as per NASSCOM was 32%.
> The growth rate of this company was double the industry average. In view of
> the above, it was argued that this company ought to have been rejected as a
> comparable.
41\. We have given a careful consideration to the submissions made on behalf
of the Assessee and are of the view that the same deserves to be accepted. The
reasons given by the Assessee for excluding this company as comparable are
found to be acceptable. The decision of ITAT (Mumbai) in the case of Telcordia
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT (supra) also supports the plea of the assessee.
We therefore accept the plea of the Assessee to reject this company as a
comparable.
(c) Celestial Labs Ltd.
42\. As far as this company is concerned, the stand of the assessee is that it
is absolutely a research & development company. In this regard, the following
submissions were made:-
• In the Director's Report (page 20 of PB-Il), it is stated that "the company
has applied for Income Tax concession for in-house R&D centre expenditure at
Hyderabad under section 35(2AB) of the Income Tax Act."
• As per the Notes to Accounts - Schedule 15, under "Deferred Revenue
Expenditure" (page 31 of PB-II), it is mentioned that, "Expenditure incurred
on research and development of new products has been treated as deferred
revenue expenditure and the same has been written off in 10 years equally
yearly installments from the year in which it is incurred."
• An amount of Rs. 11,692,020/- has been debited to the Profit and Loss
Account as "Deferred Revenue Expenditure" (page 30 of PB-II). This amounts to
nearly 8.28 percent of the sales of this company.
It was therefore submitted that the acceptance of this company as a comparable
for the reason that it is into pure software development activities and is not
engaged in R&D activities is bad in law.
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 17 of 30
43\. Further reference was also made to the decision of the Mumbai Bench of
the Tribunal in the case of Teva Pharma Private Ltd. v. Addl. CIT - ITA
No.6623/Mum/2011 (for AY 2007-08) in which the comparability of this company
for clinical trial research segment. The relevant extract of discussion
regarding this company is as follows:
"The learned D.R. however drew our attention to page-389 of the paper book
which is an extract from the Directors report which reads as follows:
'The Company has developed a de novo drug design tool "CELSUITE" to drug
discovery in, finding the lead molecules for drug discovery and protected the
IPR by filing under the copy if sic (of) right/patent act. (Apprised and
funded by Department of Science and Technology New Delhi) based on our
insilico expertise (applying bio- informatics tools). The Company has
developed a molecule to treat Leucoderma and multiple cancer and protected the
IPR by filing the patent. The patent details have been discussed with Patent
officials and the response is very favorable. The cloning and purification
under wet lab procedures are under progress with our collaborative Institute,
Department of Microbiology, Osmania University, Hyderabad. In the industrial
biotechnology area, the company has signed the Technology transfer agreement
with IMTECH CHANDIGARH (a very reputed CSIR organization) to manufacture and
market initially two Enzymes, Alpha Amylase and Alkaline Protease in India and
overseas. The company is planning to set up a biotechnology facility to
manufacture industrial enzymes. This facility would also include the research
laboratories for carrying out further R & D activities to develop new
candidates' drug molecules and license them to Interested Pharma and Bio
Companies across the GLOBE. The proposed Facility will be set up in Genome
Valley at Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh.' According to the learned D.R.
celestial labs is also in the field of research in pharmaceutical products and
should be considered as comparable. As rightly submitted by the learned
counsel for the Assessee, the discovery is in relation to a software discovery
of new drugs. Moreover the company also is owner of the IPR. There is however
a reference to development of a molecule to treat cancer using bio-
informatics tools for which patenting process was also being pursued. As
explained earlier it is a diversified company and therefore cannot be
considered IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 18 of 30 as comparable functionally
with that of the Assessee. There has been no attempt made to identify and
eliminate and make adjustment of the profit margins so that the difference in
functional comparability can be eliminated. By not resorting to such a process
of making adjustment, the TPO has rendered this company as not qualifying for
comparability. We therefore accept the plea of the Assessee in this regard.' "
44\. It was submitted that the learned DR in the above case vehemently argued
that this company is into research in pharmaceutical products. The ITAT
concluded that this company is owner of IPR, it has software for discovery of
new drugs and has developed molecule to treat cancer. In the ultimate
analysis, the ITAT did not consider this company as a comparable in clinical
trial segment, for the reason that this company has diverse business. It was
submitted that, however, from the above extracts it is clear that this company
is not into software development activities, accordingly, this company should
be rejected as a comparable being functionally different.
45\. From the material available on record, it transpires that the TPO has
accepted that up to AY 06-07 this company was classified as a Research and
Development company. According to the TPO in AY 07-08 this company has been
classified as software development service provider in the Capitaline/Prowess
database as well as in the annual report of this company. The TPO has relied
on the response from this company to a notice u/s.133(6) of the Act in which
it has said that it is in the business of providing software development
services. The Assessee in reply to the proposal of the AO to treat this as a
comparable has pointed out that this company provides software
products/services as well as bioinformatics services and that the segmental
data for each activity is not available and therefore this company should not
be treated as comparable. Besides the above, the Assessee has point out to
several references in the annual report for 31.3.2007 highlighting the fact
that this company was develops biotechnology products and provides related
software development services. The TPO called for segmental data at the entity
level from this company. The TPO also called for description of software
development process. In response to the request of the TPO this company in its
reply dated 29.3.2010 has given details of employees working in software
development but it is not clear as to whether any segmental data was given or
not. Besides the above there is no other detail in the TPO's order as to the
nature of software development services performed by the Assessee. Celestial
labs had come out with a IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 19 of 30 public issue
of shares and in that connection issued Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) in
which the business of this company was explained as to clinical research. The
TPO wanted to know as to whether the primary business of this company is
software development services as indicated in the annual report for FY 06-07
or clinical research and manufacture of bio products and other products as
stated in the DRHP. There is no reference to any reply by Celestial labs to
the above clarification of the TPO. The TPO without any basis has however
concluded that the business mentioned in the DRHP are the services or
businesses that would be started by utilizing the funds garnered though the
Initial Public Offer (IPO) and thus in no way connected with business
operations of the company during FY 06-07. We are of the view that in the
light of the submissions made by the Assessee and the fact that this company
was basically/admittedly in clinical research and manufacture of bio products
and other products, there is no clear basis on which the TPO concluded that
this company was mainly in the business of providing software development
services. We therefore accept the plea of the Assessee that this company ought
not to have been considered as comparable.
(d) KALS Information Systems Ltd.
46\. As far as this company is concerned, the contention of the assessee is
that the aforesaid company has revenues from both software development and
software products. Besides the above, it was also pointed out that this
company is engaged in providing training. It was also submitted that as per
the annual repot, the salary cost debited under the software development
expenditure was Rs.45,93,351. The same was less than 25% of the software
services revenue and therefore the salary cost filter test fails in this case.
Reference was made to the Pune Bench Tribunal's decision of the ITAT in the
case of Bindview India Private Limited Vs. DCI, ITA No. ITA No 1386/PN/1O
wherein KALS as comparable was rejected for AY 2006-07 on account of it being
functionally different from software companies. The relevant extract are as
follows:
> "16. Another issue relating to selection of comparables by the TPO is
> regarding inclusion of Kals Information System Ltd. The assessee has
> objected to its inclusion on the basis that functionally the company is not
> comparable. With reference to pages 185-186 of the Paper Book, it is
> explained that the said company is engaged in development of software
> products and services and is not comparable to software IT(TP)A
> No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 20 of 30 development services provided by the
> assessee. The appellant has submitted an extract on pages 185-186 of the
> Paper Book from the website of the company to establish that it is engaged
> in providing of I T enabled services and that the said company is into
> development of software products, etc. All these aspects have not been
> factually rebutted and, in our view, the said concern is liable to be
> excluded from the final set of comparables, and thus on this aspect,
> assessee succeeds."
Based on all the above, it was submitted on behalf of the assessee that KALS
Information Systems Limited should be rejected as a comparable.
47\. We have given a careful consideration to the submission made on behalf of
the Assessee. We find that the TPO has drawn conclusions on the basis of
information obtained by issue of notice u/s.133(6) of the Act. This
information which was not available in public domain could not have been used
by the TPO, when the same is contrary to the annual report of this company as
highlighted by the Assessee in its letter dated 21.6.2010 to the TPO. We also
find that in the decision referred to by the learned counsel for the Assessee,
the Mumbai Bench of ITAT has held that this company was developing software
products and not purely or mainly software development service provider. We
therefore accept the plea of the Assessee that this company is not comparable.
(e) Accel Transmatic Ltd.
48\. With regard to this company, the complaint of the assessee is that this
company is not a pure software development service company. It is further
submitted that in a Mumbai Tribunal Decision of Capgemini India (F) Ltd v Ad.
CIT 12 Taxman.com 51, the DRP accepted the contention of the assessee that
Accel Transmatic should be rejected as comparable. The relevant observations
of DRP as extracted by the ITAT in its order are as follows:
> "In regard to Accel Transmatics Ltd. the assessee submitted the company
> profile and its annual report for financial year 2005-06 from which the DRP
> noted that the business activities of the company were as under.
> (i) Transmatic system - design, development and manufacture of multi
> function kiosks Queue management system, ticket vending system IT(TP)A
> No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 21 of 30
> (ii) Ushus Technologies - offshore development centre for embedded software,
> net work system, imaging technologies, outsourced product development
> (iii) Accel IT Academy (the net stop for engineers)- training services in
> hardware and networking, enterprise system management, embedded system, VLSI
> designs, CAD/CAM/BPO
> (iv) Accel Animation Studies software services for 2D/3D animation, special
> effect, erection, game asset development.
> 4.3 On careful perusal of the business activities of Accel Transmatic Ltd.
> DRP agreed with the assessee that the company was functionally different
> from the assessee company as it was engaged in the services in the form of
> ACCEL IT and ACCEL animation services for 2D and 3D animation and therefore
> assessee's claim that this company was functionally different was accepted.
> DRP therefore directed the Assessing Officer to exclude ACCEL Transmatic
> Ltd. from the final list of comparables for the purpose of determining TNMM
> margin."
> 49\. Besides the above, it was pointed out that this company has related
> party transactions which is more than the permitted level and therefore
> should not be taken for comparability purposes. The submission of the ld.
> counsel for the assessee was that if the above company should not be
> considered as comparable. The ld. DR, on the other hand, relied on the order
> of the TPO.
> 50\. We have considered the submissions and are of the view that the plea of
> the assessee that the aforesaid company should not be treated as comparables
> was considered by the Tribunal in Capgemini India Ltd (supra) where the
> assessee was software developer. The Tribunal, in the said decision referred
> to by the ld. counsel for the assessee, has accepted that this company was
> not comparable in the case of the assessees engaged in software development
> services business. Accepting the argument of the ld. counsel for the
> assessee, we hold that the aforesaid company should be excluded as
> comparables."
14\. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Tribunal, comparables at
Sl.Nos.1, 2 & 3 of the list of comparables chosen by the TPO have to be
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 22 of 30 excluded for the purpose of
comparison while determining the ALP of the impugned transaction in this
appeal.
15\. As far as comparable at Sl.No.14 viz., Lucid Software Ltd. from the list
of comparables chosen by the TPO is concerned, we find that the Mumbai Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of Telcordia Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
while dealing with the case of software services provider like the assessee,
considered the comparability of Lucid Software Ltd. with similar software
services provider and the Tribunal held as follows:-
> "7.2 Lucid Software Limited It has been submitted before us that this
> company, besides doing software development services, is also involved in
> development of software product. The learned AR has tried to distinguish by
> pointing out that product development expenditure in this case is around 39%
> of the capital employed by the said company, and, therefore, such a company
> cannot be considered as tested party. Even as per the information received
> in response to notice under Section 133(6), the company has described its
> business as software development company or pure software development
> service provider. This information itself is very vague as the segmental
> details of operating revenue has not been made available to examine how much
> is the ratio of sale from software product and sale of software service and
> development. Looking to the fact that it has developed a software product
> named as "Muulam" which is used for civil engineering structures and the
> product development expenditure itself is substantial vis-a-vis the capital
> employed by the said company, this criteria for being taken as comparable
> party, gets vitiated. For the purpose of comparability analysis, it is
> essential that the characteristics and the functions are by and large
> similar as that of the assessee company and T.P. analysis/study can be made
> with fewest and most reliable adjustment. If a company has employed heavy
> capital in development of a product then profitability in the sale of
> product would be entirely different from the company, who is involved in
> service sector. Therefore, IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 23 of 30 this
> company cannot be treated as having same function and profitability ratio.
> In our view, due to non-availability of full information about the segmental
> details as to how much is the sale of product and how much is from the
> services, therefore, this entity cannot be taken into account for
> comparability analysis for determining arms length price in the case of the
> assessee."
16\. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal,
which is also in relation to A.Y. 2007-08, we are of the view that the said
company is to be excluded as a comparable while determining the ALP of the
international transaction impugned in this appeal.
17\. As far as companies at Sl.No.7 & 11 of the list of comparables chosen by
the TPO are concerned, it is not in dispute that the related party transaction
of these comparable companies was more than 15%. This Tribunal in the case of
24/7 Customer Com Pvt. Ltd., ITA No.227/Bang/2010 (supra), had held that where
comparables have related party transactions which are in excess of 15% of its
total receipts, then such companies cannot be chosen for the purpose of
comparison.
Following are the relevant observations of the Tribunal:-
> "13.0 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In respect of the ground raised at S.No.1
> regarding acceptance of comparable companies having related party
> transactions as proposed by the TPO, the learned counsel for the assessee
> argued that the transfer pricing regulations do not stipulate any minimum
> limit of related party transactions which form the threshold for exclusion
> as a comparable. In this regard, the learned counsel for the assessee
> objected to the TPO's setting a limit of 25% on related party transactions.
> He objected to the inclusion of comparables being related party transactions
> in excess of 15% of sales / revenue. In support of this proposition, the
> learned counsel IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 24 of 30 for the assessee
> placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Bench of the ITAT, Delhi in
> the case of Sony India (P) Ltd. reported in 2008-TIOL-439-ITAT-Delhi
> dt.23.12.2008. The learned counsel for the assessee drew our attention to
> para 115.3 of the order wherein the Tribunal has held that -
> " ...........We are further of the view that an entity can be taken as
> uncontrolled if its related party transactions do not exceed 10 to 15% of
> total revenue. Within the above limit, transactions cannot be held to be
> significant to influence the profitability of the comparables. For the
> purpose of comparison what is to be judged is the impact of the related
> party transactions vis-à-vis sales and not profit since profit of an
> enterprise is influenced by large number of other factors ......"
> Respectfully following the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Sony
> India (P) Ltd (supra), the Assessing Officer / TPO are directed to exclude
> after due verification those comparables from the list with related party
> transactions or controlled transactions in excess of 15% of total revenues
> for the financial year 2003-
> 04."
18\. In view of the above, the aforesaid two comparables should also be
excluded for the purpose of comparison while determining the ALP of the
international transaction in question.
19\. As far as Sl.No.16 viz., Megasoft Ltd. of the list of comparables chosen
by the TPO is concerned, this Tribunal in the case of Trilogy E-
Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) had held that only segmental data
should be taken for the purpose of comparison. Following are the relevant
observations of the Tribunal:-
> "37. The next plea of the Assessee is that if at all this company is
> considered as a comparable then the segmental margin of 23.11% (which is the
> margin for software service segment) alone should be considered for
> comparability. On the above submission, we find that the TPO considered the
> segmental IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 25 of 30 margin (Software service
> segment) in the case of Geometric, Kals Info systems, R Systems, Sasken
> Communication and Tata Elxsi.
Before DRP the Assessee pointed out that the segmental margin of 23.11% alone
should be taken for comparability. The DRP has not given any specific finding
on the above plea of the Assessee. Perusal of the order of the TPO shows that
the TPO relied on information which was given by this company in which this
company had explained that it has two divisions viz., BLUEALLY DIVISION and
XIUS-BCGI DIVISION. Xius- BCGI Division does the business of product software
(developing software). This company develops packaged products for the
wireless and convergent telecom industry. These products are sold as packaged
products to customers. While implementing these standardized products,
customers may request the company to customize products or reconfigure
products to fit into their business environment. Thereupon the company takes
up the job of customizing the packaged software. The company also explained
that 30 to 40% of the product software (software developed) would constitute
packaged product and around 50% to 60% would constitute customized
capabilities and expenses related to travelling, boarding and lodging expense.
Based on the above reply, the TPO proceeded to hold that the comparable
company was mainly into customization of software products developed (which
was akin to software development) internally and that the portion of the
revenue from development of software sold and used for customization was less
than 25% of the overall revenues. The TPO therefore held that less than 25% of
the revenues of the comparable are from software products and therefore the
comparable satisfied TPO's filter of more than 75% of revenues from software
development services. Having drawn the above conclusion, the TPO did not
bother to quantify the revenues which can be attributed to software product
development and software development service but adopted the margin of this
company at the entity level. In terms of Rule 10B(3)(b) of the Rules, an
uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to an international transaction
if--
(i) none of the differences, if any, between the transactions being compared,
or between the enterprises entering into such transactions are likely to
materially affect the price or cost charged or paid in, or the profit arising
from, such transactions in the open market; or
(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
effects of such differences.
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 26 of 30
38\. Neither the TPO nor the DRP have noticed that there is bound to be a
difference between the Assessee and Megasoft and the profit arising to the
Megasoft as a result of the existence of the software product segment and no
finding has been given that reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to
eliminate the material effects of such differences. For this reason, we are
inclined to hold that the profit margin of 23.11% which is the margin of the
software service segment be taken for comparability. In view of the above
conclusion, we do not wish to go into the question as to whether less than 25%
of the revenues of the comparable are from software products and therefore the
comparable satisfied TPO's filter of more than 75% of revenues from software
development services."
20\. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Tribunal, segmental margins in
so far as it relates to providing software services by Megasoft alone be taken
for the purpose of comparison.
21\. Out of the 26 comparables chosen by the TPO and after excluding the
comparables referred to in the earlier paragraphs, the comparable companies
that would remain for comparison and the arithmetic mean of the remaining
comparables would be as follows:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 27 of 30
22\. After giving due adjustment to the +/- 5% net margin under second proviso
to section 92C(2) of the Act, the upper and lower margin would be as follows:-
23\. As we have already seen, the net profit to cost earned by the assessee is
12.21%, which is well within the +/- 5% range of the arithmetic mean of the
comparables viz., 15.01% and therefore no TP adjustment can be made, as the
price received by the assessee has to be considered as at arm's length. We are
therefore of the view that the addition made by the AO by way of TP adjustment
cannot be sustained and accordingly the same is directed to be deleted.
24\. In view of the above conclusion, we have not gone into the specific
issues raised by the assessee in ground Nos. 1, 2, 2.1 to 2.14, 3 to 6 of the
grounds of appeal.
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 28 of 30
25\. The remaining grounds viz., grounds No. 7 to 10 raised by the assessee
are with regard to the computation of deduction u/s. 10A of the Act. The
assessee claimed a deduction of Rs.2,67,59,354/- under Section 10A of the Act.
In computing the deduction, the assessee had not reduced telecommunication
expenses of Rs.62,35,424/- and travelling expenses of Rs.40,17,354/- from the
export turnover as no part of the expenditure was attributable to the delivery
of software outside India. The Assessing Officer, however, proceeded to
recompute the deduction by once again reducing the said amount of
Rs.1,02,52,778/- from export turnover but not from total turnover and thereby
disallowed the 10A deduction to the extent of Rs.12,42,705/-. The assessee's
submission is that no part of the above expenditure was attributable to the
delivery of software outside India and in the alternative, if the same is
reduced from export turnover, it should also be reduced from total turnover.
The alternative submission is supported by the decision of the Hon'ble High
Court of Karnataka in CIT v. Tata EIxsi Ltd [2012] 349 ITR 98 (Karn).
26\. As far as the alternative claim is concerned, we find that the Hon'ble
High Court of Karnataka in the case of Tata EIxsi Ltd (supra) has held that
while computing deduction under section 10A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the
"Act"), expenditure incurred by the assessee, if excluded from the export
turnover ("ET"), should also be excluded from the total turnover ("TT"). It
has been held that, • The TT would have two components - ET and Domestic
Turnover. Therefore, if the ET in the numerator is to be arrived at after
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 29 of 30 excluding certain expenses these
should also be excluded in computing ET as a component of TT in the
denominator.
• Though there is no definition of TT in section 10A of the Act, there is
nothing in the said section to mandate that what is excluded from the
numerator and would nevertheless form part of the denominator.
• The principle laid out in judgements rendered in context of section 80HHC of
the Act will equally apply while interpreting section 10A of the Act since the
principle underlying both these provisions is the same.
27\. In view of the aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka,
we are of the view that the grievance of the assessee projected in the
aforesaid grounds would get redressed, if the AO is directed to reduce the
communication and travel expenses from the export turnover as well as the
total turnover, while computing deduction u/s. 10A of the Act.
We hold and direct accordingly. Grounds No.7 to10 are thus partly allowed.
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
    6.   Guard file
                                                By order
                                       Senior Private Secretary
                                          ITAT, Bangalore.
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
order dated 11.10.2011 passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Income-tax Act,
1961 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act" in short"].
2\. Grounds 1 to 6 raised by the assessee in its grounds of appeal are with
regard to the addition made by the AO by way of adjustment to arm's length
price (ALP) in respect of an international transaction carried out by IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 2 of 30 the assessee with its Associated Enterprise
(AE) in terms of section 92A of the Act.
3\. The facts with regard to the aforesaid addition are as follows. The
assessee is a company. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Witness Systems Inc.
of America. The assessee is a captive service provider to its holding company,
Witness Systems Inc. [WSI]. The assessee carried out software designing
research and development activities for development of software, software
quality assistance, testing, software maintenance and support function (which
includes technical support, documentation, it integration, configuration
management) for WSI. During the previous year, the assessee received the
following amounts from its AE for the various services that it provided to the
AE.
4\. In this appeal, we are concerned only with transfer pricing adjustment
made by the TPO in respect of the receipts by the assessee for providing
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
order dated 11.10.2011 passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Income-tax Act,
1961 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act" in short"].
2\. Grounds 1 to 6 raised by the assessee in its grounds of appeal are with
regard to the addition made by the AO by way of adjustment to arm's length
price (ALP) in respect of an international transaction carried out by IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 2 of 30 the assessee with its Associated Enterprise
(AE) in terms of section 92A of the Act.
3\. The facts with regard to the aforesaid addition are as follows. The
assessee is a company. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Witness Systems Inc.
of America. The assessee is a captive service provider to its holding company,
Witness Systems Inc. [WSI]. The assessee carried out software designing
research and development activities for development of software, software
quality assistance, testing, software maintenance and support function (which
includes technical support, documentation, it integration, configuration
management) for WSI. During the previous year, the assessee received the
following amounts from its AE for the various services that it provided to the
AE.
4\. In this appeal, we are concerned only with transfer pricing adjustment
made by the TPO in respect of the receipts by the assessee for providing
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
order dated 11.10.2011 passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Income-tax Act,
1961 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act" in short"].
2\. Grounds 1 to 6 raised by the assessee in its grounds of appeal are with
regard to the addition made by the AO by way of adjustment to arm's length
price (ALP) in respect of an international transaction carried out by IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 2 of 30 the assessee with its Associated Enterprise
(AE) in terms of section 92A of the Act.
3\. The facts with regard to the aforesaid addition are as follows. The
assessee is a company. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Witness Systems Inc.
of America. The assessee is a captive service provider to its holding company,
Witness Systems Inc. [WSI]. The assessee carried out software designing
research and development activities for development of software, software
quality assistance, testing, software maintenance and support function (which
includes technical support, documentation, it integration, configuration
management) for WSI. During the previous year, the assessee received the
following amounts from its AE for the various services that it provided to the
AE.
4\. In this appeal, we are concerned only with transfer pricing adjustment
made by the TPO in respect of the receipts by the assessee for providing
software designing and development services. The assessee filed transfer
pricing analysis justifying the payment that it had received from its AE as at
arm's length. It is not in dispute that the most appropriate method for
computation of ALP is the Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM). The net
margin to cost was chosen as the Profit Level Indicator IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 3 of 30 (PLI) for the purpose of comparison. The
assessee's PLI was computed as follows:-
5\. The assessee chose 11 comparable companies and the arithmetic mean of
those comparables was as follows:-
6\. The assessee adopted the following filters while conducting its TP study:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 4 of 30
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
Per N.V. Vasudevan, Judicial Member This appeal by the assessee is against the
order dated 11.10.2011 passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Income-tax Act,
1961 [hereinafter referred to as "the Act" in short"].
2\. Grounds 1 to 6 raised by the assessee in its grounds of appeal are with
regard to the addition made by the AO by way of adjustment to arm's length
price (ALP) in respect of an international transaction carried out by IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 2 of 30 the assessee with its Associated Enterprise
(AE) in terms of section 92A of the Act.
3\. The facts with regard to the aforesaid addition are as follows. The
assessee is a company. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Witness Systems Inc.
of America. The assessee is a captive service provider to its holding company,
Witness Systems Inc. [WSI]. The assessee carried out software designing
research and development activities for development of software, software
quality assistance, testing, software maintenance and support function (which
includes technical support, documentation, it integration, configuration
management) for WSI. During the previous year, the assessee received the
following amounts from its AE for the various services that it provided to the
AE.
4\. In this appeal, we are concerned only with transfer pricing adjustment
made by the TPO in respect of the receipts by the assessee for providing
software designing and development services. The assessee filed transfer
pricing analysis justifying the payment that it had received from its AE as at
arm's length. It is not in dispute that the most appropriate method for
computation of ALP is the Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM). The net
margin to cost was chosen as the Profit Level Indicator IT(TP)A
No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 3 of 30 (PLI) for the purpose of comparison. The
assessee's PLI was computed as follows:-
5\. The assessee chose 11 comparable companies and the arithmetic mean of
those comparables was as follows:-
6\. The assessee adopted the following filters while conducting its TP study:-
IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011  Page 4 of 30
28\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
Pronounced in the open court on this 22nd day of February, 2013.
                     Sd/-                                             Sd/-
    ( N. BARATHVAJA SANKAR )                             ( N.V. VASUDEVAN )
                Vice President                             Judicial Member
    Bangalore,
    Dated, the 22nd February, 2013.
    Ds/-
                                                   IT(TP)A No.1366/Bang/2011
                                Page 30 of 30
    Copy to:
    1.   Appellant
    2.   Respondent
    3.   CIT
    4.   CIT(A)
    5.   DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
