Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Kolkata
Dci India Ltd., Kolkata vs Dcit,Cir-10(1) Kolkata, Kolkata on 5 April, 2017
                       IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                                Kolkata Bench, KOLKATA
                                     (Bench- "C")
               BEFORE SHRI N. V. VASUDEVAN JUDICIAL MEMBER AND
                     SHRI M. BALAGANESH, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER,
                                     I.T. A.No. 126 /Kol/2017
                                    Assessment Years: 2010-11
    DIC India Ltd.                                 DCIT, CIR-10(1), Kolkata
                                         -Vs-
    [PAN :AABBCC0703C]
    (Appellant)                                    (Respondent)
             For the Appellant              Sri D. S. Damle, FCA
             For the Respondent             Sri G. Mallikarjuna, CIT, DR.
             Date of Hearing                22.03.2017
             Date of Pronouncement          05.04.2017
                                           ORDER
Per M. BALAGANESH, AM This is an appeal preferred by the assessee against the
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
referred to as the "ld. CIT") u/s 263 of the Income Tax Act. 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") relating to Assessment Year 2010-11.
2\. The only issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld. CIT
was justified in invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
3\. The brief facts of this issue is that the assessee filed the return of
income for the Asst Year 2010-11 declaring total income of Rs 26,57,00,956/-
on 22.9.2010. Later this return was revised on 14.4.2011 declaring total
income of Rs.
2
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
26,62,38,618/-. The assessment was completed u/s 143(3) read with section 144C
of the Act on 30.4.2014 determining total income at Rs 32,31,67,610/- pursuant
to the letter dated 7.4.2014 filed by the assessee stating that they are not
preferring to file objections before the Hon‟ble Dispute Resolution Panel
(DRP) against the proposed additions / disallowances and that they would. only
prefer regular appeal before the Ld. CITA. In the said assessment, a sum of Rs
4,87,70,886/- was added as per the order of the ld. TPO suggesting an upward
adjustment to Arm‟s Length Price (ALP) which admittedly included an addition
towards adjustment to ALP for payment of Royalty in the sum of Rs 82,88,935/-.
During the pendency of appeal before the ld. CITA, the ld. Administrative
Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT) sought to revise the assessment framed by the
ld. AO on 30.4.2014 by holding the same as erroneous and prejudicial to the
interests of the revenue in terms of section 263 of the Act.
4\. The ld. CIT issued a show cause notice u/s 263 of the Act to the assessee
on the ground that the Royalty Payment of Rs 6,42,47,978/- to its Associated
Enterprise (AE) (DIC Asia Pacific PTE Ltd of Singapore and DIC Corporation of
Japan) as revenue expenditure for using technical knowhow and upgrading
manufacturing technology and right to use the trade names and brand names and
reported in Form 3CEB as required u/s 92E of the Act. He observed that as per
detail submitted in Form 3CEB, Column No. 9 and agreement dated 1.7.2008
between DIC India Ltd and DIC Asia Pacific India Ltd of Singapore (Holding
Company having 71.27% shares) and DIC Corporation of Japan (Ultimate Holding
Company) established that the payment of royalty was in composite manner and
the charges of all (i) Technical Know-how (ii) Licences (iii) Trademarks (iv)
Brand name, was paid to acquire the business/ commercial rights of
intellectual property in the form of intangible assets for the period of seven
years. He stated that assessee has  3 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment
Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
acquired the aforesaid intangible rights on technical knowhow for upgrading
manufacturing technology.
4.1. The ld. CIT further observed on scrutiny of copy of the agreement
relating to „Royalty payment‟ dated 1.7.2008 , that there was no embargo on
the assessee to continue to manufacture the product in question even after
expiry of the agreement. It was also observed that the assessee has been
upgrading their existing plant and machineries to make their finished products
more viable for the market from time to time. For example he noticed that
assessee has annexed various accessories in the name of instrumentation where
no additional depreciation is allowed, being the additional accessories of
existing plant & machineries. This kind of modification of P&M is the effect
of technical know- how for upgrading the manufacturing technology. The said
royalty payment involves also setting up of P&M due to regular change in set
up of machineries. In this way the technical knowhow for upgrading the
manufacturing technology is helping the assessee to enter into the new
dimension of the business from time to time. It is fact that these aspects
were not brought on record in earlier occasions and the Royalty payment has
been allowed as revenue expenditure. Hence the doctrine of res-judicata can‟t
be applied here in the case of assessee and should. not be treated as settled
for ever. The ld. CIT placed reliance on the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court
in the case of Alembi Chemical Works Co. Ltd vs CIT reported in (1989) 177 ITR
377 (SC) held. that the royalty payment made by the assessee needs to be
construed as capital in nature. Therefore, he issued show cause notice as to
why the same should. not be treated as capital expenditure and depreciation at
25% be granted to the assessee by treating the same as intangible asset of
enduring nature and since this was not done by the ld. AO in his order, it
makes the order of ld. AO erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the
interest of the revenue.
4
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
5\. The assessee submitted that During the year under consideration the
assessee paid royalty of Rs.6,33,74,362/- and Rs.8,73,616/- to DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd.
Singapore & DIC Corporation, Japan respectively. The assessee stated that the
payments were made in the course and for the purposes of carrying on ordinary
business of manufacture and sale of printing inks. It stated that it did not
purchase and/or acquire any technology or knowhow pursuant to the royalty
payments. No intangible asset was purchase by the company nor was these
payments expected to give benefit of any enduring nature. The royalties were
payable on a monthly/quarterly basis aligned to the sales effected and were in
the nature of periodical payments. The quantum of royalty payment was
commensurate with sales achieved in given quarters meaning thereby that the
royalty paid was directly correlated with the assessee‟s regular trade i.e.
the sales and therefore the benefit derived from the same could not be said to
be of enduring nature. It is also not a case one-time lump sum payment made by
assessee for transfer of technology or knowhow which may raise a question as
to the nature of expense.
In terms of the agreement dated 01.07.2008 with DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. the
assessee was allowed the use of technology & trademarks in the manufacture &
sale of printing inks only in the Indian Territory. In consideration the
assessee was required to pay royalty @ 2% of the net sale printing inks
subject to certain conditions. For the relevant AY 2010-11, pursuant to the
aforesaid agreement  5 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s.
DIC India Ltd.
dated 01.07.2008, the assessee had paid royalty of Rs.6,33,74,362/- to DIC
Asia Pacific Pvt Ltd.
Similarly the assessee had also entered into a technical collaboration
agreement dated 01.04.2007 with DIC Corporation, Japan; in terms of which the
assessee was permitted to use the technology for manufacture & sale of poly-
resins only in Indian territory. In consideration for use of technology, the
assessee was required to pay royalty @ 3 of the net sales of poly-resins to
DIC Corporation, Japan.
The assessee submitted that it did not purchase the ownership rights in the
technology form DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. or DIC Corporation, Japan but it was
granted only a non-transferable license to unitize the technological knowhow.
Under the license agreement, the assessee was not given the right to sub-
license, sell, transfer or allocate the technology to third parties. The
assessee never owned the technology and could not have registered the same in
its own name. As stated in the foregoing the assessee was granted only a non-
transferable license which is returnable to the licensor at the end of the
license period. The royalty paid is directly commensurate with the products
sold by the company.
5.1. The assessee replied that in the impugned notice it is alleged that the
assessee had acquired the licensed information in form of business/commercial
rights and therefore it constituted intangible asset of the assessee. it is
submitted that the aforesaid observation is totally incorrect and in
contradiction to the material facts  6 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment
Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
of the case and the extant terms of the License Agreements. On perusal of the
terms & conditions of the license Agreement dated 01.07.2008 with DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd. it would be noted that the license was a non-transferable
non-
exclusive license granted to the assessee for limited use within the territory
of India and that too for licensed period. It referred to the Clause 2.1 of
the agreement wherein it is provided that the licensor has granted DIC India
Limited a non-exclusive license to use the licensed information within the
territory including improvements throughout the tenure of the agreement of 7
years. Clause10.2 of the agreement also provides that on termination of the
Agreement, the assessee shall cease to use the License Information and shall
deliver the Licensed Information, if any, in tangible form back to DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd. along with any copies thereof. The aforesaid terms of the
Agreement therefore make it evidently clear that the licensed information was
not acquired or purchased by the assessee outrightly. Instead the case is
exactly opposite. The License Agreement provided only for the use of technical
knowhow & information by the assessee which at all material times during the
period of license & even thereafter is to be owned by DIC Asia Pacific Pte
Ltd. The royalty paid by the assessee is only a "license fee" for use of
technical knowhow and not the price for acquisition of a "capital assets". The
royalty paid, without an iota of doubt was therefore revenue in character and
hence fully deductible from the profits of the business. On appreciation of
these material facts therefore the AO rightly allowed the deduction  7
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
of these material facts therefore the AO rightly allowed the deduction for
royalty paid as revenue expenditure. The assessee also stated that it may also
be relevant to invite attention to Clause 2.2 of the agreement which states
that DIC India Limited is granted a non-exclusive right to sell the products
in any countries except the countries where parent company has its plant, its
subsidiaries or other joint venture arrangements for manufacture of the
product, where parent company is engaged in the ordinary sale activity of the
products, and where parent company licenses the exclusive sale right to third
party. However, in the event parent company agrees in writing on prior written
request of DIC India Limited, it may export the products to such countries as
expected above. Clause 2.3 of the agreement further states that that DIC India
Limited is not granted a right to sub-
license to any third parties and shall not make the licensed information
available to any third parties. Similar terms & conditions as set out in the
License Agreement dated 01.07.2008 with DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. was present
in the Technical Collaboration Agreement dated 01.04.2007 with DIC,
Corporation Japan. The agreements with DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. & DIC,
Corporation Japan are therefore pure license agreements which granted mere
right of use of the licensed technical information. The assessee had neither
purchase any technology or knowhow nor did it derive any enduring benefit from
the royalty paid to the licensors. The royalty paid is therefore revenue in
nature and hence rightly  8 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11
M/s. DIC India Ltd.
allowed by the Assessing Officer as deductible expenditure under Section 137
of the Income-Tax Act,1961.
5.2. The assessee objected that in the impugned notice it has been further
alleged that the technology was licensed to the assessee for setting up
factory. It is submitted that the foregoing assertion is completely untrue and
is not borne out from the facts available on record. From the terms &
conditions mentioned in the License Agreement s it shall be observed that the
assessee was required to pay royalty for use of technical information, knowhow
and trade mark for certain period. The licensed information was not meant for
setting up factory but contained technical knowhow & designs to assist the
assessee in carrying on its existing business of manufacture of printing inks
and poly-resin.
It is stated in the impugned notice that by using the licensed information the
assessee was able to set up its plant & machinery to manufacture printing inks
or poly-resins and therefore derived an enduring benefit. The assessee submits
that this particular observation in factually incorrect & it also not relevant
to decide the nature of royalty payment. Technical knowhow & information
licensed to the assessee merely assisted the assessee to manufacture printing
inks & poly-resins.
In the circumstances it was understandable that the licensed information
contained technical knowhow concerning operations of plant & machineries to
manufacture of the licensed products. The fact that by using the technical
knowhow the assessee was able to use its plant & machinery more efficiently or
profitably  9 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India
Ltd.
cannot make the annual royalty payments as a percentage of sales to be capital
in nature.
Attention in this regard is made to the decision of the Apex Court in the case
of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs IAEC Pump Limited, reported in 232 ITR 316.
The facts and circumstances in that case were identical as those involved in
the assessee‟s case. In that case the technical knowhow was licensed to the
assessee for a period of 10 years non-transferable basis. The assessee in that
case was also not entitled to disclose the documents & information to any
third party. The AO treated the payment towards technical knowhow as capital
expense. On appeal the Apex Court held that the amount paid to the parent
company is only a "license fee" and not the price for acquisition of a
"capital asset". It was concluded that the entire payment constituted revenue
expenditure and addition made by the AO was deleted.
5.2.1. The assessee also placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT vs Bata India Limited in GA No.
3482 of 2013 dated 12.11.2014 . In the said case, the assessment framed u/s
143(3) the AO observed that the assessee made royalty payments pursuant to the
license agreement with foreign companies for use of technology and trademark
in the course of manufacture of footwear. The assessee paid royalty as a
percentage of the footwear manufactured & sold in the territory of India. The
license granted by the foreign company was non-transferable & exclusive to the
assessee and  10 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC
India Ltd.
returnable at the end of the tenure of the agreement. The assessee claimed the
royalty payments for use of technology & trademark as revenue expenditure. The
AO, however held that he royalty payment resulted in certain enduring benefit
to the assessee and treated 25% of the royalty expenses as capital
expenditure. On first appeal the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)-1,
Kolkata confirmed the addition. However on further appeal, the Tribunal
considering the aforesaid facts of the case held that the royalty payment was
entirely revenue in nature. The Tribunal noted that the license was for "use"
of technology and no "transfer" took place. The Tribunal also observed that
the license was only non-transferable and on expiry of license agreement the
assessee was required to return the technology and trademarks. Referring to
the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT Vs Hindustan Motors
Ltd (192 ITR 619), the ITAT allowed the assessee‟s appeal and deleted the
disallowance of 25% out of royalty payments. The Department preferred appeal
u/s 260A before the authorities had observed that the assessee did not derive
any enduring benefit and the agreement was for no-
transferable license to manufacture licensed products in India. In the
circumstance the appeal of the Revenue on this issue was dismissed. The CIT,
Kolkata-1 has not preferred further appeal before the Supreme Court and
therefore the issue has attained finality.
11
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
5.3. In view of the decisions of Hon‟ble Supreme Court and Hon‟ble
Jurisdictional High Court supra, it was submitted that the royalty of Rs
6,42,47,978/- paid by the assessee was revenue in nature and hence it was
rightly allowed deduction in respect of such payment from the profits of the
business by the ld. AO.
5.4. The assessee further submitted that the royalty was paid to its foreign
associated enterprises. The royalty payments made to these companies were
reported in transfer pricing report furnished in Form 3CEB &, this was
submitted along with the return of income. The Transfer Pricing Audit Report
containing information about royalty paid to foreign associate enterprises was
referred for transfer pricing scrutiny u/s 92CA(1) of the Act by the AO for
the A.Y. 2010-11.
In the course of transfer pricing scrutiny, the assessee was specifically
required by TPO to furnish details of royalty payments along with relevant
agreements with Associated Enterprises vide his letter dated 01.03.2012. In
response the assessee vide letter date 23.03.2012 furnished the details of
payment of royalty and copies of relevant agreements with the associated
enterprises. The TPO in his show cause notice date 15.01.2014 asked the
assessee to justify the arm‟s length value of the deduction claimed in respect
of royalty payment of Rs.6,42,47,978/- to associated enterprises from the
profits of the business. In response; detailed submissions dated 22.01.2014
were filed by the assessee. After examination of the facts, agreements with
DIC Corporation & DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, the TPO proposed a transfer
pricing adjustment of Rs.82,88,935/- on account of royalty payments in  12
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
the Transfer Pricing Order passed u/s 92CA(3) dated 29.01.2014. Meaning
thereby, the Transfer Pricing Officer did not find the deduction of royalty of
Rs.6,42,47,978/- claimed by way of revenue expenditure to be at arm‟s length
and royalty to the extent of Rs.82,88.935/- was proposed to be disallowed by
the Transfer Pricing Officer. Upon receipt of the transfer pricing order, the
AO again requisitioned the details of payment of royalty. Copies of the
agreements which were furnished before the TPO were again furnished before the
AO as well & detailed submissions were furnished about its allowability. After
making due enquiries and perusing the terms & conditions of the agreement the
AO in his impugned assessment order dated 30.04.2014 made the addition of
Rs.82,88,935/-
on account of royalty as proposed by the Transfer Pricing Officer.
In the facts and circumstances set out above, it shall therefore be
appreciated that due enquiry was carried out by the TPO as well as AO and on
obtaining assessee‟s explanation on this specific issue, the TPO proposed an
upward adjustment of Rs.82,88,935/- on account of royalty which was added back
by the AO while passing the final assessment order dated 30.04.2014. In the
circumstances invocation of revisionary powers on such issue is not
permissible.
6\. The ld. CIT ignored the submissions of the assessee and passed an order
u/s 263 of the Act on 26.12.2016 by setting aside the order of the ld. AO
terming it to be erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue,
with a direction to  13 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s.
DIC India Ltd.
examine and verify the above issue after giving sufficient opportunity of
being heard to the assessee. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us on
the following grounds:-
1) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the PCIT was
unjustified in law and on facts in holding that the assessment order u/s
143(3) dated 30.04.2014 was erroneous in so far as prejudicial to the interest
of the revenue even though on the facts and circumstances of the case the
assessment order was neither erroneous nor prejudicial to the interest of the
revenue.
2) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, in spite of the
fact that the company's representative had appeared before the PCIT in
compliance to the show cause notice and made the written representation
countering the reasons set out in show cause notice, the PCIT was grossly
unjustified in passing the impugned order by ignoring the explanations put
forth.
3) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the PCIT was
grossly unjustified in considering the assessment order as erroneous on the
ground that royalty paid by the appellant constituted "capital expenditure"
and therefore only the depreciation was permissible in respect of royalty
payment.
4) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the finding
recorded by the CIT that royalty was paid for indefinite use of the technical
knowhow for manufacture of products was contrary to the provisions of the
agreement available on record and therefore the finding of the CIT that  14
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
royalty was capital expenditure liable for disallowance was contrary to the
jurisdictional facts...
5) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, since the
entire premise on which the CIT proceeded to hold the order of assessment to
be erroneous was factually incorrect, order of the CIT revising the assessment
in exercise of power u/s 263 be held to be bad in law and be therefore set
aside.
6) For that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the order of
the CIT passed u/s 263 be cancelled and the order of the AO u/s 144C/ 143(3)
allowing the deduction for royalty paid as revenue expenditure be restored.
7) For that the appellant craves leave to submit additional grounds and or
amend or alter the grounds already taken either at the time of hearing of the
appeal or before.
7\. The ld. AR apart from reiterating the submissions made before the ld. CIT
supra argued that none of the written submissions of the assessee were
considered by the ld. CIT while passing the revision order u/s 263 of the Act.
This is quite evident from the fact of one line dismissal by the ld. CIT in
his order as below:-
The submission of the assessee is perused but not found to be satisfactorily.
He argued that the ld. CIT had merely reproduced the show cause notice issued
to the assessee and had framed as his order without giving any credence to the
written submissions made by the assessee. He argued that hence on this count
itself, the order of section 263 of the Act deserves to be quashed. In any
case, he argued that the ld. CIT had not brought out on record as to how the
order passed by the ld. AO is erroneous for invoking revisionary jurisdiction
u/s 263 of the Act. He argued that the ld. CIT had placed reliance on the
decision of the Hon‟ble  15 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11
M/s. DIC India Ltd.
Supreme Court in the case of Alembi Chemical Works Co. Ltd vs CIT reported in
177 ITR 377 (SC) . Actually even according to the version of the ld. CIT in
his order, the said judgement indicated infinite variety of situational
diversities in which the concept of what is capital expenditure and what is
revenue arises, it is not possible to form any general rule even in the
generality of cases, sufficiently accurate and reasonable comprehensive, to
draw any clear line of demarcative, whether a particular outlay is capital or
revenue. And therefore, once for all test as well as the test of „enduring
benefit‟ may not be conclusive may also be applied to conclude the issue of
royalty payment as an capital expenditure instead of revenue which was allowed
to the assessee for past several years. He argued that the said judgement
itself specified that as to whether a particular outlay is capital or revenue
in nature had to be judged from the facts of each case and there cannot be any
conclusive proof for the same. Having said so, without bringing any material
on record , the ld. CIT had simply categorized the royalty payment as capital
expenditure , without appreciating as to how the royalty payment had assisted
in acquisition of knowhow and without appreciating the terms and conditions of
technical collaboration agreement entered into by the assessee. He argued that
in the past , similar expenditure was allowed as revenue expenditure by the
ld. AO u/s 143(3) of the Act and hence it could be concluded that the ld. AO
had taken one of the possible views in the matter and accordingly the wisdom
of the ld. AO in this regard cannot be questioned by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of
the Act. He placed reliance on several decisions of Hon‟ble Supreme Court,
High Courts and Tribunal in support of his various contentions.
8\. In response to this, the ld. DR argued that the proceedings before the ld.
TPO and he making an adjustment to ALP on the royalty transactions has got no
relevance at all as the scope of enquiry before the ld. TPO was totally
different from that of the ld. AO. He argued that the assessee never replied
before the ld.
16
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
TPO or ld. AO justifying the royalty payment as eligible as revenue
expenditure. Hence no enquiry in this regard was made by the ld. AO. The ld.
AO in the instant case had simply adopted the adjustment to ALP suggested by
the ld. TPO and he did not make any independent enquiry with regard to royalty
payment. With regard to the allowability of this expenditure in earlier years,
he contended that no examination was carried out earlier by the revenue and
hence pursuant to elaborate examination carried out this year, if the stand
taken earlier had to be changed, then the same should. not be taken as
violation of principle of consistency. He argued that since no view at all was
taken by the ld. AO, there is no question of he taking one of the possible
view. Hence the case laws relied on in this regard stands defeated. On merits,
he stated that the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in I.A.E.C. Pumps Ltd case simply
relied on its previous decision in CIBA of India Ltd case reported in 69 ITR
692 (SC). He argued that the royalty is paid by the assessee for right to sell
the finished goods manufactured using the technical knowhow, whereas the
technical collaboration agreement fees is for right to use the technical
knowhow which is in the form of „fee for technical services‟ (FTS). The
decision in CIBA India Ltd supra dealt only with FTS and not royalty. Hence
the reliance on the said decision is misplaced. He in turn placed reliance on
the decision of the Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of CIT vs Southern
Switchgear Ltd reported in (1984) 148 ITR 273 (Mad) in support of his
contention.
9\. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the materials available on
record including the paper book filed by the assessee. We find Coates of India
Limited was the erstwhile name of DIC India Limited (assessee herein) . We
find from the technical collaboration agreement entered into between assessee
and DIC Corporation, Japan on 5.12.2000 that assessee is engaged in the
business of manufacturing of printing inks and allied products in India in its
various factories located at Calcutta, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Noida and
Ahmedabad. The  17 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC
India Ltd.
assessee was desirous of upgrading its overall technology and introduction of
new technology for manufacturing printing inks and allied products of all
types viz., manufacturing of flushed pigments, sheetfed offset inks, gravure
inks, web offset inks, news inks, screen printing inks, varnishes of all types
including flush varnish, adhesives including packaging adhesives on a
continuous basis. The assessee had approached DIC Japan to make available to
it the said technical knowhow for the purpose of upgrading its manufacturing
technology for the existing as well as future products relating printing inks
and allied products on a continuous basis in its plants located at Calcutta,
Mumbai, Noida, Ahmedabad , New Delhi , Madras or any other future place as may
be determined by assessee from time to time. It is further stated that the DIC
Japan would. make available to assessee the technical knowhow as aforesaid and
the right to use the trade names and brand names. In this regard, the
following clauses in the said agreement would. be relevant:-
> 1.3. "Products" will also include the right of COATES to use the Trade
> Names, Brand Names relevant to the Products, whether the same be registered
> or otherwise (hereinafter referred to as "Trademarks"), provided, however,
> it shall be the responsibility of COATES to ensure compliance with local
> laws relating to use of such names and marks.
> 1.4. Licensed Information means such technical information in possession of,
> and at free disposal of , DIC, on the Effective Date of the Agreement in
> relation to the Products towards manufacturing, formulation and application
> and shall also include formulation, production process, quality control,
> sourcing of input materials, material safety data sheet, safety, health and
> environment protection measures.
> 2\. LICENSE 2.1. DIC hereby grants COATES a non-exclusive license to use
> Licensed Information for the manufacture of Products in Territory.
> 2.2. COATES is granted a non-exclusive right to sell Products in any
> countries except the countries where DIC has its plant, its subsidiaries or
> other joint venture arrangements for the manufacture of Products, where  18
> I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
DIC is engaged in the ordinary sales activity of Products, and where DIC
licenses the exclusive sales right to a third party. However, in the event DIC
agrees in writing on the prior written request of COATES, COATES may export
Products to such countries as expected above.
2.3. COATES in not granted a right to sublicense to any third parties and
shall not make Licensed Information available to any third parties.
4\. Compensation 4.1. COATES shall pay DIC a royalty of 2% (two) on total net
sales for all Products manufactured and sold. by COATES in India and abroad.
4.2. DIC may from time to time help COATES by purchasing the said products
directly or through its group/ associate companies at such prices as may be
mutually agreed upon but not less than the actual cost plus reasonable profit
margin. Provided however COATES shall be under no obligations to accept such
orders from DIC or its associates and DIC shall not be entitled to any royalty
on such transactions.
.......................................
7\. SECRECY 7.1. COATES agree to keep the Licensed Information provided
hereunder by DIC as secret and confidential and agrees not to disclose it to
any third party provided that the information of the following nature shall be
excluded from these secrecy obligations:
> (a) Information that is in public domain.
> (b) Information that COATES has in its possession at the Effective date
> which is not subject to an Agreement of Confidentiality. (c ) Information
> which COATES has received rightfully from other sources before or after at
> the Effective Date.
7.2. The obligation under this article shall survive any termination of this
Agreement for ten (10) years.
9\. Period of Agreement 9.1. This Agreement will remain in force for 7 years
from the Effective Date, provided that DIC, directly or indirectly, owns more
than fifty (50) percent of the shares of COATES.
19
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
9.2. One (1) year prior to the expiration of this Agreement, the parties shall
meet and shall decide jointly either to renew this Agreement for the further
period fo five (5) years at the expiration of this Agreement or whether it
shall not be renewed after the normal date of expiration.
10\. Termination 10.1. Either party may terminate this Agreement forthwith:
(1) if the other party is in breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement
and fails or is unable to remedy the same within 30 days after receiving
notice in writing thereof from the other party.
(2) if the other party becomes insolvent, bankrupt or is placed liquidation.
10.2. If under the provisions of this Agreement COATES ceases to be entitled
to use the Licensed Information COATES shall deliver up to DIC all such
Licensed Information in tangible form which may then be in its possession and
will keep no copies thereof.
9.1. We find from pages 27 to 29 of the Paper Book, a copy of the approval,
from Government of India, Ministry of Commerce & Industry , Department of
Industrial Policy & Promotion Secretariat for Industrial Assistance vide
approval No. 8(2001)/719(2000)/PAB-IL , New Delhi dated 3.1.2001 , of
technical collaboration agreement dated 5.12.2000 . Later the technical
collaboration agreement was renewed with effect from 1.7.2008 with DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore with the same terms and conditions. Similarly there
was yet another License Agreement entered on 1.4.2007 between the assessee and
DIC Japan on same terms and conditions as in earlier agreement except with
change in percentage of royalty agreed upon, which is not in dispute before
us. Hence royalty was paid by the assessee to DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd,
Singapore and to DIC Corporation, Japan. We also find from the Fixed Assets
Schedule as on 31.3.2010 (relevant to year under appeal) that there has been a
minor addition of Rs 6.58 crores to Plant & Machinery which is hardly 5.23% of
Gross Block of Fixed Assets as on 31.3.2010. Hence it could. be safely
concluded that no new activity by setting up of a new business venture was
carried out by the assessee  20 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years:
2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
during the year under appeal for which the licensed information was used by
the assessee. We find that the ld. CIT had one hand alleged that the assessee
had acquired the business / commercial rights in Intellectual Property Rights
(IPR) , but in the very same context , he had also stated that the business /
commercial rights have been obtained for a period of seven years only.
Admittedly the licensed information has been obtained for a period of seven
years by the assessee and hence there cannot be any question of acquisition of
such licensed information by the assessee. We have gone through the agreement
entered into between the assessee and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore and
DIC Corporation, Japan and we find that nowhere it was mentioned that the
assessee had acquired the business/ commercial rights of IPR so as to fall
within the ambit of an asset having enduring nature in the capital field.. On
the contrary it is very clearly stated in both the agreements that DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore and DIC Corporation, Japan has granted license to
use technology, knowhow and other license information for a specified period
and hence it cannot be said that the assessee had acquired any business /
commercial rights thereon. We find that the ld. CIT had persuaded himself to
incorrect assumption of facts that assessee by using the licensed information
obtained from DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore and DIC Corporation, Japan
had upgraded its P&M and also changed the setting up of P&M to make its
finished products viable for the market. This assumption is factually
incorrect and does not emanate out of the jurisdictional facts on record. The
ld. CIT had not brought any material evidence on record to justify this
incorrect assumption thereby leading to incorrect conclusion. We find that the
assessee had all along been in the business of manufacture of printing inks
and it had not ventured into any new business as could. be evident from its
financial statements. We find that the knowhow was provided for upgrading the
existing business. This payment of royalty has been allowed as a revenue
expenditure in the past by the ld. AO u/s 143(3) of the Act. The ld. CIT
merely made a bald  21 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s.
DIC India Ltd.
statement by stating that the assessee by using the licensed information had
entered into new dimensions of business from time to time and hence the
payment of royalty could. not be equated with the nature of royalty paid in
earlier years, which statement is absolutely without any basis and without any
material on record. The assessee had submitted before the ld. CIT that the
royalty was paid in respect of licensed information obtained from DIC Asia
Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore and DIC Corporation, Japan for manufacture of
resins and printing inks and the licensed information pertains to these
specific items i.e resins and printing inks alone and cannot be used to
venture into new business. The nature of royalty, mode and manner of payment
thereon had remained the same since financial year 2007-08 / 2008-09 as the
case may be, in which these agreements were entered into by the assessee. In
this regard, we would. like to place reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble
Apex Court in the case of Radhasoami Satsang vs CIT reported in 193 ITR 321
(SC), wherein it was held. that :
> As we are aware of the fact that, strictly speaking res judicata does not
> apply to income tax proceedings. Again, each assessment year being a unit,
> what is decided in one year may not apply in the following year but where a
> fundamental aspect permeating through the different assessment years has
> been found as a fact one way or the other and the parties have allowed that
> position to be sustained by not challenging the order, it would. not be at
> all appropriate to allow the position to be changed in a subsequent year.
9.2. Based on the aforesaid findings, it could. be safely concluded that the
ld. AO had arrived at one possible conclusion in the given set of facts and
circumstances and had taken one possible view. The ld. CIT is only trying to
substitute his own view on the same set of facts and circumstances by invoking
his revisionary powers u/s 263 of the Act which in our considered opinion is
not permissible in law.
22
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
9.3. We find that similar issue was addressed by the co-ordinate bench of this
tribunal in the case of DCIT vs Bata India Ltd in ITA Nos. 1826 to
1828/Kol/2012 dated 23.5.2013. In this case also, it had secrecy &
confidentiality clause and termination clause similar to what is present in
the technical collaboration agreement entered into by the assessee herein. The
Tribunal after examining the relevant clauses of the agreement held. as
below:-
> 16\. The ld. AR drew our attention to the royalty agreement which was at
> pages 8 to 28 of the paper book. He drew our attention to para 2.5 of the
> agreement which specifically says that all the drawings and other documents
> comprising the technical knowhow and all notes and copies made there from by
> licensee shall be marked with the words "Secret and Confidential-property of
> Wolverine World Wide, Inc.". He further drew our attention to Article 6.1
> wherein it has been agreed that the technical know-how imparted to licensee
> is and shall remain the exclusive and valuable secret property of licensor.
> He drew our attention to para 6.5 wherein it has been specifically mentioned
> that on termination of the agreement the technical know-how papers,
> instruments, documents etc. both original and all copies and translations
> thereof and all shop or working notes shall be returned to the licensor. He
> further drew our attention to Article 11.6 when specified the effects of the
> termination to show that in the event of termination or expiry of the
> agreement the licensed products were not to be manufactured nor was its
> trade marks to be used and all to be returned to the licensor. It was the
> submission that in view of the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court
> in the case of CIT vs Hindusthan Motors Ltd. 192 ITR 619 it clearly ITA
> Nos1826-1828/Kol/2012 & C.O.Nos.10&11/Kol/2013 5 DCIT, Circle-2, Kolkata vs
> M/s. Bata India Ltd.. A.Yrs.2005-06 & 2006-07 shows that this royalty
> payment was a revenue expenditure as no capital assets came into being in
> the hands of the assessee.
> 17\. In reply the ld. DR vehemently supported the orders of the AO as well
> as the ld. CIT(A).
> 18\. We have heard the rival submissions. A perusal of the agreement in
> respect of the technical know-how and the manufacturing process clearly
> shows that the assesse has derived no enduring benefit nor has assessee
> obtained any capital asset on the basis of the payment of the royalty as per
> the agreement. The technical know-how trade marks denies drawings, notes
> etc. in respect of the agreement for which the assessee has paid the royalty
> belongs to the licensor being M/s. Wolverine World Wide, INC. Thus as the
> assessee has derived no enduring benefit the same cannot be treated as a
> capital expenditure but is clearly  23 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment
> Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
> in the name of revenue expenditure and allowable. In the circumstances the
> AO is directed to allow the royalty paid by the assessee as revenue
> expenditure as claimed.
9.3.1. We find that this order was further agitated by the revenue by
preferring an appeal before the Hon‟ble Calcutta High Court which was disposed
off in GA No. 3482 of 2013 dated 18.8.2014 in favour of the assessee. The
relevant operative portion of the said order is as below:-
> So far as question nos. (iv) and (v) are concerned we find from the order of
> the CIT(A) the assessee did not derive any enduring benefit for payment of
> lumpsum royalty as the agreement was for non-transferable license to
> manufacture licensed products in India.
Out of several questions raised by the revenue before the Hon‟ble Calcutta
High Court, only question no. (iv) was admitted by the Court and all other
questions were either disposed of on merits or on the ground that they do not
involve any substantial question of law.
9.4. We find that the assessee had filed chartered accountant‟s certificate in
Form 3CEB for its international transactions which included payment of subject
mentioned Royalty to its AE which was certified to be at Arm‟s Length by the
Chartered Accountant. The assessee benchmarked its royalty transactions by
following CUP method and by comparing the royalty percentage made by the
comparable companies and arrived at the arithmetic mean of 8.55% on sales.
Since assessee paid only 2% as royalty on sales, the assessee justified its
royalty payment to be at Arm‟s Length. The Transfer Pricing Documentation in
this regard was also filed during the hearing wherein at pages 44 to 54 of the
TP Study Report, the details of benchmarking of royalty and justification of
ALP for the  24 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC
India Ltd.
same is reflected. The case was referred to the ld. Transfer Pricing Officer
u.s 92CA of the Act after obtaining the prior approval of the ld. CIT. The ld.
TPO found that the CUP method is not the suitable method for benchmarking the
Royalty Payment and other international transactions and adopted Transaction
Net Margin Method (TNMM) and made an upward adjustment of Rs 4,87,70,886/- on
various international transactions of the assessee including the payment of
royalty. Based on this ld. TPO order examining the aspect of ALP of royalty
payment, the ld. AR argued that the issue of royalty payment had been duly
examined by the subordinate authorities and the ld. AO had also made an
addition of Rs 82,88,935/- attributed towards royalty which is included in the
total TP addition of Rs 4,87,70,886/- and accordingly the same cannot be
construed as „lack of enquiry‟ warranting revision u/s 263 of the Act. In this
regard, we hold. that the scope of enquiry as envisaged in the statute by the
ld. TPO and by the ld. AO are totally different. The scope of the ld. TPO is
restricted only to determination of ALP, whereas, the ld. AO is entitled to
get into the propriety of transaction and ascertain whether the same is
required to be incurred for the purpose of business or not. Hence the argument
advanced by the ld. AR that the verification of royalty payments had been made
in depth by the ld. TPO and hence it cannot be said that there was no enquiry
by the subordinate authority does not hold. water. We find that the ld. AO had
simply adopted the upward adjustment to ALP contemplated by the ld. TPO in his
order which admittedly included an adjustment towards royalty in the sum of Rs
82,88,935/-. That does not automatically mean that the entire issue of payment
of royalty on propriety basis had been duly examined by the subordinate
authorities precluding the ld. CIT from exercising his revisionary
jurisdiction on the same. We are also not in agreement with the argument
advanced by the ld. AR that the ld. AO had made a reference to ld. TPO on the
international transactions carried out by the assessee and hence the ld. AO
had applied his mind that the royalty payment was in the revenue field and
addition  25 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India
Ltd.
had been made thereon by the ld. TPO and ld. AO. Hence it amounts to
application of mind by the ld. AO. We find that the international transactions
carried out by the assessee would. be both on capital as well as on revenue
account. The entire international transactions would have to be referred by
the ld. AO to the ld. TPO u/s 92CA of the Act. As we had already stated that
the scope of enquiry of the ld. TPO is merely restricted to determination of
ALP of international transactions which would. be both on capital and on
revenue account. Hence the order of ld. TPO on royalty payment and addition
made thereon would. not come to the rescue of the assessee.
9.5. We also find that the issue of allowability of royalty as revenue
expenditure was considered by the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of
Timken India Ltd vs CIT reported in (2014) 51 taxmann.com 184 (Calcutta) dated
30.7.2014 which considered the decisions relied upon by the ld. AR [i.e CIT vs
I.A.E.C. (Pumps) Ltd \- 232 ITR 316 (SC) and ld. DR (i.e Alembic Chemical
Works Co. Ltd vs CIT \- 177 ITR 377 (SC) ]. The Hon‟ble Calcutta High Court
held. as under:-
> 5\. Mr. Majumdar, learned advocate appearing in support of the appeal,
> submitted that the facts and circumstances of the present case are identical
> with those in the case ofAlembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. v. CIT [1989] 177
> ITR 377/43 Taxman 312 (SC). The assessee company, he contended, was already
> in existence and the assessee was also engaged in the business of ball
> bearings. The assessee entered into an agreement with the foreign company
> for the purpose of acquiring a new technology. In an identical situation in
> the aforesaid case of Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. (supra), the Apex
> Court held. that "it appears to us that the answer to the questions referred
> should. be on the basis that the financial outlay under the agreement was
> for the better conduct and improvement of the existing business and should.,
> therefore, be held. to be a revenue expenditure. Reference may also be made
> to the observations of this Court in CIT v. CIBA of India Ltd."
> 6\. Mr. Majumdar also relied upon a judgment in the case of CIT v. I.A.E.C.
> (Pumps) Ltd. [1998] 232 ITR 316 (SC), wherein Their Lordships of the Supreme
> Court agreed with the views of the High Court holding that "we are of the
> opinion that the above features clearly establish that what was obtained by
> the assessee is  26 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s.
> DIC India Ltd.
only a licence and what was paid by the assessee to Aturia is only a licence
fee and not the price for acquisition of any capital asset."
7\. Mr. Majumdar submitted that considering the fact that the payment made by
the assessee is on account of a license fee and considering that the Supreme
Court was considering an identical question in the case of I.A.E.C. (Pumps)
Ltd. (supra) the question should. be answered in favour of the assessee.
8\. Ms. Gutgutia, learned advocate appearing for the revenue, drew our
attention to a judgment of the apex Court in the case of Jonas Woodhead & Sons
(India) Ltd. v. CIT[1997] 224 ITR 342/91 Taxman 1 (SC). She submitted that the
moot question for consideration has been indicated in the aforesaid judgment
as follows:
> "Whether the expenditure or payment thus made makes an accretion to the
> capital asset and after the court comes to the conclusion that it does so,
> then it has to be held. to be a capital expenditure."
9\. She contended that the vexed question has been made simpler by the apex
Court in the aforesaid case. If the payment made by the assessee makes an
accretion to the capital asset the expenditure is capital in nature. She
contended that the assessee may have already had an existing plant and
machinery. It may also be true that the assessee was pursuing the same line of
business, but it cannot be denied that by paying the sum of USD 200,000 the
assessee acquired a new technology. There was as such accretion to the capital
of the assessee in the sense that the company became better equipped to do its
business with the help of technology. Therefore, the expenditure has to be
treated as a capital expenditure. On the top of that, from the agreement
entered into between the assessee and the non-resident it would. appear that
the benefit of such payment is of an enduring nature which is to continue to
benefit the assessee for a period of six years. It was, as such, a plain case
of a capital expenditure on which the assessee was entitled to claim
depreciation. The assessee has already been allowed depreciation at the rate
of 25%. Accordingly, more than just treatment was given to the assessee and
this court should. refrain from interfering with the order under challenge.
10\. We have considered the rival submissions of the learned advocates for the
parties. The submissions advanced by Ms. Gutgutia are no doubt meritorious and
certainly represent one way of looking at the things. Sight cannot however be
lost of the fact that the payment made by the assessee is on account of
license fee. By making such payment, the assessee has got a permission to use
the technology. The money paid is irrecoverable. In case the business of the
assessee for some reason or the other is stopped, no benefit from such payment
is likely to accrue to the assessee. The license is not transferable.
Therefore, it cannot be said with any amount of certainty that there has been
an accretion to the capital asset of the assessee. In case, the assessee
continues to do business and continues to exploit the technology for the
agreed period of time, the assessee will be entitled to take the benefit
thereof. But in case it does not do so, the payment made is  27 I.T.A.No. 126
/Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
irrecoverable. It is in this sense that the matter was looked into by the High
Court of Madras and was endorsed by the apex Court in the case of IAEC (Pumps)
Ltd. (supra). The point as a matter of fact is covered by the aforesaid
judgment. Nothing really is left for us to do in the matter.
11\. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the question has to be answered in
the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.
12\. The appeal is, thus, allowed.
The aforesaid decision of Hon‟ble Calcutta High Court is squarely applicable
to the facts of the instant case on merits. We find that the decision of the
Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of CIT vs Southern Switchgear Ltd
reported in (1984) 148 ITR 273 (Mad) does not come to the rescue of the
revenue as in that case, it was categorically found that in addition to the
acquisition of technical knowledge, the assessee company got an exclusive
right to manufacture and sell its articles without any objection from anyone
including the foreign company and this is clearly an advantage of enduring
nature. It was further observed in that case that it is well established that
even without acquisition of an asset, a right of a permanent advantage could.
be acquired and the cost of acquisition of such a right could. be taken to be
capital expenditure. In the instant case, the assessee shall not be entitled
to use the Licensed Information and it had to deliver up to its AE all such
Licensed Information in tangible form which may then be in its possession and
will keep no copies thereof. Moreover, assessee in the instant case was given
by its AE only a non-exclusive and non-transferable license to use Licensed
Information for manufacture of products. Assessee was not granted any right to
sublicense to any third parties or make available any licensed information to
any third parties and is also directed to maintain the secrecy and
confidentiality of the licensed information by not disclosing to any third
party and such secrecy & confidentiality clause shall be binding even after
termination of the agreement for ten years. Hence it is a restrictive usage
privilege given to the assessee in the  28 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment
Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
instant case and hence the facts before the Hon‟ble Madras High Court are
squarely distinguishable.
9.6. We find that the ld. CIT considered the order of the ld. AO to be
erroneous at the show cause notice stage by stating the royalty payment should
be construed as capital expenditure and hence should. be disallowed, he later
on in the order passed u/s 263 of the Act changed the track and considered the
order to be erroneous for „lack of enquiry‟ on the part of the ld. AO. This
finding of the ld. CIT recorded on altogether new footing without giving
opportunity of being heard to the assessee, itself rendered the revision order
u/s 263 of the Act as invalid and bad in law.
9.7. We find that the Hon‟ble Madras High Court supra had held. that 25% of
the said expenditure would. have to be treated as capital in nature and
balance 75% had to be treated as revenue in nature. Hence this was the third
view that was possible in the impugned matter. We hold. that this itself makes
the issue debatable and hence the same cannot be the subject matter of
revision u/s 263 of the Act. We find that the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in
the case of CIT vs J L Morrison (India) Ltd reported in (2014) 366 ITR 593
(Cal) at page 619 had held. as under:-
> 61\. The point as regards the disallowance of 25 percent of the royalty paid
> by the assessee is evidently based on omission on the part of the
> Commissioner of Income-Tax to notice that the assessee was not entitled to
> use the technical know-how after the expiry of the contract as discussed
> above. The point as regards the excess sum of Rs 1,56,59,363 having been
> allowed to be debited on account of raw material consumed is obviously based
> on a misunderstanding of the nature and purpose of notes on accounts
> required under the Companies Act.
> 62\. We are, as such of the opinion that the Tribunal was justified in
> holding that the Assessing Officer took a possible view. The first question
> is thus answered in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.
29
> I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
9.7. We find that the ld. AO had called for the copy of the technical
collaboration agreement entered into on 1.4.2007 and 1.7.2008 with DIC
Corporation Japan and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore in the assessment
proceedings and had applied his mind on the same. On verification of the said
agreement and on finding that the same was just a continuation of the renewal
of old agreements wherein royalty was allowed as revenue expenditure, formed
an opinion on the subject mentioned issue , that the same should. be construed
as revenue expenditure in the year under appeal. Since the ld. AO was not
contemplating to take a divergent view on the issue of royalty payment, he did
not bother to discuss about the same in the assessment order. That does not
automatically give room for the ld. CIT to treat the order of the ld. AO as
erroneous thereby invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act. It is
pertinent to note that the ld. CIT had mentioned about the existence of the
royalty agreement in the show cause notice issued by him itself and had also
scrutinized the said agreement before issuing the show cause notice. This goes
to prove that the assessee had already filed the said agreements during the
assessment proceedings on request from the ld. AO. The ld. CIT was trying to
substitute his own view against the view taken by the ld. AO on the basis of
the very same agreement when there being no change in the facts and
circumstances of the case as compared to that of the earlier years. In this
regard, we would. like to place reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in the case of CIT vs Nirav Modi reported in (2016) 71 taxmann.com
272 (Bombay) dated 16.6.2016 wherein it was held. as below:-
> 7\. Firstly, the Revenue contends that the exercise of powers under Section
> 263 of the Act is justified as in this case, as no inquiry in respect of the
> gifts received during the subject years was done by the Assessing Officer
> for the Assessment orders for Assessment Years 2007-08 and 2008-09. This
> according to the Revenue is evident from the Assessment Orders dated 31st
> December, 2009 and 30th December, 2010 which does not even make a mention of
> the gifts received much less discuss and/or deal with the same. This issue
> is no longer res integra as this  30 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment
> Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
Court in Idea Cellular Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2008] 301 ITR 407 (Bom.) has held.
that if during Assessment proceedings queries were raised and the assessee
responded to the same, then even if an Assessment order does not mention the
same, it does not mean that the Assessing Officer has not applied his mind to
the issues. It would. be well-nigh impossible for an Assessing Officer to
complete all assessments assigned to him under Section 143(3) of the Act if he
is required to deal with all issues which arose during the Assessment
Proceedings. Thus, the Assessment Order primarily deal with only those issues
in respect of which the Assessee has not been able to satisfy him and give
reasons for his conclusion. This would. enable the Assessee to challenge the
same, if aggrieved. In fact the Gujarat High Court in CIT v. Nirma Chemical
Works Ltd. [2009] 309 ITR 67/182 Taxman 183 has observed that if an assessment
order were to incorporate the reasons for upholding the claim made by an
assessee, the result would. be an epitome and not an assessment order. In this
case, during the assessment proceedings for both the Assessment Years, the
Assessing Officer issued a query memos to the assessee, calling upon him to
justify the genuineness of the gifts. The Respondent-Assessee responded to the
same by giving evidence of the communications received from his father and his
sister i.e. the donors of the gifts along with the statement of their Bank
accounts. On perusal, the Assessing Officer was satisfied about the identities
of the donors, the source from where these funds have come and also the
creditworthiness/capacity of the donor. Once the Assessing Officer was
satisfied with regard to the same, there was no further requirement on the
part of the Assessing Officer to disclose his satisfaction in the Assessment
Order passed thereon. Thus, this objection on the part of the Revenue, cannot
be accepted.
8\. It is next submitted that the donor had not been examined by the Assessing
Officer. It is not in every case that every evidence produced has to be tested
by cross examination of the person giving the evidence. It is only in cases
where the evidence produced gives rise to suspicion about its veracity that
further scrutiny is called for. If there is nothing on record to indicate that
the evidence produced is not reliable and the Assessing Officer was satisfied
with the same, then it is not open to the CIT to exercise his powers of
Revision without the CIT recording how and why the order is erroneous due to
not examining the donors. Thus, this objection to the impugned order by the
Revenue is also not sustainable.
9\. It was next submitted that no enquiry was done by the Assessing Officer to
find out whether the donor Mr Deepak Modi (father) had received money from
M/s. Chang Jiang as claimed. Nor any inquiry was done to find out whether the
sister had in fact earned amounts on account of Foreign Exchange Transactions
as claimed by her. We find that this enquiry of a source of source is not the
requirement of law. Once the Assessing Officer is satisfied with the
explanation offered on inquiry, it is not open to the CIT in exercise of his
revisional powers direct that further enquiry has to be done. At the very
highest, the case of the Revenue is that this is a case of inadequate inquiry
and not of "no enquiry." It is well settled that the jurisdiction under
Section 263 of the Act can be exercised by  31 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017
Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
the CIT only when it is a case of lack of enquiry and not one of inadequate
enquiry. This view has been taken by this Court in the matter of CIT v.
Shreepati Holdings & Finance (P.) Ltd. [ITA 1879 of 2013 dated 5th October,
2013], by the Delhi High Court in CIT v. Vikas Polymers [2012] 341 ITR 537/194
Taxman 57 and in D.G. Housing Projects (supra). In fact the Delhi High Court
in D.G. Housing Projects (supra) while so holding placed reliance upon the
decision of this Court in Gabriel (India) Ltd. (supra). It is very important
to note that the CIT in his order under Section 263 of the Act has recorded
the fact that there has been no adequate inquiry. Thus, this is not a case of
no inquiry, warranting order under Section 263 of the Act. Thus, this
objection on the part of the Revenue, is also not sustainable.
10\. The Revenue placed reliance upon the decision of the Delhi High Court in
D.G. Housing Projects Ltd., (supra) that as the Assessing Officer had not
enquired into the source of the source of the gifts received by the Assessee,
the Assessment Order is erroneous. The aforesaid decision holds that the power
of Revision under Section 263 of the Act would. normally be exercised in case
of no enquiry and not in cases of inadequate enquiry. However, even in case of
inadequate enquiry by the Assessing Officer, the order of the Assessing
Officer could. be erroneous in two classes of situation. The first class
would. be where orders passed by the Assessing Officer are ex facie erroneous
i.e. a decision rendered ignoring a binding decision in favour of the Revenue
or where enquiry is per se mandated on the basis of the record available
before the Assessing Officer and that is not done. In the second class of
cases, where the order is not ex facie erroneous, then the CIT must himself
conduct an enquiry and determine it to be so. The Court held. that it is not
permissible to the CIT while exercising power under Section 263 of the Act to
remit the issue to the Assessing Officer to re-examine the same and find out
whether earlier order of Assessment is erroneous. It is the CIT who must hold.
that the order is erroneous, duly supported by reasons. In the present facts,
the CIT in exercise of its powers under Section 263 of the Act has merely
restored the Assessment to the Assessing Officer to decide whether the gifts
were genuine and, if not, then the Assessment could. be completed on
application of Section 68 of the Act. In this case, the order passed by the
Assessing Officer is not per se erroneous and further the CIT has not given
any reasons to conclude that the order is erroneous. In fact, he directs the
Assessing Officer to find out whether the order is erroneous by making further
enquiry. This the decision of the Delhi High Court in D.G. Housing Projects
Ltd. (supra), clearly negates. In the above view, the decision of Delhi High
Court in D.G. Housing Projects Ltd. (supra) would. not assist the Revenue in
the present facts.
11\. Further, reliance is placed upon by the Revenue upon the decision of the
Apex Court in Amitabh Bachchan (supra) to impugn the order of the Tribunal. In
the facts of the Supreme Court decision, the Respondent-Assessee had filed a
revised return, claiming additional expenses. During the Assessment
Proceedings, the Assessing Officer called upon the Assessee to furnish the
details with regard to  32 I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11
M/s. DIC India Ltd.
the expenses claimed to be incurred. The Assessee therein pointed out that the
payments for expenses had come out of cash balance available with him. When
the Assessing Officer commenced enquiry in respect of the claim of expenditure
out of cash balance available, seeking to invoke Section 69(C) of the Act and
treat the expenditure claimed as unexplained expenditure, the Assessee therein
withdrew his revised return of income. Once this was done, the Assessing
Officer accepted the same and did not make any further enquiry. The CIT in
exercise of its powers under Section 263 of the Act noticed that the Assessee
had after having pressed his claim for expenditure in cash, withdrew the claim
by withdrawing the revised return of income. This was done only after the
enquiry had commenced. This withdrawal of revised income and consequent claim
for cash expenditure was contrary to the stand of the Assessee himself. This
change on the part of the Assessee on commencement of enquiry, made further
enquiry into his claim for cash expenditure necessary. In the above facts, the
CIT while exercising his powers under Section 263 of the Act found that the
facts on record per se mandated an enquiry to be made into the claim of the
Assessee and not doing the same resulted in the order being erroneous. Thus,
the Bachchan's case was a case where once the claim was withdrawn, then
enquiry which was to be conducted, was aborted by the Assessing Officer.
Therefore, a case of non-enquiry. It may have been different, if the Assessing
Officer had enquired into the cash expenditure and its source as claimed, to
come to his own conclusion and even accepted the stand of the Assessee. In
such a case, even if the CIT would. have taken a view that the satisfaction of
the Assessing Officer is not correct, he would. not have been able to exercise
his powers of Revision under Section 263 of the Act.
12\. In the present facts, the Assessing Officer was satisfied, consequent to
making an enquiry and examining the evidence produced by the Assessing
Officer, establishing the identity and creditworthiness of the donor as also
the genuineness of the gift. The CIT in his order of Revision, does not
indicate any doubts in respect of the genuineness of the evidence produced by
the Assessee. The satisfaction of the Assessing Officer on the basis of the
documents produced is not shown to be erroneous in the absence of making a
further enquiry. It is made clear that our above observations should. not be
inferred to mean that it is open to the Assessing Officer to enquire into the
source of source for the purpose of the present facts. This is a case where a
view has been taken by the Assessing Officer on enquiry. Even if this view, in
the opinion of the CIT is not correct, it would. not permit him to exercise
power under Section 263 of the Act. In fact, the Apex Court in Amitabh
Bachchan (supra) has observed that there can be no doubt that where the view
taken by the Assessing Officer is a possible view, interference under Section
263 of the Act, is not permissible.
13 In view of the above, the questions as framed stands concluded by the
decision of this Court in Gabriel (India) Ltd. (supra). Thus no substantial
questions of law arises for our consideration.
33
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
14\. Accordingly, Appeals dismissed. No order as to costs.
We hold that the principles laid down by the Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in the
aforesaid case would. be squarely applicable to the facts of the instant case.
10\. In view of our aforesaid findings and respectfully following the various
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
    5.CIT(DR), Kolkata Benches, Kolkata.
    True copy
                                                                       By Order
                                            Asstt.Registrar, ITAT, Kolkata Benches
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
referred to as the "ld. CIT") u/s 263 of the Income Tax Act. 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") relating to Assessment Year 2010-11.
2\. The only issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld. CIT
was justified in invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
3\. The brief facts of this issue is that the assessee filed the return of
income for the Asst Year 2010-11 declaring total income of Rs 26,57,00,956/-
on 22.9.2010. Later this return was revised on 14.4.2011 declaring total
income of Rs.
2
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
26,62,38,618/-. The assessment was completed u/s 143(3) read with section 144C
of the Act on 30.4.2014 determining total income at Rs 32,31,67,610/- pursuant
to the letter dated 7.4.2014 filed by the assessee stating that they are not
preferring to file objections before the Hon‟ble Dispute Resolution Panel
(DRP) against the proposed additions / disallowances and that they would. only
prefer regular appeal before the Ld. CITA. In the said assessment, a sum of Rs
4,87,70,886/- was added as per the order of the ld. TPO suggesting an upward
adjustment to Arm‟s Length Price (ALP) which admittedly included an addition
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
referred to as the "ld. CIT") u/s 263 of the Income Tax Act. 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") relating to Assessment Year 2010-11.
2\. The only issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld. CIT
was justified in invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
3\. The brief facts of this issue is that the assessee filed the return of
income for the Asst Year 2010-11 declaring total income of Rs 26,57,00,956/-
on 22.9.2010. Later this return was revised on 14.4.2011 declaring total
income of Rs.
2
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
26,62,38,618/-. The assessment was completed u/s 143(3) read with section 144C
of the Act on 30.4.2014 determining total income at Rs 32,31,67,610/- pursuant
to the letter dated 7.4.2014 filed by the assessee stating that they are not
preferring to file objections before the Hon‟ble Dispute Resolution Panel
(DRP) against the proposed additions / disallowances and that they would. only
prefer regular appeal before the Ld. CITA. In the said assessment, a sum of Rs
4,87,70,886/- was added as per the order of the ld. TPO suggesting an upward
adjustment to Arm‟s Length Price (ALP) which admittedly included an addition
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
referred to as the "ld. CIT") u/s 263 of the Income Tax Act. 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") relating to Assessment Year 2010-11.
2\. The only issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld. CIT
was justified in invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
3\. The brief facts of this issue is that the assessee filed the return of
income for the Asst Year 2010-11 declaring total income of Rs 26,57,00,956/-
on 22.9.2010. Later this return was revised on 14.4.2011 declaring total
income of Rs.
2
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
26,62,38,618/-. The assessment was completed u/s 143(3) read with section 144C
of the Act on 30.4.2014 determining total income at Rs 32,31,67,610/- pursuant
to the letter dated 7.4.2014 filed by the assessee stating that they are not
preferring to file objections before the Hon‟ble Dispute Resolution Panel
(DRP) against the proposed additions / disallowances and that they would. only
prefer regular appeal before the Ld. CITA. In the said assessment, a sum of Rs
4,87,70,886/- was added as per the order of the ld. TPO suggesting an upward
adjustment to Arm‟s Length Price (ALP) which admittedly included an addition
towards adjustment to ALP for payment of Royalty in the sum of Rs 82,88,935/-.
During the pendency of appeal before the ld. CITA, the ld. Administrative
Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT) sought to revise the assessment framed by the
ld. AO on 30.4.2014 by holding the same as erroneous and prejudicial to the
interests of the revenue in terms of section 263 of the Act.
4\. The ld. CIT issued a show cause notice u/s 263 of the Act to the assessee
on the ground that the Royalty Payment of Rs 6,42,47,978/- to its Associated
Enterprise (AE) (DIC Asia Pacific PTE Ltd of Singapore and DIC Corporation of
Japan) as revenue expenditure for using technical knowhow and upgrading
manufacturing technology and right to use the trade names and brand names and
reported in Form 3CEB as required u/s 92E of the Act. He observed that as per
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
order passed by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata - 4 (hereinafter
referred to as the "ld. CIT") u/s 263 of the Income Tax Act. 1961 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act") relating to Assessment Year 2010-11.
2\. The only issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld. CIT
was justified in invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
3\. The brief facts of this issue is that the assessee filed the return of
income for the Asst Year 2010-11 declaring total income of Rs 26,57,00,956/-
on 22.9.2010. Later this return was revised on 14.4.2011 declaring total
income of Rs.
2
I.T.A.No. 126 /Kol/2017 Assessment Years: 2010-11 M/s. DIC India Ltd.
26,62,38,618/-. The assessment was completed u/s 143(3) read with section 144C
of the Act on 30.4.2014 determining total income at Rs 32,31,67,610/- pursuant
to the letter dated 7.4.2014 filed by the assessee stating that they are not
preferring to file objections before the Hon‟ble Dispute Resolution Panel
(DRP) against the proposed additions / disallowances and that they would. only
prefer regular appeal before the Ld. CITA. In the said assessment, a sum of Rs
4,87,70,886/- was added as per the order of the ld. TPO suggesting an upward
adjustment to Arm‟s Length Price (ALP) which admittedly included an addition
towards adjustment to ALP for payment of Royalty in the sum of Rs 82,88,935/-.
During the pendency of appeal before the ld. CITA, the ld. Administrative
Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT) sought to revise the assessment framed by the
ld. AO on 30.4.2014 by holding the same as erroneous and prejudicial to the
interests of the revenue in terms of section 263 of the Act.
4\. The ld. CIT issued a show cause notice u/s 263 of the Act to the assessee
on the ground that the Royalty Payment of Rs 6,42,47,978/- to its Associated
Enterprise (AE) (DIC Asia Pacific PTE Ltd of Singapore and DIC Corporation of
Japan) as revenue expenditure for using technical knowhow and upgrading
manufacturing technology and right to use the trade names and brand names and
reported in Form 3CEB as required u/s 92E of the Act. He observed that as per
judicial precedents relied upon hereinabove; we hold that the ld. CIT erred in
invoking revisionary jurisdiction u/s 263 of the Act in the instant case.
Hence the order passed by the ld. CIT u/s 263 of the Act is hereby quashed and
grounds raised by the assessee are allowed.
11\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
                      Order pronounced in the Court on 05.04.2017
                   Sd/-                                                Sd/-
         [N. V. Vasudevan]                                       [M. Balaganesh]
          Judicial Member                                       Accountant Member
        Dated : 05.04.2017
        {SC SPS}
    Copy of the order forwarded to:
1.Appellant/AssesseeDIC India Ltd. Transport Depot Road, Kolkata - 700 088.
    2.Respondent -DCIT, Cir-10(1), Kolkata
    3.CIT(A)-        Kolkata.
    4.CIT -       , Kolkata.
