Delhi High Court
Steelbird Hi-Tech India Ltd. vs S.P.S. Gambhir & Ors. on 24 February, 2014
Author: Manmohan Singh
    .*    IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                                 Judgment delivered on: February 24, 2014
    +            I.A. Nos.19671/2013 & 596/2014 in CS(OS) No.2407/2013
          STEELBIRD HI-TECH INDIA LTD                      ..... Plaintiff
                        Through   Mr. Sudhir Chandra, Sr. Adv. with
                                  Ms.Diva Arora and Mr.Rajat Katiyar,
                                  Advs.
                             versus
          S.P.S. GAMBHIR & ORS                                 ..... Defendants
                         Through          Ms.Prathiba M. Singh, Sr. Adv. with
                                          Ms.Bitika Singh and Mr.Kapil Midha,
                                          Advs.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The plaintiff has filed a suit for permanent injunction restraining
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. The said suit was listed along with IA No.19671/2013
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC wherein this Court passed the interim order.
Upon service, the defendants have filed reply to the interim application and
also filed an application being I.A. No.596/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC for
vacation of the ex parte ad-interim order passed on 6th December, 2013.
Case of the Plaintiff
2\. i) The Plaintiff produces wide variety of open face and full face
motorcycle helmets like Safety Helmets, Ski Helmets, Grand Prix Racing CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 1 of 29 Helmets, Jet Helmets, Off Road Helmets, Moto Cross
Helmets etc. in different sizes catering to all customer segments.
ii) The helmets, pannier boxes and other motor accessories of the Plaintiff
and its sister concerns are manufactured under strict quality control to
ensure that they meet the national and the international safety standards.
iii) The Plaintiff's product is a helmet bearing novel and distinctive
features in shape, configuration and surface pattern. The Plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the design under No.241153 dated 1st December 2011 as
per the Designs Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in respect of
"the shape, configuration and surface pattern of the Helmet".
iv) The shape, configuration and surface pattern is distinctive and unique to
the Plaintiff's helmet sold under the trademark "STEELBIRD".
v) The Plaintiff has been using the helmets bearing the design No.241153,
since January 2012.
vi) The plaintiff has marketed and promoted the said products in India and
abroad on a substantial scale. The plaintiff's product under the aforesaid
design respectively has met with unprecedented success within a short period
of time. Thus the design for the aforesaid helmet has come about to be
exclusively identified with the plaintiff by the members of trade and the
public in general within this period of time. The plaintiff has sold a huge
number of helmets bearing the said design. (The sales figures and the number
of the Plaintiff's helmets bearing the said design sold in the last two years
are given.) CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 2 of 29
vii) The plaintiff has earned substantial goodwill and reputation inter alia
in the design of the said helmet as a result of its efforts towards the
creation of the said design. Due to such efforts of the plaintiff, the said
design has acquired a secondary meaning in the eyes of the public as denoting
the goods of the plaintiff and no one else.
viii) In November, 2013, the plaintiff learnt about the fraudulent imitation
of its registered design under No.241153 by the defendants who were
manufacturing and selling helmets under the mark 'Format' in the same design
as that of the plaintiffs wherein the defendants had copied the essential
features of the plaintiff's registered design applied to helmets.
ix) The plaintiff's representative visited a shop and purchased the defendants
infringing product without a cash memo. On enquiry, the plaintiffs came to
know that the defendants have recently launched impugned helmets bearing the
said design in the month of November, 2013.
xi) From comparison of the plaintiff's and the defendants' helmets there is no
difference between any essential features of the plaintiff's registered design
and that of the defendants impugned product design. Therefore it is evident
that the impugned product of the defendant under the mark 'Format' constitutes
an infringement of the prior statutory rights that vest in the plaintiff by
virtue of registered design No.241153.
3\. The defendants have filed the reply to the injunction application and also
filed a separate application for vacation of the ex-parte orders. In the
application under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC, the prayer is made that the ex-parte
interim order dated 6th December, 2013 is liable to be vacated inter alia on
the following grounds:
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 3 of 29
> (i) The design of the plaintiff falls within the provisions of Section 4 of
> the Act and it lacks novelty. The novelty is primarily claimed by the
> plaintiff during arguments in the "Beak shaped design" which is in fact
> common to trade. The term "Beak shaped design" which has been argued by the
> plaintiff has neither been mentioned in the plaint nor in the design
> registration certificate of the alleged design.
> (ii) No novelty resides in the said beak shape helmet in as much as even
> prior to the design registration of the plaintiff i.e. 1 st December, 2011
> such beak shape design helmet or the helmets were available in the market as
> the other competitors like STUDDS and AIROH have their similar design
> helmets existing in the market much prior to the alleged design registration
> of the plaintiff, i.e. on 1st December, 2011. The rate cards/catalogues of
> these helmets were available at the time or even prior to December, 2011
> which shows that the similar shaped and designed helmets were, in fact,
> available in market for purchase when the plaintiff alleged novelty in the
> design and applied for registration. The pictures of both the designs of
> these two manufacturers are given below for ready reference :
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 4 of 29
> AIROH STUDDS
> (iii) Therefore, the alleged design of the plaintiff is not 'original'
> within the meaning of the Act as there are various manufacturers already
> making such designs with the claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing
> across the world. An internet search reveals various such similarly designed
> Helmets which are being given below for ready reference:
           RICON                           RICON
    CS(OS) No.2407/2013                                        Page 5 of 29
            ROOF                             ROOF
           RISCH                            BROMBO
> (iv) It is also alleged that there is no similarity between the plaintiff's
> helmet registered under the registration No.241153 and helmets CS(OS)
> No.2407/2013 Page 6 of 29 manufactured by the defendants sold under the mark
> FORMAT. The pictures of both the designs are given below for ready
> reference:
              FRONT VIEW
                 Plaintiff's Product       Defendant's product
                 SIDE VIEW
> Comparison of the product of the Defendants and the Plaintiff.
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 7 of 29
> BACK VIEW A table of dissimilarities between the product of the Plaintiff
> and the Defendants has been given as under:
> S.No. Plaintiff's Product Defendants' Product
> 1\. The product of the plaintiffs The product of the defendants is sold
> under the mark is sold under the mark "Steelbird" "Format"
> 2\. The surface pattern on the The surface pattern on the helmet which runs
> through helmet which runs through the the centre of the helmet is in center
> of the helmet is in the a form of a sticker form of a separate plastic piece
> which is separately molded
> 3\. The front portion of the The front portion of the helmet helmet below
> the Visor has a below the Visor has a surface surface pattern with black
> pattern which is black in color broken lines making an with stylish silver
> vents upward "V" making a upward "V".
           4.      The front portion of the         The front portion of the helmet
                   helmet above the Visor bears     above the Visor bears the
                   the name "Adonis" and has a      name "Format" and has a
                   surface pattern with black       separate plastic piece molded
    CS(OS) No.2407/2013                                            Page 8 of 29
                     broken lines making          a over the surface of the helmet
                    downward "V"                   in plain black color.
> 5\. The front side of the helmet The front side of the helmet contains
> stylish chin vents does not have any chin vents. on both the sides.
> 6\. There are two vents on the There are two triangular bottom at the back
> side of shaped vents on the upper side the helmet. at the back of the
> helmet.
> 7\. There is no reflector at the There is a reflector at the back back of
> the helmet. of the helmet.
> (v) It is also contended that the Visor provided in the centre of the helmet
> is a "functional feature" which is common to trade and also as per the
> definition in Section 2(d) of the Act, cannot be a subject matter of the
> design registration. The Visor gives good visibility and good water run-off.
> Apart from protecting the eyes from flying rocks, dirt, mud and water, Visor
> keeps sweat from dripping into your eyes (like a sweat band). No novelty or
> originality or any right in any manner whatsoever can be claimed over the
> Visor and the lower chin portion of the Helmet supporting the Visor.
> (vi) It is submitted that the impugned registration under design No. 241153
> does not fall within the purview of Section 2(d) of the Act. What is
> registrable under the Act is the features of shape, configuration, pattern
> etc. i.e. the features appealing to the eye. The functional features are
> prohibited from being registered. Further requirements envisaged under the
> Act for registrability of any design is that the design has to be new or
> original [Section 4 of the Act read with Section 19 (b), (c) and (e)]. Such
> designs should not be disclosed to the public anywhere in India or in any
> CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 9 of 29 other country by publication in tangible
> form. Moreover, the subject matter of design registration is distinguishable
> from known designs or combination of known designs. None of these features
> are qualified by the alleged design registration No.241153 of the plaintiff.
> Since the design registration No.241153 of the Act in the name of the
> plaintiff does not qualify in all of the above said conditions of being
> registrable under the Act, therefore, is liable to be cancelled under
> Section 19 of the Act. The defendants reserve their right to take
> appropriate action before the Controller of Designs as and when required.
4\. In response to the argument of the defendants, it is alleged by the
plaintiff that the helmets being referred to by the defendants are either
different to that of the plaintiff's helmet design which is the subject of a
registered design. The documents sought to be relied upon by the defendants
are undated and are not clear and reliable, hence, the same cannot be relied
upon. In fact, the defendants have failed to produce any documentary evidence
which shows that the design of the plaintiff's helmets was pre-published. It
is alleged that the plaintiff's product has similarities with the designs of
the defendants and is not different from the designs of other companies
referred by the defendants and hence falls within Section 4
(c) of the Act. The documents filed by the defendants prove that the alleged
design registration was published in tangible form and disclosed in India as
well as aboard within the meaning of Section 4(b) of the Act.
5\. It is argued that from a mere comparison of the plaintiff's helmets
bearing the said design and the defendant's helmets sold under the mark
FORMAT, it is obvious that the two are identical and that there is no CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 10 of 29 difference between any of the essential features of
the plaintiff's registered design and that of the defendants impugned product
design. Therefore it is evident that the impugned product of the defendants
under the mark 'Format' constitutes an infringement of the prior statutory
rights that vest in the Plaintiff by virtue of registered design No.241153
which is to be judged solely by the eye.
6\. It is argued that the defendants were well aware of the design of the
plaintiff's helmets being in the same industry and the plaintiff being one of
the biggest manufacturers of helmets. The defendants have imitated the
plaintiff's products and have intended to misrepresent and pass off their
products as those of the plaintiff. The defendants themselves have stated that
their helmets bearing the impugned design were launched by them only in
November, 2013 and the plaintiff approached the Court in November, 2013
itself. Hence, no prejudice is being caused to the defendants in any manner
whatsoever. Further, the defendants have been restrained only from
manufacturing and selling the model of helmets bearing a design which is
identical to the plaintiff's registered design.
7\. The plaintiff has referred the following decisions in support of its
submission:
i) In the case of Rotomac Pens Ltd. vs. Milap Chand & Co., 1999 PTC 757 (DB)
at pages 769-770 and 791 it was held that:
> "......From a visual comparison of the respondent's and the appellant's
> product, it appears to us that the design adopted by the respondent is
> virtually identical with the appellant's design. The differences, which the
> respondents sought to point out in its affidavit-in-opposition before the
> Trial Court do not appear to be relevant to the question of similarity in
> design. It is true that the respondent produces its pen in five colors and
> CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 11 of 29 of these five colors only three colors are
> similar to the colors used by the appellant, but all have the same glossy
> finish. It is not necessary for the purpose of considering an allegation of
> infringement of a design to decide whether the purchasers are likely to be
> deceived."
ii) In the case of Vikas Jain vs. Aftab and Others; 2008 (37) PTC 288 (Del) it
has been held that :
> "As indicated above, I am, prima facie, of the view that the Defendants'
> design is an obvious imitation of the Plaintiffs design. On the other hand,
> there are sufficient differences between the purported Hong Kong design and
> the Plaintiffs design. The Plaintiffs design is a three-wheeler scooter,
> whereas the Hong Kong design is a two-wheeler scooter..... Apart from that,
> there are many distinguishing features, such as the difference in the foot-
> rest, the handle, shock absorbers, hub caps, etc. In my view, the submission
> of the Learned Counsel for the Plaintiff that the Hong Kong design and the
> Plaintiffs design are not identical is correct. The Plaintiffs design also,
> prima facie, does not appear to be an obvious imitation of the Hong Kong
> design.
> 11\. So, on a comparison of the three designs, i.e., the Hong Kong design,
> the Plaintiffs design and the Defendants' design, I find that while there is
> identity between the Plaintiffs design and the Defendants' design, there is
> no such identity between the Plaintiffs design and the Hong Kong design. For
> the defence of prior publication taken by the Defendants to succeed, it must
> be shown that the very design that is utilised by the Plaintiff has been
> published in India or in any other country prior to the date of registration
> of the Plaintiffs design."
iii) In the case of Alert India vs. Naveen Plastics, 1997 PTC (17) it was held
that:
> "Thus for determining whether two designs are identical or not, it is not
> necessary that the two designs should be exactly the same. The main
> consideration to be applied is whether the CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 12 of 29
> broad features of shape, configuration, pattern etc. are same or nearly the
> same and if they are substantially the same then it will be a case of
> imitation of the design of one by the other."
iv) In the case of Troikaa Pharmaceuticals vs. Pro Laboratories; (2008) 3 GLR
2635 Gujarat High Court held that:
> "The test of ascertaining whether the two designs are identical is that the
> designs have to be judged by the eye and each design has to be compared to a
> whole with all its component features, important and unimportant. It is open
> for the plaintiff to demonstrate that even if the plaintiff's design is
> regarded as having been inspired by some previous designs, the plaintiff has
> introduced sufficient novelty so as to constitute a new and/or original
> design. Previously published designs of other Companies have not been
> produced before the Court except in pictures and photos. The plaintiff's D
> Shape tablets as well as defendant's D Shape tablets are produced which are
> more or less similar. The defendant's D Shape tablets are similar in shape
> as well as in colour with that of the plaintiff. It would certainly create
> deception in the mind of ultimate user."
v) In the case of Castrol India Limited vs. Tide Water Oil Company (I) Ltd.,
1996 (16) PTC 202 it was held that:
> "......The statement of novelty filed by the petitioner was in respect of
> the shape, configuration and surface pattern particularly the ridged side of
> the container. The novelty was not claimed either in relationship to the
> proportion of the shape or in the colour used. Therefore, the difference in
> the proportion of the container and the difference in colour between the
> petitioner's containers and the defendant's containers are immaterial, as
> neither of the colour nor the proportions were part of the registered
> design. The Court further held that the test of deceptive similarity would
> be appropriate whether the petitioner pleads passing off. But in cases of
> infringement of design the question is not whether the similarity has or is
> likely to cause confusion or deception of a purchaser but whether the
> similarity is an imitation of the registered design sufficient to destroy
> the exclusive right of user of the proprietor despite the fact that no
> confusion is or CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 13 of 29 may be caused as to the
> source of the goods. Otherwise every registered design could be imitated
> with impunity merely by changing the colour of the two products. The Court,
> therefore, held that the respondents have so imitated the petitioner's
> design as to deprive the petitioner of the protection under the Statute."
vi) In the case of Texla Metals Vs. Anil K. Bhasin & Ors., 2001 PTC 146 (Del)
it was held that :
> "The basic nature and design of a bollard and a delineator would essentially
> be the same all over the world like traffic lights for example. But what has
> to be remembered is that bollards and delineators which are designed by the
> plaintiff and which are being manufactured by it were not available in India
> prior to the date of registration of the plaintiff's design. Therefore,
> while it can be said that the designs were not completely new or original
> elsewhere, it cannot be said that it is not a new or an original design so
> far as India is concerned. The concept of a new or an original type of
> design is reliable to the publication of such a design or its availability
> to the public in India. This decision also, therefore, does not advance the
> case of the defendant any further. Under the circumstances, the plaintiff
> has made out a case for the grant of an injunction."
8\. In view of plaintiff's pleadings and the decisions referred by Mr.Sudhir
Chandra, learned Senior counsel, it is settled law that if the plaintiff is
able to show prima facie, the design used by the defendants is an
identical/similar being is an obvious imitation and the design registered in
favour of plaintiff is a new or original and it has not been published in
India prior to date of registration/application and is registrable under the
Act which covers as defined under Section 2(d) of the Act, then a strong case
of grant of injunction is made out. The interim order under these
circumstances is to be continued till the disposal of the suit. But at the
same time, in case the plaintiff failed to prove his case prima facie with
regard to challenge CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 14 of 29 made under Section 19 of
the Act and material available on record to show that the design is not new or
original on the date of registration or any other grounds stipulated in said
Section, then the plaintiff may not be able to get the injunction in view of
settled law. Despite it is observed that the defendants' design is similar to
the design of the plaintiff.
9\. Thus, as far as decisions referred by both parties are concerned, the law
is very clear on this aspect. In the cases referred by the plaintiff, each
case is determined as per its own merit wherein it was held that the
defendants have failed to prove the case of prior publication and the design
adopted by the defendant is either an identical or similar amounting to an
imitation. Thus, the interim order was passed.
10\. Let me now discuss the present matter in the light of facts and
circumstances in the present case and as per relevant mandatory provisions of
the Act.
11\. Nature And Scope of Design Act 2000 :
The Design Act is purposefully made as a statutory protection for the
industrial designs which pass the tests of novelty and originality provided by
the Act. The said protection is akin to Patent Act which is also a purely
statutory remedy and tests for evaluation of novelty are also somewhat similar
to that of the Patent. The said protection of Industrial Designs is for
limited period which is 10 years for once and 5 years renewal thereafter and
not beyond the same. The said law has been made specifically to protect the
industrial designs like shape and configuration of the "article" and the said
protection under the Designs Law is totally statutory in nature, and available
in the form of The Designs Act, 2000 which is a complete code in itself as it
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 15 of 29 provides the nature and extent of protection
available under the designs law and the relevant provisions relating to the
same are reproduced herein after:-
> Section 2(d) "design" means only the features of shape, configuration,
> pattern, ornament or composition of lines or colors applied to any article
> whether in two dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms, by any
> industrial process or means, whether manual, mechanical or chemical,
> separate or combined, which in the finished article appeal to and are judged
> solely by the eye; but does not include any mode or principle of
> construction or anything which is in substance a mere mechanical device, and
> does not include any trade mark as defined in clause (v) of sub-section (1)
> of Section 2 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 or property mark
> as defined in Section 479 of the Indian Penal Code or any artistic work as
> defined in clause (c) of section 2 of the Copyright Act, 1957.
> Section 9. Certificate of Registration - (1) The Controller shall grant a
> certificate of registration to the proprietor of the design when registered
> (2) The Controller may, in case of loss of the original certificate, or in
> any other case in which he deems it expedient, furnish one or more copies of
> the certificate.
> Section 10. Register of designs - (1) There shall be kept at the Patent
> Office a book called the register of designs, wherein shall be entered the
> names and addresses of proprietors of registered designs, notifications of
> assignments and of transmissions of registered designs, and such other
> matter as may be prescribed and such register may be maintained wholly or
> partly on computer, floppies or diskettes, subject to such safeguards as may
> be prescribed.
> (2) Where the register is maintained wholly or partly on computer floppies
> and diskettes under sub-section (1), any reference in this Act to any entry
> in the register shall be construed as the reference to entry so maintained
> on computer, floppies or diskettes. (3) The register of designs existing at
> the commencement of this Act shall be incorporated with and form part of the
> register of designs under this Act. (4) The CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 16 of
> 29 register of designs shall be prima facie evidence of any matter by this
> Act directed or authorized to be entered therein.
> Section 11. Copyright on registration - (1) When a design is registered, the
> registered proprietor of the design shall, subject to the provisions of this
> Act, have copyright in the design during ten years from the date of
> registration. (2) If, before the expiration of the said ten years,
> application for the extension of the period of copyright is made to the
> Controller in the prescribed manner, the Controller shall, on payment of the
> prescribed fee, extend the period of copy-right for a second period of five
> years from the expiration of the original period of ten years.
> Section 22. Piracy of registered design - (I) During the existence of
> copyright in any design it shall not be lawful for any person-
> (a) for the purpose of sale to apply or cause to be applied to any article
> in any class of articles in which the design is registered, the design or
> any fraudulent or obvious imitation thereof, except with the license or
> written consent of the registered proprietor, or to do anything with a view
> to enable the design to be so applied; or
> (b) to import for the purposes of sale, without the consent of the
> registered proprietor, any article belonging to the class in which the
> design has been registered, and having applied to it the design or any
> fraudulent or obvious imitation thereof, or
> (c) knowing that the design or any fraudulent or obvious imitation thereof
> has been applied to any article in any class of articles in which the design
> is registered without the consent of the registered proprietor, to publish
> or expose or cause to be published or exposed for sale that article.
> 2\. (1) If any person acts in contravention of this section, he shall be
> liable for every contravention-
> (a) to pay to the registered proprietor of the design a sum not exceeding
> twenty-five thousand rupees recoverable as a contract debt, or CS(OS)
> No.2407/2013 Page 17 of 29
> (b) if the proprietor elects to bring a suit for the recovery of damages for
> any such contravention, and for an injunction against the repetition
> thereof, to pay such damages as may be awarded and to be restrained by
> injunction accordingly :
> Provided that the total sum recoverable in respect of any one design under
> clause (a) shall not exceed fifty thousand rupees: Provided further that no
> suit or any other proceeding for relief under this subsection shall be
> instituted in any court below the court of District Judge.
> (3) In any suit or any other proceeding for relief under subsection (2),
> ever ground on which the registration of a design may be cancelled under
> section 19 shall be available as a ground of defence.
> (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the second proviso to sub- Section
> (2), where any ground or which the registration of a design may be cancelled
> under section 19 has been availed of as a ground of defence and sub-section
> (3) in any suit or other proceeding for relief under sub-section (2), the
> suit or such other proceedings shall be transferred by the Court in which
> the suit or such other proceeding is pending, to the High Court for
> decision.
> (5) When the court makes a decree in a suit under sub-section (2), it shall
> send a copy of the decree to the Controller, who shall cause an entry
> thereof to be made in the register of designs."
> Section 19 \- Cancellation of registration (1) Any person interested may
> present a petition for the cancellation of the registration of a design at
> any time after the registration of the design, to the Controller on any of
> the following grounds, namely: -
> (a) that the design has been previously registered in India; or
> (b) that it has been published in India or in any other country prior to the
> date of registration; or CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 18 of 29
> (c) that the design is not a new or original design; or
> (d) that the design is not registerable under this Act; or
> (e) that it is not a design as defined under clause (d) of section 2.
> (2) An appeal shall lie from any order of the Controller under this section
> to the High Court, and the Controller may at any time refer any such
> petition to the High Court, and the High Court shall decide any petition so
> referred.
12\. The conjoint reading of the aforementioned provisions would reveal that
the Act is a complete code itself which provides that there is a condition for
certificate of registration of the said design under Section 9 and the said
design upon registration confers the copyright in the said design for a period
of 10 years as envisaged under Section 11 and for further renewable of five
years under the said provision. The said term of the also indicates that the
design right is a statutorily conferred right for limited period and there is
no room for any other right to exist except the one conferred by the Act.
Likewise, Section 22 provides remedy for piracy of a registered design wherein
the said piracy will only happen during the existence of copyright in the said
design. Sub-section (3) of Section 22 mandates that in any suit or any other
proceedings for relief under sub-section (2) every ground on which the
registration of a design may be cancelled under Section 19 shall be available
as ground of defence.
13\. All these provisions provided under the Act are indicators to the effect
that infringement/piracy can only be of a registered design and the said
remedy is available during the existence of the said copyright as mentioned
under Section 11 of the Act. What follows from the above discussions is that
there is no remedy, which is being saved.
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 19 of 29
14\. The defendants relied upon the following decisions in support of their
case :
I. Dabur India Limited vs. Rajesh Kumar and Ors., 2008 (37) PTC 227 (Del.) "In
cases of design, the Court while granting interim injunction must keep in mind
that the design must be validly registered and there must be some novelty and
originality in the designs sought to be protected and it must not have been re
published. No specific novelty has been mentioned by the plaintiff in the
design of the bottle, neither any specific novelty has been mentioned in the
registration certificate. The registration certificate only gives bottom view,
top view and side view of the bottle. There is no specific dimensional ratio
of the bottle given in the design as bottles are manufactured by most of the
manufacturers for containing specific quantity of liquid by measurement.
Normally these bottles are made 50 ml, 100 ml, 200 ml, etc. Since all the
manufacturers manufacture bottles for such quantities, the bottles of same
quantity are bound to have almost same height if they have same bottom
circumference. Unless, plaintiff had any claim over specific ratios of the
dimensions which were not pre-existing, there can be no novelty in the bottle.
Similar designs are being used by many leading companies from the time much
before the registration of this design by the plaintiff. I, Therefore,
consider that the plaintiff is not entitled for interim injunction. The
application of the plaintiff is hereby dismissed." II. Rotela Auto Components
Pvt. Ltd. vs. Jaspal Singh and Ors., 2002 (24) PTC 449 (Del.) "28. As far as
present Act is concerned, the legislature in its wisdom by incorporating Sub-
section (3) of Section 2 of the Act has made every ground, on which
registration of a design may be cancelled, available as a ground of defense.
The ground on which cancellation can be sought of registration are enumerated
in Section 19 of the Act. It may be noticed that the design is a conception,
suggestion or idea of a shape and not an article. If is has already been
anticipated, it is not new or original. If it has been pre-published, it
cannot claim protection as publication CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 20 of 29
before registration defeats the proprietor's rights to protection under the
Act.
29\. Looking it from any angle from the documents placed on record the design
has been pre-published and, Therefore, it cannot claim protection. In view of
the fact that registration of design is of recent date, the design having been
published earlier, the ground of defense as mentioned in Section 19 can be
taken by the defendants pursuant to Sub-section (3) of Section 22 of the
Designs Act, 2000, Therefore, no injunction can be granted as there is a
serious dispute as to the validity of the design to be tried in the suit.
Before closing the arguments affidavit has been filed by the defendants that
application for cancellation has already been made by the defendants before
the appropriate authority. The applicants are not entitled to the injunction.
I, Therefore, vacate the injunction order granted earlier. The order dated
10th July, 2001 stands vacated. The application of the plaintiff is dismissed.
Nothing said earlier would be an expression of opinion on the merit of the
case. However, the defendants are directed to keep an account of the sale of
the impugned product. The defendant shall submit the statement after every six
months in Court. The defendants shall also give an undertaking within six
weeks that they will pay the damages to the plaintiffs if ultimately
plaintiffs succeed in the suit."
III. Prayag Chand Agarwal vs. M/s. Mayur Plastics Industries, 72 (1998) DLT 1
"But in view of the facts that the broad pattern of the two soles seems to be
the same and the entire sole of both the shoes have same patterns, cuts, rigid
roofs and lines pattern and in view of the fact that law is well settled that
when serious disputed question on various grounds such as prior publication,
lack of originality, trade variation is raised in a particular case, no
injunction should be granted. Taking into consideration that the impugned
design is registered in favor of the plaintiff in the year 1995 and the same
having been shown to be in use from 1988 onwards i.e. prior to the
registration of plaintiff's design and plaintiff has prima facie failed to
establish that he was the originator of the design, it is difficult to injunct
the defendant."
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 21 of 29
IV. Prem Singh vs. Ceeam Auto Industries, AIR 1990 Del 233 "The consensus of
judicial opinion is thus unmistakably clear to the effect that in order to
succeed in an infringement of copyright, or passing off action, a party has to
show that he is originator in the sense that the concept emanated from him,
and further that the given design or get-up or style has become distinctive of
his goods to the extent that the trading public associates his goods
exclusively with the given design or get-up. The moment this is established
even prima facie, the Courts have never hesitated, in stopping the- opposite
party, shown to have adopted by imitation or other deceptive means, the design
or get-up of the first party, from continuing with the mischief, because that
is treated to be a rank instance of dishonesty by the second party. "
V. The Wimco Limited vs. Meena Match Industries, AIR 1983 Del. 537 "17. The
design may be applied to any kind of article but some novelty or originality
must exist in a substantial degree otherwise it would paralyse the industry to
make the design a trap for honest traders. There is no novelty or originality
as the identical design has already been applied to the match boxes. I have
already discussed at length the evidence of pre-publication of the design
which shows prior application to the same class of goods, namely, match boxes.
The same reasoning would apply.
18\. For the above reasons, I hold that Design No.146498 dated January 5, 1978
is liable to be cancelled on both the grounds, namely, that it has been
published in India prior to the date of registration and that the design is
not new or original design. Issue No.I is held in favor of the petitioner and
against Wimco."
The defendants have produced few helmets of the parties as well as of third
parties and also original catalogues in order to show the prior
publication/user of plaintiff's design. It is admitted position that the brand
names of the parties are totally different.
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 22 of 29
15\. In the present case, it is undisputed fact that pattern of the helmet is
available in this country and other parts of the world for more than three
decades. Even the plaintiff is manufacturing and marketing helmet for the last
more than twenty years. The issue involved in the present litigation is as to
whether novelty, shape and configuration claimed by the plaintiff during the
course of hearing is new or original or has not been prior known or published
by anyone or not on the date of registration i.e. 1 st December, 2011\. If the
answer is yes, then interim order must continue. If answer is in negative,
then interim order may not be issued as per settled law.
16\. It was expressed by Buckley L.J. on the question of quantum of novelty in
Simmons v. Mathieson & Cold, (1911) 28 R.P.C. 486 in these words :
> "In order to render valid the registration of a Design under the Patents and
> Designs Act, 1907, there must be novelty and originality, it must be a new
> or original design. To my mind, that means that there must be a mental
> conception expressed in a physical form which has not existed before, but
> has originated in the constructive brain of its proprietor and that must not
> be in a trivial or infinitesimal degree, but in some substantial degree."
17\. In Phillips v. Barbro Rubber Company (1920) 37 R.P.C. 233, Lord Moulton
observed that while question of the meaning of design and of the fact of its
infringement are matters to be judged by the eye, it is necessary with regard
to the question of infringement, and still more with regard to the question of
novelty or originality, that the eye should be that of an instructed person,
i.e. that he should know what was common trade knowledge and usage in the
class of articles to which the design applies. The introduction of ordinary
trade variants into an old design cannot make it new or original. He CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 23 of 29 went on to give the example saying, if it is common
practice to have or not to have, spikes in the soles of running shoes, any man
does not make a new and original designs out of an old type of running shoes
by putting spikes into the sales. The working world, as well as the trade
world, is entitled at its will to take, in all cases, its choice of ordinary
trade variants for use in particular instance, and no patent and no
registration of a design can prevent an ordinary workman from using or not
using trade knowledge of this kind. It was emphasized that it is the duty of
the Court to take special care that no design is to be counted as "new and
original design" unless it is distinguished from that previously existed by
something essentially new or original which is different from ordinary trade
variants which have long been common matters of taste workman who made a coat
(of ordinary cut) for a customer should be left in tender whether putting
braid on the edges of the coat in the ordinary way so common a few years ago,
or increasing the number of buttons or the like, would expose him for the
prescribed years to an action for having infringed a registered design. On
final analysis, it was emphasized that the use of the words "new or original"
in the statute is intended to prevent this and that the introduction or
substitution of ordinary trade variants in a design is not only insufficient
to make the design "new or original" but that it did not even contribute to
give it a new or original character. If it is not new or original without
them, the presence of them cannot render it so.
18\. The question before me for consideration is whether the plaintiffs'
design when registered on 1st December, 2011 was new or original or different
from what has been done before. As per certificate of registration produced
alongwith plaint, the same does not show any light except the novelty is
claimed in all views for the whole shape, configuration and CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 24 of 29 surface pattern of the Helmet. 'Original' means
that the design originating from the author.
19\. Drawing a distinction between 'new' and 'original' Buckley L.J. said in
Dover Ltd. vs. Nurnberger Celluloidwaren Fabric Gebruder Wolff, (27 R.P.C.
498) that 'new' is referred to a case where the shape or pattern was wholly
new in itself and on the other hand 'original' to the case where it was old
but new in its application to the particular subject matter. The word
'original', according to the learned Judge "contemplates that the person has
originated something, that by the exercise of intellectual activity he has
started an idea which had not occurred to anyone before, that a particular
pattern or shape or ornament may be rendered applicable to the particular
article to which he suggests that it shall be applied".
20\. It is rightly held in the cases decided that in the matter of novelty the
eye is to be the ultimate test and the determination has to be on the normal
ocular impression. In order to know its newness or originality it is necessary
that a design identical with or even materially similar to the relevant design
should not have been published or registered previously. A slight trivial or
infinitesimal variation, from a pre-existing design will not qualify it for
registration. Taking into account the nature of the article involved, the
change introduced should be substantial. It is not necessary to justify
registration that the whole of the design should be new, the newness may be
confined to only a part of it but that part must be a significant one and it
should be potent enough to impart to the whole design a distinct identity,
unless registration is sought for the said part alone.
21\. It was laid down by Lord Moulton in Phillips v. Harbro Rubber Company (37
R.P.C. 233) that it is the duty of the Court to take special cast that no
design shall be counted new or original unless it is distinct from what CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 25 of 29 previously existed by something essentially new or
original which is different from ordinary trade variants which may have long
been common matters of taste or choice in the trade. It is well established
that a registration cannot be deemed effective unless the design or
configuration sought to be protected is new or original and not of a pre-
existing common type. (Ram Sahai v. Angnoo, Air 1922 All, 496, Bahkhshi v.
Ghulam Mohammad, Air 1934 Lahore 709 and The Pilot Pen Co. (India) Private
Ltd., Madras v. The Gujarat Industries Private Ltd., AIR 1967 Madras 215).
Vide In the matter of Wingate's Registered Design No. 768.611 (52 R.P.C. 126)
it was observed that what a substantial difference is, is a question upon
which no general principle can be laid down at all; it must depend on the
particular facts in each case. In one case a quite small variation in the
details of a design may be enough to make the design something quite different
from an existing design. On the other hand, there are cases even where quite
large alterations in detail leave two designs for all practical purposes the
same. The Court has to consider and look at the design in question with an
instructed eye and say whether there is or is not such a substantial
difference between that which had been published previously and the registered
design as to entitle the proprietor of the registered design to say that at
the date of registration that was a new or original design and therefore
properly registered.
22\. Thus, the design must be held to be valid if the statement of novelty is
correctly construed in the narrow sense. However, in other type of cases like
the case reported in Neggretti and Zambra v. W. F. Stanley & Co., Ltd. (42
R.P.C. 358), the case was concerned with the design of a thermometer. The
Court deciding the action noticed the plaintiffs had produced a useful article
of commerce for a particular purpose, which, from its smallness and CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 26 of 29 neatness, was readily distinguishable from the
larger thermometers which had gone before; but that was found to be wholly
immaterial. "The fact that the plaintiffs have hit upon a useful shaped and
useful sized thermometer for the particular purpose in hand", it was found
that there is no reason in law why the defendants should not even copy such
features of that Design which were common in the trade, nor is it any reason
why they should not add to such Design any ordinary trade improvement or trade
variant which is obvious as soon as the particular use to which the article is
intended to be put is appreciated."
23\. The defendants in order to show prima facie evidence with regard to prior
knowledge and prior publication of the similar design than the plaintiff's
design's registration date i.e. 1st December, 2011, has produced the following
documents and tried to connect the documents along with invoices and name of
the model and their advertisement.
(a) The product catalogue of AIROH of the year 2010 shows picture of their
helmet with Code TR 211 which is visually and structurally similar to the
subject matter of design No.241153.
(b) The product catalogue of AIROH of the year 2010 on page 12 shows picture
of their helmet with Code TR 211 shows has a "Beak Shaped" design. The
original catalogue has also been handed across during arguments.
(c) The STUDDS Downtown Full face helmet which is identical to the plaintiff's
design has been available in the market much prior to the registration of the
alleged design of the plaintiff i.e. 1 st December, 2011. The original
catalogue showing the STUDDS CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 27 of 29 Full face
Downtown helmet is on page 19 of the defendant documents. Also, the price
list/rate card (dated 20 th December, 2011) mentioning the price of the STUDDS
Downtown Full face helmet is on page 27 of the defendant documents. Original
invoices along with the delivery challan and the VAT Form dated 10th October,
2011, 12th October, 2011 and 17th August, 2011 is filed with the additional
list of documents filed on 23 rd January, 2014 and 24th January, 2014 shows
that the STUDDS helmet were being sold even prior to the registration of the
alleged design of the plaintiff. Further, the original STUDDS Full face
Downtown helmet was placed before this Court to show the identity with the
design of the plaintiff.
24\. Therefore, it appears to this Court prima facie that similar design was
in fact already available in the market manufactured by STUDDS Accessories
Ltd. and the design thereof would certainly have been conceived by this
manufacturer much prior to 1st December, 2011. The product brochure of STUDDS
along with the above said price list is filed with the present application
which shows beyond doubt that the plaintiff's design is neither new nor
original.
25\. It is also a matter of fact that the plaintiff has not taken any action
against the company who is marketing STUDDS and AIROH. Thus, the documents
prima facie show that the alleged registered design of the plaintiff was
published in tangible form and disclosed to the public in India as well as
abroad within the meaning of Section 4(b) of the Act.
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
accordingly liable to be vacated. Ordered accordingly. Both the applications
are disposed of.
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 List before the roster Bench on 6th May, 2014.
(MANMOHAN SINGH) JUDGE FEBRUARY 24, 2014 CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 29 of 29
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. The said suit was listed along with IA No.19671/2013
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC wherein this Court passed the interim order.
Upon service, the defendants have filed reply to the interim application and
also filed an application being I.A. No.596/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC for
vacation of the ex parte ad-interim order passed on 6th December, 2013.
Case of the Plaintiff
2\. i) The Plaintiff produces wide variety of open face and full face
motorcycle helmets like Safety Helmets, Ski Helmets, Grand Prix Racing CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 1 of 29 Helmets, Jet Helmets, Off Road Helmets, Moto Cross
Helmets etc. in different sizes catering to all customer segments.
ii) The helmets, pannier boxes and other motor accessories of the Plaintiff
and its sister concerns are manufactured under strict quality control to
ensure that they meet the national and the international safety standards.
iii) The Plaintiff's product is a helmet bearing novel and distinctive
features in shape, configuration and surface pattern. The Plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the design under No.241153 dated 1st December 2011 as
per the Designs Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in respect of
"the shape, configuration and surface pattern of the Helmet".
iv) The shape, configuration and surface pattern is distinctive and unique to
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. The said suit was listed along with IA No.19671/2013
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC wherein this Court passed the interim order.
Upon service, the defendants have filed reply to the interim application and
also filed an application being I.A. No.596/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC for
vacation of the ex parte ad-interim order passed on 6th December, 2013.
Case of the Plaintiff
2\. i) The Plaintiff produces wide variety of open face and full face
motorcycle helmets like Safety Helmets, Ski Helmets, Grand Prix Racing CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 1 of 29 Helmets, Jet Helmets, Off Road Helmets, Moto Cross
Helmets etc. in different sizes catering to all customer segments.
ii) The helmets, pannier boxes and other motor accessories of the Plaintiff
and its sister concerns are manufactured under strict quality control to
ensure that they meet the national and the international safety standards.
iii) The Plaintiff's product is a helmet bearing novel and distinctive
features in shape, configuration and surface pattern. The Plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the design under No.241153 dated 1st December 2011 as
per the Designs Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in respect of
"the shape, configuration and surface pattern of the Helmet".
iv) The shape, configuration and surface pattern is distinctive and unique to
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. The said suit was listed along with IA No.19671/2013
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC wherein this Court passed the interim order.
Upon service, the defendants have filed reply to the interim application and
also filed an application being I.A. No.596/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC for
vacation of the ex parte ad-interim order passed on 6th December, 2013.
Case of the Plaintiff
2\. i) The Plaintiff produces wide variety of open face and full face
motorcycle helmets like Safety Helmets, Ski Helmets, Grand Prix Racing CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 1 of 29 Helmets, Jet Helmets, Off Road Helmets, Moto Cross
Helmets etc. in different sizes catering to all customer segments.
ii) The helmets, pannier boxes and other motor accessories of the Plaintiff
and its sister concerns are manufactured under strict quality control to
ensure that they meet the national and the international safety standards.
iii) The Plaintiff's product is a helmet bearing novel and distinctive
features in shape, configuration and surface pattern. The Plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the design under No.241153 dated 1st December 2011 as
per the Designs Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in respect of
"the shape, configuration and surface pattern of the Helmet".
iv) The shape, configuration and surface pattern is distinctive and unique to
the Plaintiff's helmet sold under the trademark "STEELBIRD".
v) The Plaintiff has been using the helmets bearing the design No.241153,
since January 2012.
vi) The plaintiff has marketed and promoted the said products in India and
abroad on a substantial scale. The plaintiff's product under the aforesaid
design respectively has met with unprecedented success within a short period
of time. Thus the design for the aforesaid helmet has come about to be
exclusively identified with the plaintiff by the members of trade and the
public in general within this period of time. The plaintiff has sold a huge
number of helmets bearing the said design. (The sales figures and the number
of the Plaintiff's helmets bearing the said design sold in the last two years
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
infringement of design under Registration No.241153, passing off, rendition of
accounts, damages etc. The said suit was listed along with IA No.19671/2013
under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC wherein this Court passed the interim order.
Upon service, the defendants have filed reply to the interim application and
also filed an application being I.A. No.596/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC for
vacation of the ex parte ad-interim order passed on 6th December, 2013.
Case of the Plaintiff
2\. i) The Plaintiff produces wide variety of open face and full face
motorcycle helmets like Safety Helmets, Ski Helmets, Grand Prix Racing CS(OS)
No.2407/2013 Page 1 of 29 Helmets, Jet Helmets, Off Road Helmets, Moto Cross
Helmets etc. in different sizes catering to all customer segments.
ii) The helmets, pannier boxes and other motor accessories of the Plaintiff
and its sister concerns are manufactured under strict quality control to
ensure that they meet the national and the international safety standards.
iii) The Plaintiff's product is a helmet bearing novel and distinctive
features in shape, configuration and surface pattern. The Plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the design under No.241153 dated 1st December 2011 as
per the Designs Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in respect of
"the shape, configuration and surface pattern of the Helmet".
iv) The shape, configuration and surface pattern is distinctive and unique to
the Plaintiff's helmet sold under the trademark "STEELBIRD".
v) The Plaintiff has been using the helmets bearing the design No.241153,
since January 2012.
vi) The plaintiff has marketed and promoted the said products in India and
abroad on a substantial scale. The plaintiff's product under the aforesaid
design respectively has met with unprecedented success within a short period
of time. Thus the design for the aforesaid helmet has come about to be
exclusively identified with the plaintiff by the members of trade and the
public in general within this period of time. The plaintiff has sold a huge
number of helmets bearing the said design. (The sales figures and the number
of the Plaintiff's helmets bearing the said design sold in the last two years
CS(OS) No.2407/2013 Page 28 of 29
26\. The mere glance at the product of the plaintiff reveals many similarities
with the above said designs of the helmets of STUDDS and AIROH. Therefore, the
plaintiff's product is not dissimilar from the designs of these two companies
or combination thereof and hence falls within the purview of Section 4(c) of
the Act.
27\. There are various manufacturers already making such designs with the
claimed "Beak Shape" and have been marketing across the world. An internet
search reveals various such similarly designed helmets. The details and
pictures of the same are mentioned earlier in this order.
28\. Even otherwise the addition of small feature here or there from the
features of STUDDS and AIROH helmets' design would not make any difference
which could only be called as routine type of trade variation as per demand of
customers for their conveniences and advantages.
29\. Thus, prima facie I do not find the plaintiff's design being new or
original and is not meant for protection. The interim injunction is thus
