650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
