Government.]
3 [23. ‘Definition of “Government”.—In this Act, “the Government” means the
Central Government in the case of persons employed under that Government and
the 4 [State] Government in the case of persons employed under that
Government.]
524. Saving of enactments as to dismissal of certain officers—Commission under Act for their trial.— Nothing in this Act shall be construed to repeal any Act or Regulation in force for the suspension or dismissal of Principal and other Sadr. Amins. or of Deputy Magistrates or Deputy Collectors, but a commission may be issued for the trial of any charge against any of the said officers, under this Act, in any case in which the Government shall think it expedient.324. Saving of enactments as to dismissal of certain officers—Commission under Act for their trial.— Nothing in this Act shall be construed to repeal any Act or Regulation in force for the suspension or dismissal of Principal and other Sadr. Amins. or of Deputy Magistrates or Deputy Collectors, but a commission may be issued for the trial of any charge against any of the said officers, under this Act, in any case in which the Government shall think it expedient."
624. Saving of enactments as to dismissal of certain officers—Commission under Act for their trial.— Nothing in this Act shall be construed to repeal any Act or Regulation in force for the suspension or dismissal of Principal and other Sadr. Amins. or of Deputy Magistrates or Deputy Collectors, but a commission may be issued for the trial of any charge against any of the said officers, under this Act, in any case in which the Government shall think it expedient.324. Saving of enactments as to dismissal of certain officers—Commission under Act for their trial.— Nothing in this Act shall be construed to repeal any Act or Regulation in force for the suspension or dismissal of Principal and other Sadr. Amins. or of Deputy Magistrates or Deputy Collectors, but a commission may be issued for the trial of any charge against any of the said officers, under this Act, in any case in which the Government shall think it expedient."
25. Saving of power of removal without inquiry under Act.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the authority of Government, for suspending or removing any public servant for any cause without an inquiry under this Act.
1\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for the former section. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O.
1937, for the former section."
2\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial”. tc" 2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950,
for “Provincial”."
3\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for the former section. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O.
1937, for the former section."
4\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial”. tc" 2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950,
