    (30) As per the above Article of the Constitution, matters with respect to entries 1,2 & 18 of the State List and entries 64,65 & 66 of that List insofar as they relate to the said Entries 1,2 &18 are not matters on which the Delhi State could make any law. The subject matter covered by those entries are still continuing to vest in the Parliament. Entry 18 reads thus:-    "18.Land, that is to say, right in or over land, land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents; transfer and alienation of agricultural land; land improvement and agricultural loans; colonization."  
    From the above it is clear that the subject relating to the right in or over land and land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant is a matter within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Parliament. The State Assembly is not given the competence to legislate over the said matter. If so, the executive power of the Union Government extends to the said subject.   
    (31) Mr. Bhandari contended that Entry 45 of the Second List in the 7th Schedule as well as Entry 49 thereof shall have to be read together so as to confer a Power in the State to make a law or exercise its executive power in respect of the conversion of the lease hold interest in the free hold.   
    (32) Any other interpretation, according to Mr. Bhandari will defeat the democratic structure of the State. The learned counsel contended that the Parliament consists of members representing the people all over India while the State Assembly comprises of the representatives of the people of Delhi alone. Therefore, the latter should, be given the power to make any law which affects the people of Delhi.   
    (33) This court is concerned with the constitutional provision. The constitution, as it stands now, has given the relevant power to the Parliament and the Union Government. It is not for this court to examine the wisdom of retaining these powers with the Parliament. Parliament also is a democratically elected body. Therefore, it is not possible for me to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner.   
(34) For the reasons stated above, I hold that the Scheme is defective,
insofar as the areas referred as Ashok Vihar and Wazirpur and a clarification
or rectification in that regard shall have to be done by the respondent within
the time stipulated in this order. It is also declared that the scheme is
defective and is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India in so
far as the scheme for conversion impugned in these writ petitions fail to
classify the original allottees who are in possession of the allotted lands
under the rehabilitation schemes, separately and provide them a reduced rate
of conversion fee. The respondents are directed to take steps to remove the
defects so that the scheme could be implemented to realise its objects
