twelve years hence will not be fit for felling now. Therefore, it is not a
mere sale of the trees as wood. It is more. It is not just a right to cut a
tree but also to derive a profit
-from the soil itself, in the shape of the nourishment in the soil that goes into the tree and maker, it grow till it is of a size and age fit for felling as timber; and, if already of that size, in order to enable it to continue to live till the petitioner chooses to fell it. This aspect is emphasised in clause (5) of the deed where the cutting of teak trees under 1/2 feet is prohibited. But, as soon as they reach that girth within the twelve years, they can be felled. And clause (4) speaks of a first cutting and a second cutting and a 278 third cutting. As regards trees that could be cut at once, there is no obligation to do so. They can be left standing till such time as the petitioner chooses to fell them. That means that they are not to be converted into timber at a reasonably early date and that the intention is that they should continue to live and derive nourishment and benefit from the soil; in other words, they are to be regarded as trees and not as timber that is standing and is about to be cut and used for the purposes for which timber is meant. It follows that the grant is not only of standing timber but also of trees that are not in a fit state to be felled at once but which are to be felled gradually as they attain the required girth in the course of the twelve years;. and further, of trees that the petitioner is not required to fell and convert into timber at once even though they are of the required age and growth. Such trees cannot be regarded as timber that happens to be standing because timber, as such, does not draw nourishment from the soil. If, therefore, they can be left for an appreciable length of time, they must be regarded as trees and not as timber. The difference lies there. 
The result is that, though such trees as can be regarded as standing timber at
the date of the document, both because of their size and girth and also
because of the intention to fell at an early date, would be moveable, property
for the purposes of the Transfer of Property and Registration Acts, the
remaining trees that are also covered by the grant will be immoveable
property, and as the total value is Rs. 26,000, the deed requires
registration. Being unregistered, it passes no title or interest and,
therefore, as in Ananda Behera's case (1) the petitioner has no fundamental
right which she can enforce.
My lord the Chief Justice and my learned brothers prefer to leave the question
whether the deed here is a lease or a licence coupled with a grant, open
