

Andhra High Court

Praga Tools Ltd. vs Commissioner Of Income-Tax on 19 November, 1979

Equivalent citations: 1980 123 ITR 773 AP

Author: C Kondatah

Bench: C Kondaiah, Punnayya, Amareswari

JUDGMENT C. Kondatah, C.J.

1\. The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad Bench, has, at the instance
of the assessee, referred the following question of law under Section 256(1)
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as " the Act ") for the
opinion of this court:

" Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sums of Rs.
1,01,282 and Rs. 97,357 paid by the assessee by way of royalty to its foreign
collaborators during the accounting years relevant for the assessment years
1965-66 and 1966-67 respectively are deductible as revenue expenditure under
Section 37 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ? "

2\. In order to appreciate the scope and ambit of the question, we shall
briefly refer to the facts admitted or found by the Tribunal which gave rise
to the question : The applicant-assessee is a Government company under Section
617 of the Companies Act, 1956, which has been carrying on business in the
manufacture of precision and machine tools, machinery and forgings since 1942.
On January 2, 1961, the assessee-company had entered into a licence agreement
with a foreign collaborator, M/s. A. A. Jones and Shipman Ltd., Leicester, U.
K., for the manufacture of what is described as " Jones-Shipman " Tool and
Cutter Grinding Machine Model 310--16"X8" capacity, complete with all items of
standard equipment, M. 20 motor-drive unit and X-17 Indexing attachment for
which the collaborator was to supply the necessary designs, drawings,
technical know-how and assistance. Jones & Shipman agreed to assist the
assessee in the production of the main castings of the machine and also to
sell all relative jigs, fixtures, tools, gauges, raw materials and special
parts as ordered at their normal commercial retail value. Jones & Shipman also
agreed to furnish all the technical information with the latest modifications
and standards. In consideration of the grant of the manufacturing rights and
for providing assistance under the agreement, the assessee-company agreed to
pay to Jones & Shipman 1,000--500 on the signing of the agreement and 500 on
the supply of the documents mentioned in Clause 4 of the agreement--and
royalty of 5% of the Indian selling price on the production of the machine
described in Clause 1 during the currency of the agreement. Clause 13 of the
agreement provides that royalty would become due when any machine or part
thereof is completed and ready for despatch from the works of the assessee-
company. The net amount of royalty to be paid by the assessee for the ten
years from the signing of the agreement shall not be less than 20,000 sterling
and it shall be payable half-yearly in sterling within sixty days of the half-
years ending with 31st March and 30th September, respectively, and shall be
subject to Indian taxes. The agreement is for a period of 10 years and it may
be renewed thereafter for a period of five years by mutual consent, Under
Clause 15, the termination of the agreement shall not affect the rights of the
assessee-company to use for the purpose of their business all the information,
techniques, patents, copyrights, drawings, plans and documents relating to the
machine which have been transferred from the foreign collaborators to the
assessee or which may have come into their possession during the agreement.
The assessee would be entitled to use this information free of any royalty or
other payments and without any objection on the part of the foreign
collaborator provided that all payments under the agreement have been duly
paid by the assessee. However, the assessee-company shall no longer have the
right to use the Jones & Shipman name or trademark. The rights and liabilities
of either party to the agreement shall not be assigned to a third party
without the written consent of the other party according to Clause 17.

3\. Similarly, the assessee had entered into another agreement on October 26,
1960, with M/s. Kearney & Trecker-C.V.A. Ltd., Hove, Sussex, U.K., for the
manufacture of what is described as " Drill chucks contained in the
manufacturing range of C.V.A." Clause 1 of the agreement, which is very
material, reads thus :

" The object of this agreement is to enable Praga to manufacture under licence
Drill chucks contained in the manufacturing range of C.V.A. and for this
purpose the two parties agree to collaborate to the utmost,"

4\. The collaborator agreed to supply to the assessee the complete
manufacturing drawings and lists of parts, prints of all jigs, fixtures,
special tools, gauges and special machines used by C. V. A. for the
manufacture, assembly, inspection, complete specifications of raw materials,
complete sets of up to date layouts, and technical service by deputing their
senior executives and expert technicians. Clause 10 of the agreement states
that in consideration of the grant of the manufacturing rights and for
providing supplies, services and their assistance under the agreement, the
assessee-company shall make a payment of 2,000-- 500 on the signing of the
agreement, 500 on the supply of documents and 1,000 within twelve months of
the signing of the agreement--free of Indian taxes to C.V.A. The agreement
shall be for a period of ten years which may be extended for a further period
on terms to be agreed upon by the parties. Clause 12 requires the assessee-
company to pay the collaborator during the currency of the agreement, royalty
of 5% on sales effected by the assessee subject to Indian taxes calculated in
Praga's list prices reduced by the commission payable to Praga's selling
agents. The said royalty is payable half-yearly in sterling before the expiry
of sixty days from the end of the half-year periods. The termination of the
agreement after the period of ten years shall not affect the right of the
assessee-company to use for the purpose of their business all the information,
techniques, patents and copy right and other rights, drawings, plans and
documents which have been transferred to it or which may have come to their
knowledge or possession pursuant to the agreement without any royalty and
other payments. The collaborator agreed to the grant of expert right to the
assessee, for the Drill chucks covered by the agreement, in respect of Burma,
Ceylon and Pakistan. Clause 15 prohibits assignment of the rights and
liabilities for either party under the arrangement to a third party or firm
without the written consent of the other party.

5\. By virtue of the aforesaid agreements, the assessee had paid by way of
royalty to the aforesaid two foreign collaborators the following amounts
during the accounting years relevant for the assessment years under
consideration.

Asst. Year A. A. Jones & Shipman Ltd.

Kearney & Tracker-C. V. A. Ltd.

Total Rs.

Rs.

Rs.

1965-66 84,036 17,246 1,01,282 1966-67 74,697 22,660 97,357

6\. The assessee's claim for deduction of the aforesaid two amounts by
treating the same as revenue expenditure was disallowed by the ITO in his
orders of assessment holding that they were capital payments. The AAC allowed
the appeals preferred by the assessee-company holding that the payments
related strictly to production and they must be regarded as an integral part
of the profit earning process. Aggrieved by the decision of the AAC, the
department instituted appeals before the Tribunal contending that the royalty
payments in question were made for the acquisition of an asset of an enduring
nature, viz., drawings, designs and technical know-how for the manufacture of
a different type of machinery which was not in the production range of the
assessee but was a patented product of the collaborators and as such they
constituted capital expenditure. The Tribunal, relying upon the decisions of
this court in Hylam's case [1973] 87 ITR 310, Karnataka High Court in
Kirloskar's case [1968] 67 ITR 23 and of the Bombay High Court in Vithaldas's
case [1968] 68 ITR 388 and on a consideration of all the relevant clauses in
the agreements, held thus :

" What the assessee was acquiring from the collaborators was a licence to
manufacture certain patented machinery which was in the production range of
the collaborators and patented by them as also the designs and drawings and
technical know-how for the manufacture together with complete specification of
raw materials required for the component parts of each item. The drawings and
designs and the know-how became the property of the assessee and the assessee
was free to use the same in its manufacture after the termination of the
agreement with the collaborators.......

Though the payment of royalties is linked to the selling price of the
machinery, it cannot be treated as an integral part of the 'profit earning
process'. The payment was essentially for acquisition of a capital asset. But
it has been agreed to be computed with reference to production. If the payment
directly related to the manufacture of items which are already in the
production range of the assessee and what the assessee acquired was only
information regarding improved techniques of manufacture, the payment could be
said to relate to the ' profit earning process' and as such revenue in nature.
But that was not the case here. As already stated, the two types of machinery
to be manufactured by the assessee under the agreements were entirely new
items which were patented by the collaborators and which were in their
production range only."

7\. Again in para. 10 it proceeded to find :

" Unlike in Ciba of India Ltd.'s case , the assessee in the case before us
became the owner of the designs and the know-how for the manufacture of the
machinery patented by the collaborators and that the collaborators permanently
parted with the technical know-how in favour of the assessees which enures to
the benefit of the assessee even after the expiry of the agreement. Again, it
is not the case of the assessee that the payments in question were made for
the purpose of acquiring a new technical know-how for the manufacture of the
items of machinery which was already in its production range."

8\. The Appellate Tribunal, therefore, held that the royalty payments in
question made by the assessee to the foreign collaborators were rightly
treated as capital expenditure by the ITO. Hence this ^eference.

9\. The sum and substance of the contention of Sri P.R. Ramachandra Rao,
learned counsel for the assessee, is that the assessee has not acquired, under
the agreements from the foreign collaborators, any advantage of an enduring
benefit of permanent nature except securing technical know-how, knowledge and
assistance to enable it to manufacture Jones & Shipman tool and cutter
grinding machine and drill chucks as described in the agreements and that,
therefore, the payment of half-yearly royalty on the basis of the production
and sale of the products so manufactured is in the nature of revenue but not
capital expenditure. According to him, this case is governed by the decision
of the Supreme Court in Ciba's case and the decision of this court in Hylam's
case requires reconsideration as the decisions of the Mysore and Bombay High
Courts in Kirolskar's case [1968] 67 ITR 23 and Vithaldas's case [1968] 68 ITR
388 respectively on which reliance has been placed in Hylam's case [1973] 87
ITR 310 have been overruled.

10\. This claim of the assessee is resisted by the learned standing counsel
for the revenue, Sri P. Rama Rao, contending, inter alia, that what the
assessee acquired, according to the terms of the agreement, has been rightly
held by the Tribunal to be of an enduring benefit of a permanent nature and,
therefore, the payment of royalties, though linked to the production and
selling price of the machinery, is essentially for the acquisition of a
capital asset. But the same cannot be treated as an integral part of profit-
earning process. Further, it is emphasised that the two types of machinery to
be manufactured by the assessee under the agreements were found to be entirely
new items which were patented by the collaborators and which were in their
production range only. The assessee, without payment of any royalty or any
amount, would be entitled to make use of the know-how, knowledge and patent
acquired by it after the expiry of the periods specified in the agreements.
The decision in Ciba's case cannot be taken aid of by the assessee herein as
in that case the assessee upon the termination of the agreement agreed to
return to the Swiss company all copies of information, scientific data or
material sent to it and to refrain from communicating the same to any person
and not to use the patents and trade marks.

11\. In this reference, we are not called upon to decide the nature of the
lump-sum payments of 1,000 and 2,000 made by the assessee to the foreign
collaborators on the signing of the agreements and on the supply of documents
and within twelve months after the signing of the agreements as mentioned in
Clauses 12 and 10, respectively. What we are concerned with is about the
nature and character of the half-yearly payments of royalties in respect of
the Jones & Shipman tools and cutter grinding machine and drill chucks on the
basis of the production and sales respectively subject to Indian taxes during
the accounting years corresponding to the assessment years 1965-66 and
1966-67.

12\. Now, therefore, we have to consider the question as to what is meant by
the acquisition of an asset or advantage of an enduring benefit which would
make the payment capital in nature and whether the acquisition of technical
know-how and scientific assistance and manufacturing process would amount to
acquiring an asset or advantage of an enduring benefit.

13\. Before adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case on hand, we
may usefully refer to the law relating to the nature and character of an
expenditure. The question whether a particular expenditure is capital or
revenue in nature is a vexed one. The dividing line between the two is very
thin. There is no rule of thumb or test or principle which has got a universal
application to determine this question. However, courts have laid down certain
broad tests to be decided as to whether an expenditure is capital or revenue.
The court has to examine the nature and character of the business and the
objects for which the expenditure has been incurred. Viewed in the larger
context of business necessity or expedience, each factor or circumstance by
itself is not decisive. It is the totality or the cumulative effect of all the
material facts and circumstances evidenced by documents and the surrounding
circumstances that are to be taken into consideration to arrive at a decision
as to what was the nature and character of the transaction from the commercial
point of view. Different tests have been enunciated and applied in this regard
by the courts in various decisions, of which we may mention here some
important decisions pertaining to the test of acquiring an asset or advantage
of an enduring benefit which is material for the determination of the question
before us.

14\. The Supreme Court in Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. v. CIT [ approved the
principles laid down by the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court in Benarsidas
Jagannath, In re [1947] 15 ITR 185, for the purpose of deciding the question
as to whether an expenditure is revenue or capital. Therein it was laid down
at page 45 :

" If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset
or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business, it is properly
attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure. If on the
other hand it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence any such
asset or advantage but for running the business or working it with a view to
produce the profits, it is a revenue expenditure. If any such asset or
advantage for the enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired or brought
into existence it would be immaterial whether the source of payment was the
capital or the income of the concern or whether the payment was made once and
for all or was made periodically. The aim and object of the expenditure would
determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure
or a revenue expenditure. The source or the manner of the payment would then
be of no consequence."

15\. The aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court is an authority for the
proposition that it would be properly attributable to capital if the
expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or
advantage for the enduring benefit of the business whereas if the expenditure
is made for the purpose of running the business or working it with a view to
produce the profits, it would be a revenue expenditure. It would be immaterial
whether the source of the payment was capital or whether the payment was made
once and for all.

16\. We may usefully refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in Gotan Lime
Syndicate v. CIT , wherein it was held that the expenditure incurred to secure
an enduring advantage must not invariably be treated as capital expenditure
and the royalty payment including the dead-rent, which has no direct nexus for
securing an enduring benefit but has relation to the raw material, viz., lime
deposits, was held to be a revenue expenditure. It was categorically held:

" It is not in every case that an expenditure in respect of an advantage of an
enduring nature is capital expenditure."

17\. The following passage in the aforesaid case at page 727, which succinctly
lays down the law on this aspect, may be noticed:

" It is not the law that, in every case, if an enduring advantage is obtained,
the expenditure for securing it must be treated as capital expenditure, for,
as pointed out by Channell J., in Alianza Company v. Bell [1904] 2 KB 666,
673, ' In the ordinary case, the cost of the material worked Up in a
manufactory is not a capital expenditure; it is a current expenditure, and
does not become a capital expenditure merely because the material is provided
by something like a forward contract, under which a person for the payment of
a lump sum down secures a supply of the raw material for a period extending
over several years', This illustration shows that it is not in every case that
an expenditure in respect of an advantage of an enduring nature is capital
expenditure. The reason underlying the illustration is that the payments made
to enter into a forward contract have relation to the raw material eventually
to be obtained. Viscount Cave acknowledged that in certain cases an
expenditure for obtaining an enduring advantage need not be capital
expenditure for he inserted the words ' in the absence of special
circumstances leading to an opposite conclusion ' within brackets.

We are of the opinion, that in the present case, the royalty payment is not a
direct payment for securing an enduring advantage : it has relation to the raw
material to be obtained......the royalty payment, including the deadrent, have
relation only to the lime deposits to be got. "

18\. Applying the aforesaid principles enunciated by the Supreme Court, we
have to examine whether in fact an enduring advantage or permanent benefit has
been secured by the assessee in the present case by the payment of the
royalties in question during the years of account to the two foreign
collaborators and if it is so, whether the royalty payment is or is not a
direct payment for securing an enduring advantage or the payments have
relation only for running the business or working it with a view to produce
profits

19\. As pointed out earlier, the Tribunal, in arriving at its conclusion that
the payment of royalties by the assessee to the foreign collaborators was made
to secure an enduring advantage for permanent benefit, relied upon the
decision of this court in Hylam's case and distinguished the decision of the
Supreme Court in Ciba's case .

20\. We may usefully refer at this stage to Ciba's case , which is the leading
case on this aspect. The respondent-assessee therein was an Indian subsidiary
of Ciba Ltd. of Basle, a Swiss company whose pharmaceutical section in India
was taken over by the assessee from January 1, 1948. The Swiss company under
an agreement dated December 17, 1949, granted to the assessee full and sole
right of licence under the patent listed in the agreement to make use,
exercise and vend the inventions specified therein in India and also a licence
to use some specified trade marks and deliver to the assessee all processes,
formulae, scientific data, working rules and prescription^ pertaining to the
manufacture or processing of products discovered and developed in the Swiss
company's laboratories and supply all scientific and technical know-how and
assistance. The assessee in consideration of the aforesaid right to receive
scientific and technical know-how and assistance from the foreign
collaborator, agreed to make contributions of 5%, 3% and 2% of the net sale
price of the products sold by the assessee for a period of five years from
January 1, 1948, (i) technical consultancy, and technical service rendered and
research work done ; (ii) cost of raw material used for experimental work; and
(iii) royalties on trade marks used by the assessee. By a supplemental
agreement dated July 15, 1949, the contribution under Article III payable by
the assessee was reduced from 10 per cent. to 6 per cent. of the net selling
price of the pharmaceuticals. The payments made by the assessee to the Swiss
company during the accounting years corresponding to the assessment years
1949-50 to 1953-54 were claimed as deductions under Section 10(2)(xii) of the
Indian I.T. Act, 1922. The ITO himself allowed the amount of 2% paid towards
royalty of trade marks but disallowed the contributions made towards technical
consultancy and technical service and the cost of raw material used for
experimental work. The AAC agreed with the assessing authorities. But the
Income-tax Appellate Tribunal allowed the deductions under Section 10(2)(xii)
or, in any event, under Section 10(2)(xv). The High Court of Bombay affirmed
the view of the Tribunal that the expenditure was admissible under Section
10(2)(xv). On appeal by the department, the Supreme Court noted the following
facts that emerged from the agreement entered into in that case, viz., (1) the
licence was for a period of five years, liable to be terminated in certain
eventualities even before the expiry of the period ; (2) the object of the
agreement was to obtain the benefit of the technical assistance for running
the business ; (3) the licence was granted to the assessee subject to the
rights actually granted or which may be granted after the date of the
agreement to other persons ; (4) the assessee was expressly prohibited from
divulging confidential information to third parties without the consent of the
Swiss company ; (5) there was no transfer of the fruits of research once for
all; and (6) the stipulated payment was recurrent, dependent upon the sales,
and only for the period of the agreement. The Supreme Court, on a
consideration of the facts, agreed with the view of the High Court that the
payments were admissible under Section 10(2Xxv) and held that the assessee did
not acquire any asset or advantage of an enduring nature for the benefit of
its business except acquiring the right to draw for the purpose of carrying on
its business as a manufacturer and dealer of pharmaceutical products, upon the
technical knowledge and know-how of the Swiss company for a limited period,
nor did the Swiss company part with any asset of its business.

21\. In ACC-Vickers Babcock Ltd. v. CIT [1976] 103 ITR 321 (Bom), it was held
that payment of Rs. 47,602 by the assessee therein to a foreign firm, viz.,
Fuller, on account of the first instalment in the financial year 1961-62 for
the grant of the exclusive right and licence to manufacture and sell and use
in India certain types of machinery and equipment, viz., supply of know-how,
drawings, designs, technical and engineering knowledge, was a revenue
expenditure but not capital. It differed from the view taken by the Tribunal
in that case. The Tribunal found that there was transfer of the fruits of the
research, inasmuch as the necessary know-how designs, drawings, specifications
and technical information which were in the possession of Fuller were passed
on to the assessee-company and the right acquired was different from the
object of technical assistance in Ciba's case . The aforesaid finding of the
Tribunal was disapproved by the High Court in a reference. The High Court,
while considering the purpose of the expenditure laid much stress on the
opening words of Clause 10 of the agreement therein that "all the payments
referred to in Sub-clauses (a) to (d) thereof have been agreed to be made in
consideration for the technical and manufacturing information given by Fuller
to AVB (the assessee) and the right and licence for manufacture and sell the
Fuller-equipment listed therein ". The learned judge, Tulzapurkar J., speaking
for the court, observed at page 330 (103 ITR):

" Having regard to various clauses of the agreement in question and the
salient features thereof as indicated above, it seems to us quite clear that
the expenditure of 1,00,000 U.S. dollars payable in yearly instalments of
10,000 U.S. dollars for ten years was clearly for the purpose of securing from
Fuller a licence and all the necessary technical know-how including designs,
drawings, specifications and other technical information to enable the
assessee to manufacture and sell that equipments listed in the agreement. In
other words, the payment was for the benefit of the entire technical know-how
agreed to be made available to the assessee to enable it to manufacture and
sell the listed equipments so that the assessee could earn profits. The
expenditure was thus so related to the carrying on of the business that it
will have to be regarded as an integral part of the profit-making process and
there does not appear to be any indication that the payments undertaken to be
made by the assessee under the agreement, particularly under Sub-clause (a) of
Clause 10, was for the purpose of acquisition of an asset or a right of a
permanent character, the possession whereof was a condition precedent to the
continuance of its business. "

22\. The contention of the learned counsel for the revenue is that the
agreement entered into in Ciba's case , was for a period of five years only
which was liable to be terminated even earlier in certain events where as the
agreement in the aforesaid case was for ten years and was liable to be
extended by periods of five years unless written notice of six months for
termination was given by either party and, therefore, it is not decisive of
the matter. The duration of the agreement is not very material as it is only
for some period. This decision is an authority for the proposition that where
an expenditure is incurred while the business is going on and is not incurred
either for extension of the business or for the substantial replacement of its
equipment, the aim and object of the expenditure would determine its character
and nature. The source or the manner of the payment would then be of no
consequence. Where the expenditure is so related to the carrying on or
conducting of the business that it might be regarded as an integral part of
the profit-making process, it should be held to be revenue expenditure.
However, if the purpose and aim of the expenditure is to acquire an asset or a
right of a permanent character, the possession whereof is a condition
precedent to the commencement or continuance of the business, the expenditure
would be of a capital nature.

23\. A Full Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Mysore Kirloskar Ltd. v. CIT
[1978] 114 ITR 443, held that the acquisition of the right to draw up the
technical knowledge of the foreign companies for a limited period of 15 years
for the purpose of carrying on its business does not amount to acquiring any
asset or advantage of an enduring nature for the benefit of its business and
the payments made by the assessee therein under the agreements to a foreign
collaborator were revenue in nature. The object of the agreements therein,
which were for a period of 15 years, was to obtain the benefit of the
technical assistance for running the business and therein the permission was
granted to the assessee subject to rights actually granted or which may be
granted after the date of the agreements to other persons though outside India
and the foreign companies had agreed to make their research and advantage
available to the assessee. The earlier decision of the Division Bench of the
Mysore High Court in Mysore Kirloskar Ltd. v. CIT [1968] 67 ITR 23, on which
much reliance has been placed by this court in Hylam's case [1973] 87 ITR 310,
was overruled.

24\. The Calcutta High Court has consistent taken the view that payments made
by an assessee to a foreign collaborator in the circumstances as found in the
present case are invariably revenue expenditure. See CIT v. Hindustan General
Electrical Corporation Ltd. [1971] 81 ITR 243, CIT v. Aluminium Corporation of
India Ltd. [1973] 92 ITR 563, CIT v, Associated Electrical Industries [1975]
101 ITR 844, CIT v. Indian Oxygen Ltd. [1978] 112 ITR 1025 and Agarwal
Hardware Works (P.) Ltd, v. CIT [1980] 121 ITR 510. In the case cited last,
viz., Agarwal Hardware Works (P.) Ltd. v. CIT , the Calcutta High Court
specifically dissented from the view taken by this court in Hylam's case .

25\. We shall now refer to the Hylam's case [1973] 87 ITR 310, decided by a
Division Bench of this court. Therein the assessee paid royalties for
acquiring a licence for the use of the special knowledge of the processes
covered by certain patents owned by the collaborator English company in
respect of the manufacture of anew product copper-clad laminates. Though the
new laminated project was of an allied nature, it was held that it did not
amount to extension of the assessee's business and that the acquisitions of
the special knowledge in respect of a new product would amount to the
acquisition of an advantage or an asset of the assessee's business. The
collaborator company parted with their patents, which were the assets, in
favour of the assessee for the whole of the unexpired period of those patents,
whose normal life was 16 years. The royalties payable were only 5,000 and the
assessee was no more liable to pay any royalty if the amount paid had reached
5,000 which represented 1/3rd of the cost and the expenses incurred by the
English company in developing such laminated products. The payment of the so-
called royalty had no direct relation to the user of these patents. The
reasons assigned by the learned judges to distinguish that case from Ciba's
case were :

(1) The technical know-how in Ciba's case was with regard to the same products
which the assessee-company was already manufacturing whereas the special
knowledge related to a new product in Hylam's case .

(2) In Ciba's case after the expiry of the agreed period, the special
knowledge, scientific data and the material relating to it had to be returned
to the Swiss company whereas it was not so in Hylam's case.

(3) In Ciba's case, the period of agreement was only five years and it was
also liable to be cancelled earlier whereas the advantage or the benefit of
the user of the patented processes in Hylam's case was not only for the entire
life of those patents but also for the extensions and re-grants thereof.

(4) The price for the entire user in Hylam's case , had been fixed at 5,000
whereas no price as such had been fixed for the user of the special knowledge
for the entire period of licence or use in Ciba's case .

26\. The first reason of the learned judges that in Ciba's case , the product
related to one which the assessee-company was already manufacturing is not
correct. In Ciba's case, art, 1 of the deed of agreement provided thus (p.
696):

" (1) Ciba Basle will communicate currently and/or at request of Ciba Pharma
all the results of its research work, in so far as they relate to the said
products which, are already manufactured or processed or sold by Ciba Pharma
or which shall hereafter with the prior approval of Ciba Basle be manufactured
or processed or sold by Ciba Pharma......In this case Ciba Basle undertakes to
deliver to Ciba Pharma all processes, formulae, scientific data, working rules
and prescriptions pertaining to the manufacture or processing of said
products, which have been discovered and developed in Ciba Balse's
laboratories and will forward to Ciba Pharma as far as possible all scientific
and bibliographic information, pamphlets or drafts, which might be useful to
introduce licensed preparations and to promote their sale in India. "

27\. To the same effect is the observation of the learned judge, Tulza-purkar
(as he then was) of the Bombay High Court who delivered the judg-

ment for the court in ACC-Vickers Babcock Ltd. v. CIT [1976] 103 ITR 321 at
page 336 i " With respect, we may point out that in Ciba's case , the
technical ' know-how ' was not merely with regard to the same products which
Ciba India was already manufacturing but the technical ' know-how ' was also
to extend to new products which Ciba India were to manufacture after the
agreement had come into operation. As such, in our view, the aspect that the
technical ' know-how ' is supplied for manufacturing a new product, though
relevant, would not be decisive of the matter. "

28\. The period of five years specified in the agreement in Ciba's case is not
decisive. However, Hylam's case is distinguishable on two material facts found
therein. Firstly, the payment of fixed sum of 5,000 in the shape of royalty
was equivalent to 1/3rd of the cost and the expenses incurred by the
collaborator-English company in developing new laminated products at the
request of the assessee. Secondly, the use of the patents was not for any
limited period but for the whole of the unexpired period of the patents.

29\. The decision of this court in Hylam's case [1973] 87 ITR 310 is,
therefore, incorrect and Ciba's case was distinguished on incorrect and
unsubstantial grounds particularly because the agreement in that case was of a
short duration and that at the end of it copies of information supplied had to
be returned. The right to use a patent is not converted into a capital asset
by its being extended over the whole life of the patent. The return of copies
of technological information is immaterial since the knowledge acquired
therefrom is such that, it would never be returned and the same remains always
with the Indian company. The annual payment based on a percentage of the
turnover and unrelated to any fixed sum was held to be revenue expenditure in
Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd. v. CIT , We are unable to understand as
to how the collaboration agreements would make any difference of the nature
and character of the expenditure incurred for such annual payments.

30\. As per Lord Denning in Evans Medical Supplies Ltd. v. Moriarty [1959] 35
ITR 707 (HL), there could be no distinction between the money paid for
disclosing information of secret processes and money paid for other
information and that the amount paid for " know-how " in the course of the
assessee's trade was income and not capital. In Jeffrey v. Rolls-Royce Ltd.
[1965] 56 ITR 580 (HL), it was held that the payment received for licensing a
foreign Government to manufacture aero-engines with the accumulated technical
knowledge of the taxpayer and for supplying the necessary information,
drawings, designs, advice and assistance in the manufacture of engines by the
licensee was held to be revenue receipt. The amounts received by the taxpayer
for his imparting manufacturing technique to the licensee to design and
develop a turbine and to license its manufacture were held to be income in
English Electric Company's case [1964] 41 TC 556 (HL). The know-how cannot be
treated to be property if it is imparted for the purpose of enabling the
assessee to manufacture specialised products in the course of its business.

31\. That apart, the decision of the Bombay High Court in Vithaldas's case
[1968] 68 ITR 388 relied upon by the learned judges in Hylam's case has been
reversed by the Supreme Court. The decision of the Division Bench of the
Mysore High Court in Kirloskar's case [1968] 67 ITR 23, which has been relied
upon by the learned judges in Hylam's case, has also been overruled by the
recent Full Bench decision of the Karnataka High Court in Mysore Kirloskar
Ltd. v. CIT [1978] 114 ITR 443. With great respect to the learned judges, we
are unable to persuade ourselves to agree with the view expressed in Hylam's
case as it does not represent the correct position of law. It is, therefore,
overruled.

32\. On the other hand, the facts of the present case do squarely fall within
the decision in Ciba's case . We do not find any rationale or basis to
distinguish Ciba's case from the present one as pointed out earlier.

33\. On a close reading of the facts and circumstances we are of the view that
the expenditure, with which we are concerned in the present case, is having
direct nexus, connection or relation to the very carrying on or conducting of
the business of the assessee which must be regarded as an integral part of the
profit-making process. The very aim and object of the payment of royalty,
which is based on the production and sale of the products manufactured by the
assessee-company, is with the sole purpose of securing from the foreign
collaborators manufacturing licence and all the necessary technical know-how
including designs, drawings, specifications and other technical information to
enable the assessee-company to make and sell the products indicated in the
agreements. This is amply proved by Clause (1) of the earlier agreement dated
26th October, 1960, between the assessee-company and Kearney & Trecker-C.V.A.
Ltd., which reads thus : ' " The object of this agreement is to enable Praga
to manufacture under licence Drill chucks contained in the manufacturing range
of C.V.A. and for this purpose the two parties agree to collaborate to the
utmost."

34\. The mere fact that the foreign collaborators have agreed to grant to the
assessee-company the right to manufacture under exclusive licence in India,
under the trade mark " C. V. A. Praga " Drill Chucks of all sizes and
descriptions as listed in C.V.A. price lists in the first agreement and the
right to manufacture under exclusive licence in India under the Jones &
Shipman trademark " Jones-Shipman " tool and cutter-grinding machine with all
the technical know-how and assistance, would not in any way alter the very
nature and character of the payments in question. By Clause 2 of Article II,
the Swiss company in Ciba's case granted to the assessee " full and sole right
and licence " in the territory of India under the patent listed in Sch. I, to
make use, exercise and vend the inventions referred to therein and to use the
trade marks set out in Sch. II in the territory of India. Hence, this would
not in any way alter the position in the present case.

35\. The Tribunal appears to have applied the decision of Hylam's case on the
assumption that the facts are similar. In the present case also, as in the
case of Ciba's case, the assessee was prohibited to use the trade mark of
Jones-Shipman after the expiry of the agreement. But the Tribunal took the
view that such a restriction does not exist in the agreement. In the case of
the other agreement, the rights and liabilities of either party to the
agreement shall not be assigned to a third party or firm without the consent
of the other party. Such restriction was considered in Ciba's case to be a
pointer to indicate that the expenditure is of revenue character.

36\. The Tribunal is more obsessed by the fact that the two types of machinery
to be manufactured by the assessee under the agreements were entirely new
items which were patented by the collaborators, that the assessee became the
owner of the designs and the know-how for the manufacture of the machinery
patented by the collaborators and that the collaborators permanently parted
with the technical know-how in favour of the assessee which enures to the
benefit of the assessee even after the expiry of the agreement. The assessee's
counsel complains that the Tribunal had erroneously assumed that it is not the
case of the assessee that the payments in question were made for the purpose
of acquiring a new technical know-how for the manufacture of an item of
machinery which was already in its production range since it is their main
plea. When once the assessee had the advantage of utilising the special
knowledge and technical know-how along with the specific drawings, designs and
other information during the period under agreements, it does not alter the
true state of affairs by agreeing that the assessee would be free to make use
of the aforesaid technical know-how and knowledge even after the expiry of the
period of agreements. There is no property right in the know-how which is
transferable. The imparting of special knowledge and technical know-how by the
foreign collaborators to the assessee-company would be just like a teacher
selling his skill or knowledge to his pupil.

37\. In the present case, the original payments of 1,000 and 2,000 under the
two agreements are not claimed to be a revenue expenditure. The assessee had
to pay to Jones-Shipman not less than 20,000 sterling, and it may also exceed,
depending upon the circumstances. That apart, these payments are made subject
to Indian taxes. The amounts payable towards royalty are liable to Indian
taxes which include income-tax also. If it is a capital receipt, for the sale
or transfer of a capital asset no income-tax need be paid. Applying the
principles of business expediency, it is also just and proper to allow these
payments as revenue expenditure as they relate to the manufacturing process
and the profit-making process. As stated earlier, each factor by itself is not
decisive. It is the totality or the cumulative effect of all the facts and
circumstances that would be the prime guiding factor to decide the aim and
object of the expenditure, be it capital or revenue. Where the expenditure has
a direct nexus, connection or relation to the carrying on of or conducting the
business of the assessee, it must be regarded as an integral part of the
profit-making process. In such a case, it must be held to be a revenue
expenditure. Where the purpose and object of the expenditure is to acquire an
asset or right of an enduring nature or permanent character, it is a capital
expenditure.

38\. On a consideration of the entire facts and circumstances, we hold that
the expenditure in the present case is revenue in character and not capital.

39\. For all the reasons stated, our answer to the question is in the
affirmative and in favour of the assessee holding that the payments in
question are allowable deductions being revenue in character. There shall be
no order as to costs.

