

Delhi High Court

Mattel, Inc. & Ors. vs Mr. Jayant Agarwalla & Ors. on 17 September, 2008

Author: S.Ravindra Bhat

    
    
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    +                        IA No. 2352/2008 in CS(O S) 344/2008
    
                                               Reserved on: 29.05.2008
                                             Pronounced on: 17.09.2008
    
    MATTEL, INC. & ORS.                                             ..... Plaintiffs
    
                             Through Mr. N.K. Kaul, Sr. Advocate with
                             Mr.Praveen Anand, Ms. Swathi Sukumar,
                             Mr. Dhruv Anand, Mr. Tarvinder Sigh and
                             Ms. Anu Bagai, Advocates
    
                       Versus
    
    MR. JAYANT AGARWALLA & ORS.                               ..... Defendants
    
                             Through Mr. Sushant Singh with Mr. Manav
                             Kumar, Advocates
    
    
    
    CORAM:
    
    Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat
    
    1.

Whether reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? YES

2\. To be referred to the Reporter or not? YES

3\. Whether the judgment should be reported YES in the Digest?

    
    
    
    Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat
    
    
    IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008                                     Page 1
    

1\. This order shall dispose off IA No. 2352/2008 preferred by the plaintiffs
under Order XXXIX Rule 1&2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, seeking an ad
interim injunction restraining the defendants from infringing the trademark
and copyright of the plaintiffs in the board game called SCRABBLE.

2\. The first plaintiff is a company incorporated in Delaware, United States.
The second and third plaintiffs, incorporated in the United Kingdom and India
respectively, are wholly owned subsidiaries of the first plaintiff. They aver
to being leading manufacturers of toys, games and consumer products. Their
best selling brands include ‚Barbie‛, ‚Hot Wheels‛, ‚Matchbox‛, ‚Little
People‛ and a wide assortment of entertainment inspired toy lines.

3\. One of the well-known products of the plaintiffs is the board game
marketed and popularized by the name 'SCRABBLE' (hereafter referred to as 'the
game'). This word-based game challenges the players to form words on a grid;
points are scored by forming such words. It is averred that over 100 million
sets of the game have been sold in approximately 29 different languages. They
also manufacture and market board games with SCRABBLE formative marks, like
the 'Junior Scrabble', the 'Rainbow Scrabble' etc. The game was invented in
1932 by one Mr. Alfred Mosher Butts and has been redesigned since then. The
trademark SCRABBLE has been used since the year 1948. The plaintiffs aver
being owners of the trademark SCRABBLE in all countries except the United
State and Canada, where Hasbro Inc. owns it. The plaintiffs own two
registrations in relation IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 2 to the
trademark SCRABBLE in India; No.850786 in Class 9 and No. 342431 in Class 28,
from the year 1999 and 1978 respectively. It is averred that two related
applications are pending registration. These marks have also been registered
in number of other countries.

4\. The plaintiffs state that the game is very popular in a number of
countries and can be judged by the fact that the Oxford English Dictionary,
Volume XIV, Second Edition, 1991 defines 'scrabble' as ‚the proprietary name
of game in which the players use tiles displaying individual letters to form
words on a special board‛. The plaint avers that world wide, several
tournaments and competitions based on the game are conducted every year.
Further, various computer and video game versions of the game have been
released by the plaintiffs' licensees for various platforms including PC, Mac,
Amiga, Playstation, Palm OS and mobile phones. In this respect the plaintiffs
have given a list of their licensees for various platforms. They have also
advertised and promoted the game extensively through the Internet and they
maintain websites including www.scrabble.com and www.mattelscrabble.com. The
plaintiffs claim that mark SCRABBLE has become a well-known trademark within
the meaning of section 11(6) of the Trademarks Act, 1999. It is stated that
the plaintiffs have made sales to the tune of Rs. 13 corers in India from the
year 2003, and the expenditure on marketing and promotion amounted to
approximately Rs. 51 lakhs.

5\. The plaintiffs claim that every version of the game since the first in
1932 is an artistic work under section 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957 and IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 3 the plaintiffs' works are entitled to
protection in India by virtue of the International Copyright Order, 1991. The
plaintiffs have filed a table depicting the flow of title in the copyrighted
work, from the creators to the predecessors in interest of the plaintiffs and
finally themselves. Following the takeover of the second plaintiff by the
first plaintiff in 1999, the game was redesigned and the latest version
created. Apart from claiming the ownership in the artistic layout of the
board, the plaintiffs also claim to be the owners of the copyright in the
rules of the game, which according to them is a literary work under section 2
(o) of the Copyright Act, 1957.

6\. The first and second defendants are brothers and partners in the third
defendant, a firm engaged in providing IT solutions. The plaintiffs allege
being appalled to find out that the defendants had launched an online version
of their board game under the mark SCRABULOUS, as an application available
through the popular networking website www.facebook.com. The online version
was also promoted through the defendants' website www.scrabulous.com,
www.scrabulous.info and www.scrabulous.org. Such unlawful adoption of
deceptive and confusingly similar mark for the online version of the
plaintiffs' game, it is claimed amounts to infringement under section 29 of
the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and passing off. The intent to appropriate the
goodwill of the plaintiffs' mark, it is stated, is evident from the fact that
the third defendant's website advertises the launch of the Scrabulous as the
‚best place to play Scrabble online for free‛. The plaintiffs also state that
consumer IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 4 merchandise in the form of
clocks, tableware etc were also launched under the mark Scrabulous.

7\. Apart from adopting a deceptively mark, the defendants, it is alleged,
have also infringed the plaintiffs' mark by using metatags, which are machine
readable codes used by search engines to index sites. The defendants use the
following metatags: scrabble online, play scrabble online, free scrabble
online, play scrabulous live etc. The plaintiffs claim that these clearly
amount to infringement and passing off, since the defendants, through such
tags divert internet traffic away from the plaintiffs websites and mislead the
public that their (defendants') products are associated with the plaintiffs.
Similarly, the defendants also use hyperlinks to the plaintiffs' websites and
rules for the scrabble game. Some of the hyperlinks used are: download
scrabble free, play scrabble free, free online scrabble etc. The text of the
hyperlinks independent of the content of the websites, it is claimed, is
sufficient to constitute infringement.

8\. The plaintiffs claim the defendants have admitted to their rights in the
trademark SCRABBLE, when they addressed an email dated 15th January 2008 to
the first plaintiff, enquiring whether they would licence the rights to their
games. The plaintiffs have also detailed various sections of the defendants'
websites where they have referred to the plaintiffs' game and the mark
SCRABBLE. Some of them are:

    
    
          (a)    ‚Basic of Scrabble‛
    
          (b)    ‚Rules of Scrabble‛
    
    
    
    
    IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008                                         Page 5
           (c)    ‚Scrabulous is a registered trademark of J.W. Spear &
                 Son PLC and Hasbro Inc. Any and all uses of the word
    

‚Scrabulous‛ on these pages refers to this trademark. This web page in no way
is an attempt to confuse the visitor that it is the web page of Mattel or
Hasbro brand Scrabulous‛ They have also listed out instances where users of
the social networking site 'Facebook' have referred to their mark and game, on
the 'Scrabulous Wall', which is forum for comments on the scrabulous
application. For example:

    
    
          a.     "Play scrabble with me pizz‛
          c.     ‚Anyone know how to invite mates onto scrabble‛
          d.     ‚I' m really pleased with this version of Scrabble. Well
                 designed. Good job‛
          e.     ‚Awesome. I love Scrabble, thanks for making this
                 application, You, rock.‛
          f.     ‚scrabulous is the best online scrabble gaming site..l‛
    
    
    

They state these evidence deceptive similarity and confusion in the minds of
the public, between the two marks.

9\. The plaintiffs also claim that defendants have infringed their copyright
in the game board and the rules. By the use of red, pink, blue and light blue
tiles, use of identical patterns of arrangement of coloured tiles and the use
of a star pattern on the central square, the plaintiffs claim that the
defendants have infringed their copyright in the game board which is an
artistic work. Such infringing use of the plaintiffs' board game it is alleged
cause grave and irreparable loss, since they were planning to launch their
online version of the board game. Therefore, the plaintiffs IA NO.2352/2008 IN
CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 6 seek an interim injunction restraining the defendants
from infringing their rights in the trademark SCRABBLE, from infringing their
copyright in the current game board, previously used game boards, rules and
formats of the game.

10\. The defendants in their written statement allege that the copyright claim
in relation to the game board is not maintainable since the board, which is a
three dimensional article is not copyrightable. Additionally, the shape and
configuration of the board can be registered as a design, and therefore,
monopoly over the copyright extinguished the moment more than 50 articles are
produced and commercially sold under section 15(2) of the Copyright Act. The
plaintiffs do not hold a valid design registration and therefore, they cannot
claim copyright to that effect. Moreover, the defendants state that since the
plaintiffs are not the registered owners of any copyright in the rules of the
game, no injunction can be claimed in that regard too. The game board could
have been protected as a design and the monopoly thereby granted would have
lasted only for 15 years. They cannot now claim copyright over the board since
that would result in guaranteeing a protection, which does not validly exist
in law. It is averred that the said game cannot be treated as a literary work
in any manner whatsoever under section 2 (o) of the Copyright Act.

11\. The defendants state that the suit for infringement and passing off in
relation to the mark SCRABBLE is not maintainable since the word is a generic/
publici juris term, which has become the description of the game and has
become a non-distinctive mark, like Ludo, Carrom Board, Cricket, IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 7 Table Tennis etc. It is claimed that
several hotels, schools, and casinos are employing the same terminology as a
general term describing the game rather than to indicate any specific brand
supporting their trademark. The defendants allege that the plaintiffs' claims
in relation to ownership of the said trademarks are not backed by adequate
documentary evidence. They deny that SCRABBLE has become a well-known mark
since it has already become a distinctive mark, in relation to the plaintiffs'
game and that various traders are using the word 'Scrabble' in respect of game
boards in various countries.

12\. The defendants further submit that the copyright claim is not sustainable
since the patent claim for the game was applied for in 1948 and rejected by
the Patents Office. The present claim they aver amounts to switching over of
monopoly rights, which is not permissible in law. They also aver that the
plaintiffs have suppressed material information from the Court by not
disclosing that had caused a letter dated 5th July 2007 to be written to the
defendants requesting them to cease and desist the operations in relating to
the internet game Scrabulous. The defendants had thereafter, replied asking
the plaintiffs to provide particulars of the rights owned by them. The
plaintiffs replied restricting their request for cease and desist to United
States and Canada only.

13\. The defendants claim to be lawfully operating their websites and that
there have been no attempt to misappropriate any traffic. It is claimed that
that the metatags used are in relation to their product Scrabulous and not
Scrabble. Using the word scrabble in coding was a method of IA NO.2352/2008 IN
CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 8 describing the game and was not intended to indicate
any brand. They also deny that their website contains hyperlinks to various
unauthorized infringing websites. Since the word scrabble is in the public
domain, any such use cannot be infringement of the plaintiffs' rights. It is
also pointed out that the plaintiffs do not have any version of their game
online, and therefore, there is no question of diverting Internet traffic.

14\. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel, urged that the
defendants' use of the word-mark ‚Scrabulus‛ is a brazen attempt to
misappropriate the plaintiffs' goodwill and reputation in the registered
trademark SCRABBLLE. Being a registered trademark owner, the plaintiffs can
legitimately complain that the defendants' use of the mark, in respect of the
same game, which too has been blatantly copied, without as much as an effort
to even make any distinction, amounts to infringement under Section 29 of the
Trademarks Act, 1999. Reliance was placed on Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma
Vs. Navratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories, AIR 1965 SC 980, to say that in an
action for infringement, like the present case, where the similarity between
the Plaintiff's and Defendants mark is so close, either visually, phonetically
or otherwise and the Court reaches a conclusion that there is an imitation, no
further evidence is required to establish that the Plaintiff's rights are
violated. It was also argued that applying the tests indicated in Amritdhara
Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta, AIR 1963 SC 449, and Heinz Italia v. Dabur India
(2007) 6 SCC 1, the only conclusion is that the court should take note of the
similarities, rather than consider the minute dissimilarities, when adjudging
the question of IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 9 deceptive
resemblance of the rival marks. Considerable emphasis was placed on the fact,
that well known dictionaries describe SRABBLE as a proprietary game, which
establishes that the word mark has acquired a strong distinctive secondary
meaning, which the defendants are dishonestly seeking to appropriate.
According to counsel, the defendants' dishonesty is a strong factor to guide
the court into enjoining their continued use of the mark; reliance was placed
on the judgment of this court in Info Edge India Pvt.ltd. Vs. Shailesh Gupta
and Anr. 2002 (24) PTC 355 in this context.

15\. The plaintiffs also contend that there is no question of the word
SCRABBLE becoming publici juris, since the mark is at once descriptive, as
well as distinctive. Counsel relied on Godfrey Philips India Ltd., -vs- Girnar
Food & Beverages (P) Ltd 2005 (4) SCC 457 to say that a descriptive trademark
may be entitled to protection if it has assumed a secondary meaning which
identifies it with a particular product or as being from a particular source.

16\. Learned counsel submitted that copyright in the board, which comprises of
a unique grid consisting of diagonally criss-crossed coloured boxes, the tiles
with their value, the rules of the game, combined together, as well as
individually, is with the plaintiffs. Their cynical commercial exploitation by
the defendants, whose SCRABULOUS is a slavish imitation of the plaintiffs
game, amounts to infringement of copyright, which, unless injuncted, would
cause incalculable harm to the plaintiffs' commercial interests.

IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 10

17\. Mr. Sushant Singh, counsel for the defendant, submitted that there is no
question in any trademark in the word SCRABBLE, which is generic, and has
become publici juris. He supports this contention by relying on SBL LTD. v.
Himalaya Drug Co, 1997 (17) PTC (DB) and Roche & Co. v. G. Manner & Co, AIR
1970 SC 2062; to say that no one can claim an exclusive right to a generic
term and the customer will not consider the common feature and would pay more
attention to the descriptive features. Learned counsel relied on the meaning
of the expression ‚scrabble‛ in ‚the FREE ONLINE DICTIONARY‛; it defines the
term to mean ‚aimless drawing‛ and ‚a board game in which words are formed
from letters in patterns similar to a cross word puzzle‛. The dictionary also
says that used as a verb ‚Scrabble‛ means ‚feel searchingly‛.

18\. It was next urged that the plaintiffs cannot seek enforcement of the
trademark SCRABBLE, because of Section 36 of the Trademarks Act, which reads
as follows:

> ‚36. Saving for words used as name or description or an article or substance
> or service.- (1) The registration of a trade mark shall not be deemed to
> have become in valid by reason only of any use after the date of the
> registration of any word or words which the trade mark contains or of which
> it consists as the name or description of an article or substance or
> service.

> Provided that, if it is proved either -

(a) that there is well known and established use of the said word as the name
or description of the article or substance or service by a person or persons
carrying on trade therein, not being use in relation to goods or services
connected in the course of trade with the proprietor or a registered user of
the trade mark or (in the case of a certification trade mark) in relation to
goods or services certified by the proprietor, or IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS)
344/2008 Page 11

(b) that the article or substance was formerly manufactured under a patent
that a period of two years or more after the cesser of the patent has elapsed
and that the said word is the only practicable name or description of the
article or substance. The provisions of sub- section (2) shall apply. (2)
Where the facts mentioned in clause (a) or clause (b) of the proviso to sub-
section (1)are proved with respect to any words, then,-

(a) for the purpose of any proceeding under section 57 if the trade mark
consist solely of such words, the registration of the trade mark, so far as
regards registration in respect of the article or substance in question or of
any goods of the same description, or of the services or of any services of
the same description, or of the services or of any services of the same
description, as the case requires, shall be deemed to be an entry wrongly
remaining on the register.

(b) for the purpose of any other legal proceedings relating to the trade
mark,-

(i) if the trade mark consists solely of such words, all rights of the
proprietor under this Act or any other law to the use of the trade mark, or

(ii) if the trade mark contains such words and other matters, all such right
of the proprietor to the use of such words, in relation to the article or
substance or to any goods of the same description, or to the service or to any
services of the same description, as the case requires, shall be deemed to
have ceased on the date on which the use mentioned in clause (a) of the
proviso to sub-section (1) first became well known and established or at the
expiration of the period of two years mentioned in clause (b) of the said
proviso.‛

19\. Learned counsel next urged that the plaintiffs' copyright claim is
unfounded and incapable of enforcement. He urged that the plaintiffs'
documents reveal that a patent claim was made earlier. Now, the plaintiffs
cannot seek a wider protection in copyright law, for a much larger period of
time. It was argued that the Copyright Act is meant to provide protection to
expression of ideas through artistic or literary works, but not designs,
particularly of those articles which are mass produced. Counsel IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 12 submitted that Parliamentary
intention was that whenever any artistic work can be commercially exploited by
the owner, it should be excluded from protection of the Act, and
correspondingly protection can be granted under the Designs Act. Counsel
submitted that whenever the intention of putting a work to industrial use
arises, protection under Copyright Act ceases. He relied on the judgment of
this court, reported as Mircrofibres Inc.

-vs- Girdhar & Co 2006 (32) PTC 157 (Del). He also relied on Section 15(2) of the Designs Act, in support of this argument. 

20\. The above narrative would indicate that the plaintiffs' claims fall under
two categories; firstly, copyright over the game board and the rules of the
game, and secondly, claims of infringement of trademark and passing off. The
Court shall examine the copyright claims first.

21\. An essential element of copyright law is that it does not grant the
author of a literary work protection on ideas and facts. (Baker v. Seldon, 101
US 99 [1879], Nichols v. Universal Pictures Corp., 45 F.2d (2d Cir. 1930), RG
Anand v. M/s Delux Films, (1978) 4 SCC 118) It is only the creative expression
of such ideas and facts that is rewarded by law, by conferring a privilege to
exclusively exploit such expression for a limited time. Law does not protect
every such expression. The issue in Baker was whether the defendant's
publication of a book on 'book-keeping' articulating a similar manner of book
keeping as was done in the plaintiff's book amounted to infringement. Severing
the expression of the idea of book keeping from the very science of boo
keeping the Court held as follows:

IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 13 ‚On the other hand, the teachings
of science and the rules and methods of useful art have their final end in
application and use; and this application and use are what the public derive
from the publication of a book which teaches them. But as embodied and taught
in a literary composition or book, their essence consists only in their
statement. This alone is what is secured by the copyright. The use by another
of the same methods of statement, whether in words or illustrations, in a book
published for teaching the art, would undoubtedly be an infringement of the
copyright. The description of the art in a book, though entitled to the
benefit of copyright, lays no foundation for an exclusive claim to the art
itself. The object of the one is explanation; the object of the other is use.
The former may be secured by copyright. The latter can only be secured, if it
can be secured at all, by letters-patent.

The novelty of the art or thing described or explained has nothing to do with
the validity of the copyright. To give to the author of the book an exclusive
property in the art described therein, when no examination of its novelty has
ever been officially made, would be a surprise and a fraud upon the public.
That is the province of letters- patent, not of copyright.‛

22\. In the realm of copyright law the doctrine of merger postulates that were
the idea and expression are inextricably connected, it would not possible to
distinguish between two. In other words, the expression should be such that it
is the idea, and vice-versa, resulting in an inseparable ‚merger‛ of the two.
Applying this doctrine courts have refused to protect (through copyright) the
expression of an idea, which can be expressed only in a very limited manner,
because doing so would confer monopoly on the ides itself. The decision in
Herbert Rosenthal Jewelry Corporation v. Kalpakian, 446 F.2d 738(1971) is
illustrative in this regard. The plaintiffs there sued the defendants asking
them to refrain from manufacturing bee shaped jewel IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS)
344/2008 Page 14 pins. The Court held that the jewel shaped bee pin was an
idea that anyone was free to copy, the expression of which could be possible
only in a few ways; therefore, no copyright could subsist in it. In Nichols,
Judge Learned Hand spoke about the famous ‚abstractions‛ test which the courts
must follow, when confronted with the idea/expression dichotomy:

> ‚Upon any work, and especially upon a play, a great number of patterns of
> increasing generality will fit equally well, as more and more of the
> incident is left out. The last may perhaps be no more than the most general
> statement of what the play is about, and at times might consist only of its
> title; but there is a point in this series of abstractions where they are no
> longer protected, since otherwise the playwright could prevent the use of
> his ‚ideas,‛ to which, apart from their expression, his property is never
> extended. Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U.S. 82, 86, 19 S. Ct. 606, 43 L. Ed. 904;
> Guthrie v. Curlett, 36 F.(2d) 694 (C.C.A. 2).‛

23\. The case of Allen v. Academic Games League of Am., 89 F.3d 614 (9th Cir.
1996) is worth noticing at this stage. The plaintiff in that case contended
that the rule books published by the defendants to play the games developed by
the him, violated his copyright over the tournament rulebooks developed by
him. The court rejected the plaintiffs claim and held that:

> ‚A copyright only protects a particular expression of an idea and not the
> idea itself Mazer v. Stein, 347 U.S. 201, 218 (1954). Thus, ideas contained
> in a copyrighted work may be freely used so long as the copyrighted
> expression is not wholly appropriated. This is often the case with factual
> works where an idea contained in an expression cannot be communicated in a
> wide variety of ways. Landsberg v. Scrabble Crossword Game Players, Inc.,
> 736 F.2d 485, 488 (9th Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 469 U.S. 103 7 (1984).
> Consequently, the notions of idea and expression may merge from such "stock"

> IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 15 concepts that even verbatim
> reproduction of a factual work may not constitute infringement. Accord See
> v. Durang, 711 F.2d 141, 143 (9th Cir. 1983); Sid & Marty Krofft Television
> Productions, Inc. v. McDonald's Corp., 562 F.2d 11 57, 1163 (9th Cir. 1977);
> Aliotti v. R. Dakin & Co., 831 F.2d 898, 901 (9th Cir. 1987).

> This doctrine of merger is particularly applicable with respect to games
> "since they consist of abstract rules and play ideas." Midway Mfg. Co. v.
> Bandai-America, Inc., 546 F.Supp. 125, 148 (D.N.J. 1982); see also Anti-
> Monopoly, Inc. v. General Mills Fun Group, 611 F.2d 296, 300 n.1. (9th Cir.
> 1979). A similar logic has been applied to rules of a contest where most
> subsequent expressions of an idea of a rule are likely to appear similar to
> the words of a related rule. See Morrissey v. Proctor & Gamble Co., 379 F.2d
> 675, 678-79 (1st Cir. 1967); Affiliated Hospital Products, Inc. v. Merdel
> Game Mfg. Co., 513 F.2d 1183, 1188-89 (2nd Cir. 1975). Here, Allen has not
> shown that it is possible to distinguish the expression of the rules of his
> game manuals from the idea of the rules themselves. Thus, the doctrine of
> merger applies and although Allen may be entitled to copyright protection
> for the physical form of his games, he is not afforded protection for the
> premises or ideas underlying those games. To hold otherwise would give Allen
> a monopoly on such commonplace ideas as a simple rule on how youngsters
> should play their games.‛ (emphasis supplied)

24\. The doctrine of merger was also applied in Atari Inc v. North American
Philips Consumer Electronics Corp, 672 F.2d 607, ( 1982 US App. LEXIS 21341)
to deny wider protection to elements in the video games. The US Court of
Appeals (Seventh Circuit), speaking through a panel of three judges, said:

> ‚...copyright protection does not extend to games as such. Chamberlin -vs-
> Uris Sales Corp, 150 F.2d. 512 (2d. Cir. 1945); see also Anti-Monopoly, Inc.
> -vs- General Mills Fun Group 611 F. 2d. 296, 300 n. 1 (9th Cir.
    
    
          1979)...‛
    
    IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008                                          Page 16
    

> The above formulation is not meant to foreclose copyright protection to all
> games; indeed, there can be certain distinctive elements, or patterns,
> innovated or created by its author, which, though intrinsic to the game, can
> claim independent copyright protection.

25\. In India, in relation to games, rules and schemes (for playing) are not
protectable under the Patents Act, 1970; they are not deemed inventions under
the Act. Section 3 of the Patents Act, provides as follows:

> ‚3. WHAT ARE NOT INVENTIONS.

> The following are not inventions within the meaning of this Act,-

> xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx

> (m) a mere scheme or rule or method of performing mental act or method of
> playing game;...‛ An untenable patent claim- as rules of a game are- cannot
> transmigurate into a wider, longer lasting copyrightable expression. Such
> rules, in the absence of clear segregation of the expression from the idea,
> cannot be granted copyright protection. The expression, in this case is the
> idea itself.

26\. The plaintiffs' claim to copyright is in respect of the three game-
boards, with the diagonal criss-cross design with placement of the double
word, triple word, double and triple letter values, as well as rules of the
game. Every literary or artistic work, to be afforded protection, should be
‚original‛ under the Act. The content of what is 'original' has undergone
considerable change from the previously applicable ‚sweat of the brow'
doctrine spelt out in University of London Press (supra) to the 'modicum of IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 17 creativity' standard put forth in
Fiest Publication Inc. Vs. Rural Telephone Service, 199 US 340 (1991). Our
Supreme Court has also signified a shift; in Eastern Book Company v. DB Modak
2008 (1) SCC 1, following the approach of the Canadian Supreme Court in CCH
Canadian Ltd., Vs. Law Society of Upper Canada (2004) SCC 13, it rejected the
sweat of the brow doctrine, (which conferred copyright on works merely because
time, energy, skill and labour was expended, that is, originality of skill and
labour), and held that the work must be original ‚in the sense that by virtue
of selection, co- ordination or arrangement of pre-existing data contained in
the work, a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author‛.
Our Supreme Court noticed that the two positions i.e. the sweat of the brow on
the one hand, and ‚modicum of creativity‛ were extreme; it preferred a higher
threshold than the doctrine of ‚sweat of the brow‛ yet, not as high as
‚modicum of creativity‛. Thus, our law too has recognized the shift, and
mandates that not every effort or industry, or expending of skill, results in
copyrightable work, but only those which create works that are somewhat
different in character, involve some intellectual effort, and involve a
certain degree of creativity. This standard of originality, is now applicable
in respect of the plaintiffs' claim to copyright in various aspects of the
game.

27\. So far as the collocation of lines on the game board are concerned; the
diagonal colour scheme with values for words, and the combination thereof, the
element of modicum of creativity has not been shown, to measure up to the test
of ‚originality‛, post Eastern Book Company. Even otherwise, the creative
expression, if any is minimalistic not to warrant IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS)
344/2008 Page 18 copyright protection. Furthermore, and most importantly, the
application of the doctrine of merger would mean that the colour scheme on
such a board can be expressed only in a limited number of ways; if the
plaintiffs' arrangement were to be avoided, it is not known whether the idea
of such a word game could be played at all. Similarly, the reasoning in Allen
and Atari, as far as copyrightability of rules of a game are concerned apply
squarely, in this case. This doctrine of merger is applicable with respect to
games as (according to those decisions) ‚they consist of abstract rules and
play ideas." By way of illustration, the arrangement of colours, values on the
board, the collocation of lines, value for individual alphabetical tiles, etc
have no intrinsic meaning, but for the rules. If these rules- which form the
only method of expressing the underlying idea are to be subject to copyright,
the idea in the game would be given monopoly: a result not intended by the
lawmakers, who only wanted expression of ideas to be protected. Thus, this
court concludes, prima facie, that the copyright claim of the plaintiff cannot
be granted.

28\. As far as the defendants' arguments on the question of the copyright
protection in this case, not being available due to provisions of Section 15
of the Act, and provisions of the Designs Act are concerned, it would be
appropriate to set out the observations in Microfibres (supra):

> ‚In India, we have special legislations governing the protection of
> different nature of rights. Insofar as the industrial designs are concerned,
> the protection is provided under the Designs Act, 2000, which came into
> force from May, 2001 and repealed the earlier Designs Act, 1911. An
> important and relevant aspect is that both under the old Act and the new
> Act, fabric designs on textile goods have been classified as proper subject
> matter of IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 19 design protection by
> inclusion as a specific class in the Rules framed under the Acts. In the
> Designs Act of 1911, Classes 13 and 14 of the Fourth Schedule of the Rules
> dealt with printed or woven designs of textile goods other than checks and
> stripes and checks and stripes respectively. Such protection is now provided
> under Class 5 of the new Design Rules of 2001.

> 64\. Furthermore, the legislative intent is also to be kept in mind which is
> to provide protection for a certain period of time for commercial
> exploitation. Thus, nature of protection is quite different for an artistic
> work under the Copyright Act which is for the lifetime of the author /
> creator + 60 years. This is not so in the case of commercial exploitation as
> under the Designs Act and the Patent Act the period is much lesser. In the
> present case, the configuration was made only with the object of putting it
> to industrial / commercial use.

> 65\. The exclusion of an 'artistic work' as defined in Section 2(c) of the
> Copyright Act from the definition of 'design' under Section 2(d) of the
> Designs Act, 2000 is only meant to exclude the nature of artistic works like
> painting of M.F. Hussain. It is, thus, the paintings, sculptors and such
> works of art which are sought to be specifically excluded from the new Act.

> 66\. The observations of the learned Single Judge in M/s. S.S. Sarna Inc's
> case (supra) succinctly set out the concept behind excluding certain designs
> from protection under the Copyright Act which was to avoid any hindrance
> being caused to the manufacturer of sale and industrial articles. Thus, the
> intention of the Legislature has been expressed as one to protect any
> artistic work which has to be commercially exploited by the owner of the
> copyright by not providing the protection under the Copyright Act, but under
> the earlier the Designs Act, 1911. A similar view was also expressed by
> another learned Single Judge of this Court in Samsonite Corporation's case
> (supra).

To this extent, I see no difference between the intent under the old Act and
the new Act. A perusal of the Statement of Objects and Reasons for
introduction of the new Act, the handouts issued by the Design Office and the
registrations made of textile fabrics both under the old Act and the new Act
leave little manner of doubt that the protection for such configurations,
designs or works (by whichever name it may be called) is provided under IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 20 the Designs Act. It is, thus,
apparently clear that in the context of the Indian Law, it is the Design Act
of 1911 or 2000, which would give protection to the plaintiff and not the
Copyright Act. The application of mind and skill is not being denied nor the
fact that the defendants have copied the same, but that would still not amount
to the works in question being labeled as 'artistic work' within the
definition of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act and, thus, the protection is
not available under the Copyright Act. Issue No. 1 is answered accordingly.‛

29\. The objective of Copyright law is to protect the original literary,
dramatic, musical and artistic works, cinematograph films, sound recordings,
broadcasting rights and/or performers' rights. The object of Design Law, on
the other hand, is protection of the features of shape, configuration,
pattern, ornamentation, or composition of lines or colours applied to any
article whether in two dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms by
industrial process or means, whether manual, mechanical or chemical, separate
or combined which in the finished appeal to and/are judged solely by the eye,
but does not include any trade mark or property mark or artistic work.
‚Copyright‛ is defined in Section 2 (c) of the Designs Act to mean exclusive
right to apply a ‚design‛ to any article in any class in which design is
registered. ‚Copyright‛ in Section 14 of the Copyright Act is defined to mean
an exclusive right to authorize the doing of any of the acts as prescribed
therein. Section 15 of The Copyright Act precludes the subsistence of
Copyright in the Design which is registered or is capable of being registered
as a ‚design‛ under The Designs Act, 1911

30\. Section 47 (2) (c) - of the Designs Act, 2000 enables the Central
Government, for the purposes of classification of articles, (to facilitate
registration under Section 6 of the Designs Act, 2000) to frame rules.

IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 21 Pursuant to this, the Designs
Rules, 2001 were framed; Rule 10 prescribes that classification, for the
purposes of registration of various articles shall be according to the Third
Schedule (to the Rules). The third schedule, by Class 21, Entry 21-01 deals
with GAMES AND TOYS and by Entry 21-03, deals with OTHER AMUSEMENT AND
ENTERTAINMENT ARTICLES. These prima facie cover all games and amusement
articles as well as toys. Designs in respect of various articles of games and
other amusement articles, including game boards, therefore, can, prima facie,
be registered.

31\. Section 15 of the Copyright Act mandates that copyright subsists under
the Copyright Act in any design, which is registered under the Designs Act,
1911 and in respect of designs capable of registration under the Designs Act,
1911, the copyright shall cease as long as any article to which the design has
been applied has been reproduced more than 50 times by an industrial process
by the owner of the copyright or his licensee. It cannot be disputed here that
reproduction of the multicoloured game board has occurred more than 50 times,
as also the alphabetical tiles. It is not also in dispute that there is no
registration which has taken place under the Designs Act, 1911 (or under the
Designs Act, 2000). In these circumstances, the defendants' objection that
copyright cannot be claimed, is prima facie merited. For this reason too, it
is held that the plaintiffs' copyright claims cannot be granted, at this
stage.

II The Trademark claim

32\. The object of trademark law is to prevent an injury to the goodwill and
reputation of the enterprise which owns the trademark; as well as ensuring
that consumers are not misled as to the product, services or their IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 22 sources. Marks help buyers to
identify their source, and assure them of the constancy of quality from a
particular producer. The essence of a trade mark has always been that it is ‚a
badge of origin‛ (Ref Scandecor Developments AB v Scandecor Marketing AB 4
April 2001, UKHL 21 of 2001). It indicates trade source: a connection in the
course of trade between the goods and the proprietor of the mark. Trademarks
are thus, a valuable medium of advertisement, vital for marketing of products.
If the consumers understand the trademark in the context of its source, the
manufacturer is inseparably associated with it. The drawback here could be
that trademarks are misused if they serve to limit competition in the
manufacture and sales of a product.

33\. The genericness doctrine in trademark law is a method evolved to inhibit
anti-competitive use of trademarks. In Anti-Monopoly, the genericness doctrine
was described as follows:

> ‚At its simplest, the doctrine states that when a trademark primarily
> denotes a product, not the product's producer, the trademark is lost.

As we have stated, "one competitor will not be permitted to impoverish the
language of commerce by preventing his fellows from fairly describing their
own goods." Bada Co. v. Montgomery Ward & Co., 426 F.2d 8, 11 (9th Cir.),
Cert. denied, 400 U.S. 916, 91 S.Ct. 174, 27 L.Ed.2d 155 (1970). Thus, the
Lanham Act, enacted in 1947, provides for the cancellation of a trademark if
"at any time (it) becomes the common descriptive name of an article or
substance." 15 U.S.C. § 1064(c). Further, "no incontestable right shall be
acquired in a mark which is the common descriptive name of any article or
substance, patented or otherwise." 15 U.S.C. § 1065(4). Courts equate "common
descriptive name," as used in the statute, with the IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS)
344/2008 Page 23 shorthand expression "generic term." See, e. g., Abercrombie
& Fitch Co. v. Hunting World, Inc., 537 F.2d 4, 9 (2d Cir. 1976). ....One way
courts have analyzed genericness is to ask whether a term "has come to be
understood as referring . . . to the genus of which the particular product . .
. is a species." Surgicenters of America, Inc. v. Medical Dental Surgeries
Co., 601 F.2d 1011, 1014 (9th Cir. 1979); Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Hunting
World, Inc., supra, 537 F.2d at 9. The distinction is between a broad
classifying term the genus and a specific sub-classifier the species. As a
hypothetical example, suppose several manufacturers produce game equipment for
playing chess. Chessco's chess game is called EN PASSANT. When a consumer has
available in his vocabulary the broad classifier "chess," but instead asks for
EN PASSANT, we can infer that the consumer wants the "species" of chess
equipment produced by Chessco. The consumer may have innumerable reasons for
desiring EN PASSANT chess equipment: E. g., price, style, durability,
consistency of quality, goodwill engendered by a catchy commercial jingle, or
simply a liking for the sound of the trademark. But these desired
characteristics are all source-particular, in that they correlate with a given
producer, Chessco. The consumer thus uses the term EN PASSANT exactly as a
trademark should be used to enable him to recognize and ask for a particular
producer's chess equipment. Moreover, Chess Co benefits precisely as a
producer should from a trademark: it reaps profits from consumer goodwill both
as to quality of its goods and attractiveness of its advertising associated
with its unique personality in the marketplace. It is important to recognize
that the species term EN PASSANT subcategorizes only as to source. For
trademark genericness purposes, it is the source-denoting function of EN
PASSANT which causes us to call EN PASSANT a species instead of a genus. A
genus, in contrast to a species, is a product category including essentially
interchangeable4 goods made by unique producers. To the extent the goods
within the genus differ, their distinguishing characteristics are primarily
source-particular, E. g., price, quality, and advertising jingle. When, in the
consumers' minds, the IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 24
characteristics which distinguish a particular product are no longer primarily
source-particular, that product becomes its own genus, and its name becomes a
generic name. See Dixie Rose Nursery v. Coe, 76 U.S.App.D.C. 371, 372, 131
F.2d 446, 447 (D.C.Cir.), Cert. denied, 318 U.S. 782, 63 S.Ct. 856, 87 L.Ed.
1149 (1942). See also DuPont Cellophane Co. v. Waxed Products Co., 85 F.2d 75
(2d Cir.), Cert. denied, 299 U.S. 601, 57 S.Ct. 194, 81 L.Ed. 443 (1936), 304
U.S. 575, 58 S.Ct. 1047, 82 L.Ed. 1539 (1938); Bayer Co. v. United Drug Co.,
272 F. 505 (S.D.N.Y.1921).‛

34\. The US Supreme Court, in Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. -Vs-. Samara Brothers,
Inc. (99-150) 529 U.S. 205 (2000), considered differing nature of trademarks,
and the stage when a mark could be said to become ‚distinctive‛ as to be
afforded protection:

> ‚In evaluating the distinctiveness of a mark under §2 (and therefore, by
> analogy, under §43(a)), courts have held that a mark can be distinctive in
> one of two ways. First, a mark is inherently distinctive if ‚*its+ intrinsic
> nature serves to identify a particular source.‛ Ibid. In the context of word
> marks, courts have applied the now-classic test originally formulated by
> Judge Friendly, in which word marks that are ‚arbitrary‛ (‚Camel‛
> cigarettes), ‚fanciful‛ (‚Kodak‛ film), or ‚suggestive‛ (‚Tide‛ laundry
> detergent) are held to be inherently distinctive. See Abercrombie & Fitch
> Co. v. Hunting World, Inc., 537 F.2d 4, 10--11 (CA2 1976).

Second, a mark has acquired distinctiveness, even if it is not inherently
distinctive, if it has developed secondary meaning, which occurs when, ‚in the
minds of the public, the primary significance of a [mark] is to identify the
source of the product rather than the product itself.‛ Inwood Laboratories,
Inc. v. Ives Laboratories, Inc., 456 U.S. 844, 851, n. 11 (1982).*1‛ IA
NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 25

35\. In this case, the defendant's contention about genericness of the word
mark SCRABBLE is not entirely without any basis. Each time courts are
confronted with the issue of determining whether general words used as marks
are source specific, the nature of the product, the degree of resemblance it
bears with the word mark, the length of time used, are guiding, though not the
only factors to be considered. Though courts would be slow in conferring a
monopoly over common words, yet if a mark is shown to conjure up strong
associations with the product or services, there should be no hesitation in
affording protection. Midas Hygene is an authority on the point that there
cannot be a blanket policy against inferring that generic words cannot acquire
distinctiveness.

36\. The defendant raises the issue that under Section 36, the court should
refuse protection to the plaintiffs' word mark, since the game can be
described only as SCRABBLE. Prima facie, the argument appears powerful; the
defendant cites the authority of Coca-Cola Co. v. Pepsi-Cola Co. (1942), 2
D.L.R. 657 (P.C.) where Coke sued Pepsi for violating its trade-mark. The
courts ruled that ‚Cola‛ was simply a descriptive word identifying a type of
beverage, and that the ‚distinguishing feature‛ of the Coca-Cola trade-mark
was the word ‚Coca.‛ And because the distinguishing feature was not borrowed,
there was no likelihood that the average person would get those trade-marks
confused. This contention is somewhat supported by the decision reported as
J.P. Kapoor v. Micronix India, 1994 Suppl. (3) SCC 215, where the Supreme
Court observed that the word, ‚micro‛ being descriptive of micro technology
used for production IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 26 of electronic
items of daily use, could not be claimed exclusivity. Here, the word
‚scrabble‛ by the defendant's showing, based on the ‚Free Online Dictionary‛
is to:

"1. To scrape or grope about frenetically with the hands.

2\. To struggle by or as if by scraping or groping.

3\. To climb with scrambling, disorderly haste; clamber.

4\. To make hasty, disordered markings; scribble.

v.tr.

1\. To make or obtain by scraping together hastily.

2\. To scribble on or over.

n.

1\. The act or an instance of scrabbling.

2\. A scribble; a doodle.‛ (http://www.thefreedictionary.com/s crabble visited
on 15-9-08, at 23-17 hrs)

37\. The above facts show that 'SCRABBLE' is not per se descriptive of the
word game, unlike, say MONOPOLY or CROSSWORD, which are close to the genus. No
doubt, its extensive use and popularity has resulted in the word being used to
describe the game. But that is precisely what the plaintiffs contend, in
support of their argument about distinctiveness of the mark. In evaluation of
these competing claims, the court cannot be unmindful of the fact that
language is an evolving and organic system, which assimilates all kinds of
usage, customs and convenient descriptions of objects, processes, systems,
places and persons. The journey begun by a word with one meaning, might well
end up with an entirely different one, the original meaning obscured in course
of time. Etymological adventurism by the court should not lead to loss of
distinctiveness of a IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 27 mark which is
part of the popular lore. The plaintiffs have shown that SCRABBLE, according
to the Oxford Dictionary is a proprietary word game. They have also produced
other supporting evidence of its extensive use, as word mark for the game.
These, the registration which they undeniably hold, in respect of the mark,
their claim of sales in India to the extent of Rs. 13 crores, (of the game)
and their averment to having spent Rs. 51 lakhs in advertisement, prima facie
entitles it to protection; denial, of interim injunction at this stage would
result in irreparable injury, and the danger of genricness of the mark, with
consequent loss of distinctiveness.

38\. The defendants' mark, SCRABULOUS is too close, phonetically and
semantically to the plaintiffs' mark, to be an original inventive term. They
have not furnished any explanation, why they hit upon this term, for a word
game. Besides, the hyperlinks, which they provide in their websites, to the
plaintiffs' websites, evidences that SCRABBLE inspired them to coin their
mark. Indeed, the tenor and nature of their argument was that SCRABBLE is
generic, incapable of protection, and their variant SCRABULOUS thus cannot be
injuncted. Besides, the material produced by the plaintiffs, in the form of
users' comments, culled out from various 'blog' archived articles, as well as
from 'Facebook' and the defendants' ‚Scrabulous Wall‛ reveal that the users
played the game scrabulous, on the basis of web search for 'online scrabble'.
All these are prima facie proof of deceptive similarity and confusion
amounting to infringement.

IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008 Page 28

39\. The court is also of the opinion that unless appropriately injuncted,
from continuing to use SCRABULOUS or any other trademark deceptively or
confusingly similar to the plaintiffs' the defendants would continue these
acts of infringement, and divert internet traffic to their websites, causing
considerable commercial loss to the plaintiffs. The balance of convenience too
lies in favour of the plaintiffs for grant of temporary injunction, because,
the defendants have not shown how their use is bona fide, or how they would be
prejudiced. On the other hand, the denial of relief would cause harm and
injury to the plaintiffs.

40\. In view of the above discussion, the defendants, their partners, agents,
or any business associates, etc are hereby restrained from infringing the
plaintiffs' registered trademark in SCRABBLE; they shall not use the name
SCRABULOUS, or any other mark deceptively or confusingly similar to SCRABBLE,
in any manner, including by using it as part of domain name, or other use such
as hyperlinking, metatagging, advertisement, or any other such form of use,
till disposal of the suit. IA No. 2352/2008 is allowed in these terms. No
costs.

CS(OS) 344/2008 List on 10.02.2009 before the Joint Registrar for
admission/denial of documents.

    
    
    DATE: 17th September, 2008                           S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J
    
    
    IA NO.2352/2008 IN CS (OS) 344/2008                                 Page 29
     

