

Supreme Court of India

John Martin vs The State Of West Bengal on 21 January, 1975

Equivalent citations: 1975 AIR 775, 1975 SCR (3) 211

Author: P Bhagwati

Bench: Bhagwati, P.N.

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    JOHN MARTIN
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT21/01/1975
    
    BENCH:
    BHAGWATI, P.N.
    BENCH:
    BHAGWATI, P.N.
    MATHEW, KUTTYIL KURIEN
    UNTWALIA, N.L.
    
    CITATION:
     1975 AIR  775		  1975 SCR  (3) 211
     1975 SCC  (3) 836
     CITATOR INFO :
     F	    1976 SC 734	 (3)
     R	    1988 SC2090	 (12)
     R	    1989 SC1933	 (28)
     RF	    1990 SC 231	 (17)
     RF	    1990 SC 605	 (14)
     RF	    1991 SC 574	 (11)
     RF	    1991 SC1090	 (5)
    
    
    ACT:
    Maintenance  of Internal Security  Act,	 1971--S.8(1)--Scope
    of--Whether   a	  reasoned  order  should   be	 passed	  by
    Government--Whether power of detention conferred on District
    Magistrate is violative of Art. 19--Detention after dropping
    earlier criminal cases--Whether mala fide.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
    Pursuant  to  an  order	 of  detention	the  petitioner	 was
    arrested  under	 section 3(1) & (2) of	the  Maintenance  of
    Internal  Security Act, 1971 In a petition under article  32
    of the Constitution it was contended (1) that  consideration
    of  the petitioner's representation by the State  Government
    instead	 of  by	 an impartial tribunal	was  not  sufficient
    compliance  with  the  requirement  of	art.  22(5)  of	 the
    Constitution; (2) that the order passed by the State Govern-
    ment should have been a reasoned one; (3) that the power  of
    preventive  detention conferred on the	District  Magistrate
    under  s.3  of the Act was violative of art. r.	 19  of	 the
    Constitution and (4) that the order of detention was made in
    colorable exercise of power by the District Magistrate since
    no  charge sheets were filed against him in respect 'of	 the
    two incidents set out in the detention order and in fact the
    cases were dropped.
    Dismissing the petition,
    HELD (1) it is indisputable on a I am reading of s .   8(1)
    that the representation that may be made by the detenu is to
    the  appropriate  Government  and  it  is  the	 appropriate
    Government which has to	 consider the representation.  This,
    however, does not mean that the appropriate  Government	 can
    reject	the  representation of the detenu in  a	 casual	 and
    mechanical manner.  The appropriate Government must bring to
    bear on the consideration of the representation an  unbiased
    mind.	Art,  22, clause (5) provides inter  alia  that	 the
    authority  making  the order of detention shall	 afford	 the
    detenu	the earliest opportunity of making a  representation
    against the order of detention.	 It does not say as to which
    is  the authority to which the representation shall be	made
    or which authority shall consider it.  But s.8(1) lays	down
    in  the clearest terms that the opportunity which is  to  be
    afforded  to the detenu is to make a representation  against
    the  order  of detention to  the  appropriate.	 Government.
    [214F; 215B; 214E-F]
    JayanaraYan  Sukul v. State of West Bengal, [1970] 3  S.C.R.
    225 and Haradhan Saha v. State of West Bengal, W.P. 1999  of
    1973, decided on August 21, 1974, followed.
    (2)  In Haradhan Saha's case it was held that there need not
    be a speaking order.  'Mere is also no failure of justice by
    the order not being a speaking order.  All that is necessary
    is  that there should be a real and proper consideration  by
    the Government. [215F]
    Haradhan  Saha v. State of West Bengal, W.P. 1999  of  1973,
    decided on August 21, 1974. followed.
    Bhut  Nath  Mate, v. State of West Bengal, A.I.R.  1974	 SC.
    806, referred to and explained.
    (3)  It is not possible to say that the District  Magistrate
    is   not   an  officer	of  sufficiently  high	 status	  or
    responsibility	to  be entrusted with the  exercise  of	 the
    power  of preventive detention.	 The District Magistrate  is
    the  head  of  the administration of  the  district  and  is
    incharge  of maintenance not only of law and order but	also
    of public order as also smooth flow of supplies and services
    essential to the community within his district and no  fault
    can, therefore, be found with the legislature in  entrusting
    the exercise of the power of preventive detention to him  in
    cases where it is necessary to exercise such power for
    212
    the  purpose  of  maintenance of security of  the  State  or
    public	order  or  supplies and services  essential  to	 the
    community.  Moreover, exercise of such power by the District
    Magistrate  is made subject to the supervisory	control	 and
    check  of  the State Government by the	provision  that	 the
    order of detention must be approved by the State  Government
    within	a period of 12 days from the making of the order  of
    detention.   The  conferment of such power on  the  District
    Magistrate cannot be regarded as an unreasonable restriction
    on the right of personal liberty of a citizen under Art. 19.
    [216D-G]
    (4)  The order of detention made by the District  Magistrate
    does  not  suffer from the vice of mala fides  or  colorable
    exercise  of  power.   It is now  well	settled	 by  several
    decisions  of this Court that the mere fact that a  criminal
    case  had  to  be dropped against  the	detenu	because	 the
    investigating agency could not	   procure    evidence	  to
    sustain his conviction would not be sufficient to hold	that
    the detention order made against him was mala fide. [218F-G]
    B. C.	  Biswas v. State of West Bengal. [1972] S.C.C. 666,
    followed.
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition No. 467 of 1974. Petition under Art. 32
of the Constitution of India. R. K. Jain, for the petitioner.

G. S. Chatteriee, for the respondent.

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BRAGWATI, J.-The petitioner in this
petition seeks a writ of habeas corpus challenging the validity of his
detention under an order made by the District Magistrate, Burdwan under sub-
section (1) read with sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Maintenance of
Internal Security Act, 1971. The order of detention was made on 10th July,
1973 on the ground that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view
to preventing him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance Of
supplies and services essential to the community. Pursuant to the order of
detention the petitioner was arrested on 24th August, 1973 and immediately on
his arrest he was served with the grounds of detention. There were two
incidents referred to in the grounds of detention as forming the basis for
arriving at the subjective satisfaction on the part of the District Magistrate
and they were as follows "1. On 23.1.73 at about 03.00 hrs. you along with
your associates (i) Michael Antony, son of M. Danial @ Ram Murti of
Purniatetao, P. S. Hirapur, District Burdwan (ii) Bhiren Antony, son of
Michael Pitter of Purniateloo, P. S. Hirapur, Distt. Burdwan, and others
committed theft in respect of two spans of electric  line, 240 feet in length
from pole No. 7 to 9 in Street No. 23 of Chittaranjan township, P. S.
Chittaranian, Dist. Burdwan and thereby clamped down darkness over the entire
area causing inconvenience and hardship to the people in general living in
that area, which is prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services
essential to the community.

2\. On 22-2-73 at about 04.00 hrs. you along with your associates (i) Michael
Antony, son of M. Danial @ Ram Murti of Pumlatalao, P. S. Hirapur, Dist.
Burdwan, (ii) Dhiran Antony, son of Michael Pitter of Purniatalao, P.S.
Hirapur, Distt. Burdwan and others committed.

213

thefts in respect conductors, 200 feet long from pole Nos. 1 and 2 at Cross
Road No. 3, Sunset avenue, Chittaranjan township, P. S. Chittaranjan, Dist.
Burdwan and thereby clamped down darkness in the entire area causing much
inconvenience and hardship to the people in general living in that area ,
which is prejudicial to, the maintenance of supplies and services essential to
the community." Meanwhile the District Magistrate reported the fact of the
making of the order of detention to the State Government and the order of
detention was then approved by the State Government by an order dated 21st
July, 1973. The State Government also reported the fact of approval of the
order of detention to the Central Government within seven days from the date
of the order of approval. The, State Govern- ment thereafter placed the case
of the petitioner before the Advisory Board on 20th September, 1973. On 25th
September, 1973 the representation of the petitioner against the order of
detention was received by the State Government and after due and proper
consideration the State Government rejected it by an order dated 29th
September, 1973. The representation was then forwarded by the State Government
to the Advisory Board and the Advisory Board, after considering the D case of
the petitioner and taking into account the representation received from him,
made a report to the State Government on 23rd October, 1973 stating that in
its opinion there was sufficient cause for the detention of the petitioner.
The State Government thereafter confirmed the order of detention by an order
dated 1st November, 1973. There were several contentions urged by Mr. R. K.
Jain, learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner amicus curiaes
against the validity of the order of detention and we shall deal with them in
the order in which they were urged. But before we do so, we may point out that
there was one contention sought to be raised by Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of
the petitioner which we did not allow to be urged. That was that the power
conferred by section 13 of the Act to detain a person for a period of twelve
months or until the cessation of the emergency whichever is longer was
violative of article 19 of the Constitution and, in any event, the continuance
of the emergency was mala fide and the period of twelve months having elapsed
from the date of detention, the petitioner was entitled to be set free. We did
not permit Mr. R. K. Jain to raise this contention on behalf of the petitioner
inasmuch as it involved a question as to the validity of a provision of the
Act and the- legality of the continuance of the emergency and this question
could not be properly determined unless there was an adequate plea to that
effect and the Central Government had an opportunity of meeting such plea by
filing an affidavit and notice was also given to the Attorney General to
enable him to make his submission on this question. We would, therefore.
confine ourselves only to the other contentions raised by Mr. R. K. Jain on
behalf of the peti- tioner.

The first contention urged by Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of the petitioner was
that the representation of the petitioner ought to leave been considered by an
impartial tribunal constituted by the State Government and it was not
sufficient compliance with the requirement of 214 art. 22, clause (5) that it
should have been considered only by the State Government. This contention was
sought to be supported by reference to certain observations of Fazl Ali, J.,
and Mahajan, J., in A. K. Gopalan v. State of Madras.(1) Now it is true that
Fazal Ali, J. observed in this case that "the right to make a representation
which has been granted under the Constitution must carry with it the right to
the representation being properly considered by an impartial person or
persons-the constitution of an Advisory Board for the purpose of reporting
whether a person should be detained for more than three months or not is a
very different thing from constituting a board for the purpose of reporting
whether a man should be detained for a single day", and Mahajan, J., also said
: "the right has been conferred to enable a detained person to prove his
innocence and to secure justice, and no justice can be said to be secured
unless the representation is considered by some impartial person-it follows
that no iustice can be held secured to him unless an unbiased person considers
the merits of his representation and gives his opinion on the guilt or
innocence of the person detained. In my opinion the right cannot be defeated
or made elusive by, presuming that the detaining authority itself will
consider the representation with an unbiased mind and will render justice.
That would in a way make the prosecutor a judge in D the case and such a
procedure is repugnant to all notions of justice". But we do not think that
these observations made by two out of six learned Judges can be regarded as
laying down the law on the point. Since A. K. Gopalan's case(1) there has been
a long cotena of decisions of ,,his Court where the view has consistently been
taken that the representation of the detenu must be considered by file State
Government. Article 22, clause (5) provides inter alia that the authority
making the order of detention shall afford the detenu the earliest opportunity
of making a representation against the order of detention. It does not say as
to which is the authority to which the representation shall be made or which
authority shall consider it. But section 8, sub-section (1) of the Act lays
down in the clearest. terms which admit of no doubt that the opportunity which
is to be afforded to the detenu is to make a representation against the order
of detention to the appropriate Government. Therefore, it is indisputable on a
plain reading- of section 8, sub-section (1) that the representation that may
be read by the detenu is to the appropriate Government and it is the
appropriate Government which has to consider the representation. This Court,
sneaking through Ray, J., (as he then was), affirmed this position in
pavanarayain Sukul v. State of West Bengal(2) and pointed out inter alia that
"the appropriate Government is to exercise its opinion Ind judgment on the
representation before sending the case along with the detenu's representation
to the Advisory Board". So also in Haradhan Saha v. State of West Bengal(3)
this Court, speaking through Ray, C.J., observed that "there is an obligation
on the State to consider the representation- section 8 of the Act which casts
an obligation on the State to consider the representation affords the (1)
[1950] S.C.R. 88.

(2) [1970] 3 S.C.R. 225.

(3) W.P. 1999 of 1973. dec. on Aug. 21, 1974.

215

detenu all the rights which are guaranteed by Article 22(5). The Government
considers the representation to ascertain essentially whether the order is in
conformity with the power under the law the order of the Government rejecting
the representation of the detenu must be after proper consideration". It may
be pointed out that both the decisions in Jayanarayan Sukul's case and
Haraclhan Saha's case (supra) were decisions rendered by a Bench of five
Judges. We must, therefore, hold that under section 8(1) of the Act, it is the
appropriate Government that is required to consider the representation of the
detenu. This, however, does not mean that the appropriate Government can
reject the representation of the detenu in a casual or mechanical manner. The
appropriate Government must bring to bear on the consideration of the
representation an unbiased mind. There should be, as pointed out by this Court
in Haradhan Sah's case, (supra) "a real and proper consideration" of the
representation by the appropriate Government. We cannot over-emphasise the
need for the clo- sest and most zealous scrutiny of the representation for the
purpose of deciding whether the detention of the petitioner is justified.

It was then contended on behalf of the petitioner that the order passed by the
State Government rejecting the representation of the detenu should be a
reasoned order and since in the present case the order of the State Government
did not disclose any reasons for rejecting the representation of the
petitioner, the detention of the petitioner was invalid, The argument of the
petitioner was that unless reasons were given by the State Government, how
could it be ensured that there was real and proper consideration of the
representation of the detenu. This contention, attractive though it may seem,
-s, in our opinion, not well founded. It stands concluded by the decision in
Haradhan Saha's case (supra) to which we have just referred. It was pointed
out in that case by Ray, C.J., speaking on behalf of the Court : "There need
not be a speaking order. There is also no failure of justice by the order not
being a speaking order, All that is necessary is that there should be a real
and proper consideration by the Government". These observations must give a
quietus to the contention that the order of the State Government must be a
reasoned order. It is true that in Bhut Nath Mate v. State of West Renpal(1)
Krishna Iyer. J., speaking on behalf of a Division Bench of this Court
observed that : "It must be self-evident from the order that the substance of
the charge and the essential answers in the representation have been
impartially considered", but if we read the judgment as a whole there can be
no doubt that these observations were not meant to lay down a legal,
requirement that the order of the State Government must be a speaking order
but they were intended to convey an admonition to the State Government that it
would be eminently desirable if the order disclosed that "the substance of the
charge Ind the essential answers in the representation" had been impartially
considered. The learned Judge in fact started the discussion of this point by
stating : "We are not persuaded that a speaking order should be passed by the
Government or by the Advisory Board while approving or advising contain of
Detention". In any event, the decision in Haradlian Saha's case (supra) (1)
A.T.R. 1974 S.C. 806.

216

being a decision rendered by a Bench of five Judges must prevail with us. We,
therefore, reject the present contention of the petitioner.

The next contention urged on behalf of the petitioner was that it was obvious
from the order of detention that the District Magistrate had made the order of
detention in a mechanical fashion without applying his mind to the facts of
the case relating to the petitioner. We do not think there is any substance in
this contention. The order of detention is in proper form and it does not
betray any lack of application of mind on the part of the District Magistrate.
Then Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of the petitioner contended that the power of
preventive detention conferred on the District Magistrate under section 3 of
the Act was violative of Art. 19 of the Constitution inasmuch as the District
Magistrate was hardly an officer of such high and responsible status as could
be entrusted with the exercise of such drastic power subversive of personal
liberty. This contention is also futile aid must"be rejected. It is not
possible to say that the District Magistrate is not an officer of sufficiently
high status or responsibility to be untrusted with the exercise of the power
of preventive detention. The District Magistrate is the head of the
administration of the District and is in charge of maintenance not only of law
and order but also of public order as also smooth flow of supplies and
services essential to the community within his district and no fault can,
therefore, be found with the legislature for entrusting the exercise of the
power of preventive detention to him in cases where it is necessary to
exercise such power for the purpose of maintenance of the security of the
State or public order or supplies and services essential to the community.
Moreover, the exercise of such power by the District Magistrate is made
subject to the supervisory control and check of the State Government by the
provision that the order of detention must be approved by the State Government
within a period of twelve days from the making, of the order of detention. The
conferment of such power on the District Magistrate cannot in the
circumstances be regarded as an unreasonable restriction on the right of
personal liberty of a citizen under Art. 19. The next contention urged on
behalf of the petitioner was that the order of detention was invalid since the
District Magistrate had not stated in the order that the petitioner would be
likely to indulge in prejudicial acts in future and hence it was necessary to
detain him. A mere reading of the order of detention is sufficient to repel
this contention. The order of detention starts with the rectal that the Dis-
trict Magistrate was satisfied with respect to the petitioner that "with a
view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the
maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community" it was
necessary to detain him. This recital clearly shows that the District
Magistrate was satisfied that the petitioner would be likely to act in a
manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to
the community and that was the reason why the District Magistrate thought it
necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting
in such manner. The satisfaction of the (4) A. 1. R. 1974 S. C. 806.

217

District Magistrate as regards the necessity for detention of the petitioner
was grounded on a reasonable prognosis of the future behavior of the
petitioner based on his past conduct, namely, participation in the two
incidents set out in, the grounds of detention, judged in the light of the
surrounding circumstances. The District Magistrate in fact stated in paragraph
4 of the affidavit in reply filed by him that he was satisfied that "if the
detenu-petitioner was not detained under the said Act he was likely to act
further in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services
essential to the community. The acts committed by detenu showed a course, of
conduct which satisfied me that it was necessary to make the said order of
detention". This contention must also, therefore, fail.

Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of the petitioner thenurged that there was nothing,
to show that the Central 'Government had applied its mind to the case of the
petitioner on receipt of thepapers from the State Government. But this
contention is also futile.It is clear from the affidavit in reply filed by
the, District Magistratethat the fact of the approval of the order of
detention by the State Government was communicated to the Central Government
along with the grounds of detention and such other particulars as in the
opinion of the State Government had a bearing on the necessity or an order of
detention. Plainly, this was in compliance with the requirement of section 3,
sub-section (4). Section 14, sub-section (1) undoubtedly conferred power on
the Central Government to revoke or modify an order of detention but merely
because the Central Government did not do so, it does not mean that the
Central Government did not apply its mind to the case of the petitioner
forwarded to it by the State Government. There is nothing to show that the
Central Government did not consider the case of the petitioner or apply its
mind to the grounds of detention and other particulars received by it from the
State Government. The Central Government not being a party to the petition, it
could not have an opportunity of stating whether it applied its mind to. the
case of the petitioner for the purpose of deciding whether or not to intervene
by revoking or modifying the order of detention.

It was also urged by Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of the petitioner that there was
some other material before the District Magistrate besides the two incidents
referred to in the grounds of detention and since this material was not
disclosed to the petitioner, he was deprived of an opportunity of making
effective representation and that vitiated the order of detention. Now, Mr. G.
S. Chatterjee, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, produced
before us the history sheet of the petitioner which was placed before the
District Magistrate and which, we can legimately assume, must have weighed
with the District Magistrate in inducing the requisite subjective
satisfaction. This history-sheet showed that besides the two incidents set out
in the ,grounds of detention, there was no other material which could have
possibly weighed with the District Magistrate in reaching his subjective
satisfaction. Of course there was material of a general nature about the
antecedents of the petitioner but that could not possibly have had any impact
in the process of reaching subjective satisfaction 218 and we would therefore,
be justified in accepting the statement of the District Magistrate in his
affidavit in reply that the two incidents set out in the grounds of detention
were the only material on which he based his subjective satisfaction for the
purpose of making the order of detention. We accordingly reject this
contention. The last contention urged by Mr. R. K. Jain on behalf of the
petitioner was that the order of detention was made by the District Magistrate
in colorable exercise of power, since no charge-sheets were filed against the
petitioner in the court of the magistrate in respect of the two incidents set
out in the grounds of detention and the criminal cases registered with
Chitaranjan Police Station were dropped by filing final Report as true,
briefly described as F.R.T. To understand this contention it is necessary to
state a few facts which may be gathered from the affidavit in reply filed by
the District Magistrate. The first incident took place on 23rd January, 1973
and in respect of it, a criminal case was registered with Chittaranjan Police
Station on 12th February, 1973. Similarly, in respect of the second incident,
which took place on 22nd February, 1973, a criminal case was registered with
Chittaranjan Police Station on 2nd March, 1973. Both these criminal cases were
filed in the court of Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Asansole. The name
of the petitioner was not mentioned in the First Information Report in either
of these two cases but his participation in the two incidents was revealed in
the course, of investigation. The petitioner was arrested on 1st March, 1973
in connection with some other case and he was shown as arrested in connection
with these two cases since they were pending against him. The petitioner was
thereafter released on bail though we do not know the precise date on which
such release was effected. It appears that no charge-sheet was filed in both
these cases and these cases were dropped by filing F.R.T. The affidavit in
reply does not state as to what was the reason for which F.R.T. was filed and
these cases were dropped but taking the case of the State at its worst, we may
presume that this was done as the police could not procure evidence to sustain
the conviction of the petitioner. The petitioner was discharged from these
cases on 6th June, 1973 and from the other case also he was discharged on 14th
June, 1973. The order of detention was thereafter made on 10th July, 1973 but
the petitioner was absconding and he could not, therefore, be arrested until
24th August, 1973. On these facts it is difficult to see how it can be
contended that the order of detention was passed by the District Magistrate
mala fide or in colorable exercise of his power. It is now well settled by
several decisions of this Court that the mere fact that a criminal case had to
be dropped against a detenu because the investigation could not procure
evidence to sustain his conviction would not be sufficient to bold that the
detention order made against him is mala fide. We may refer only to one of
these decisions, namely, B. C. Biswas v. State of West Bengal.(1) There, the
grounds on which the order of detention was based referred to two incidents in
which the detenu and his associates were alleged to have participated. Reports
were lodged with the police against the detenu in respect of the two incidents
mentioned in the grounds of detention. The investigating (1)[1972] S. C. C.
666.

219

officer, after investigating the cases relating to those incidents submitted a
report that "nothing could be had against the petitioner". detenu was,
therefore, discharged in those cases. the argument urged on behalf of the
detenu was that in the circumstances the order of detention should be held to
be mala fide. This argument was rejected by a Division Bench in the following
words :

> "In our opinion. even if it may be assumed that cases were registered
> against the petitioner by the police in respect of the two incidents
> mentioned in the grounds of detention and the, police as a result of the
> investigation could not procure evidence to sustain the conviction of the
> petitioner, that fact would not be sufficient to hold that the detention
> order made against the petitioner was mala fide. The matter is indeed
> concluded by a decision of this Court in the case of Sahib Singh Dugal v.
> Union of India.(1) The petitioner in that case was arrested on December 6,
> 1964, for offence under the Official Secrets Act. On March 11, 1965, the
> Investigating Officer made a report to the Court to the effect that the
> petitioner and others involved in that criminal case might be discharged as
> sufficient evidence for their conviction could not be discovered during the
> investigation. The Magistrate consequently discharged the petitioner and
> others. Immediately after the petitioner came out of the Jail, he was served
> with an order for his 'detention under Rule 30(1)(b) of the Defence of India
> Rules. One of the contentions which was advanced on behalf of the petitioner
> in Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution was that the detention
> order was mala fide inasmuch as it had been made after the authorities had
> decided to drop criminal proceedings because of inability to get sufficient
> evidence to secure conviction. This contention was repelted by this Court
> and it was held that the above circumstance was not sufficient to lead to
> the inference that. the action of the detaining authority was mala fide.
> This Court observed :

"We cannot infer merely from the fact that the authorities decided to drop the
case under the Official Secrets Act and thereafter to order the detention of
the petitioners under the Rules that the order of detention was mala fide."'
In view of the above, we hold that the order for the detention of the
petitioner has not been shown to be mala fide."

We must for the same reasons hold that the order of detention made by the
District Magistrate in the present case does not suffer from the vice of mala
fide or colourable exercise of power.

These were the only contentions urged on behalf of the petitioner and since
there is no substance in them, the petition fails and the rule is discharged.
P.B.R.

Petition dismissed..

(1) [1966] 1 S. C. R. 313.

220

