

Bombay High Court

Gangwani And Co. vs Saraswati Wd/O Maniram Banewar on 12 April, 2001

Equivalent citations: 2001 ACJ 1295, 2001 (90) FLR 1100, (2001) IILLJ 1022 Bom

Author: D Sinha

Bench: B Singh, D Sinha, S Gundewar

JUDGMENT D.D. Sinha, J.

1\. The Division Bench of this Court vide order dated September 28, 2000
passed in Letters Patent Appeals Nos. 66/1993, 3/1996 and 11/2000 made a
reference to the larger Bench in view of conflicting judgments of the earlier
Division Benches of this Court in the case of Smt. Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and
Anr. v. Mackinon Machinazie & Co. Pvt. Ltd., and Dhondubai Murlidhar Reddi v.
Proprietor Jankidas Khandsari Sugar Factory and others, 1991 Mh.LJ. 624. The
question involved is -

"Whether Commissioner under the Workmen's Compensation Act is a Court and his
order a judgment and order passed by the single Judge of the High Court under
Section 30 of the Workmen's Compensation Act is a judgment within the meaning
of Clause 15 of the Letters Patent (Bombay)?"

Since common question of law is involved, the reference is disposed of by
common judgment.

2\. The contentions raised by Shri Jaiswal, learned Counsel for the appellant,
in nutshell are that an order made by the learned single Judge of this Court
in an appeal under Section 30 of the Workmen's Compensation Act is a judgment
and the Commissioner exercising power under Section 20 of the Act discharges
his duties and functions as a Civil Court is expected to discharge its
functions and, therefore, he acts as a Court and not as an Arbitrator, It is
further contended that adjudication done by the Commissioner under Section 19
of the Act is analogous and similar to that of the Court in view of the
following factors/circumstances:

The disputes need to be settled by the Commissioner are disputes in regard to
liability of employer to pay compensation or as to amount or duration of
compensation between him and his workman or his legal representative and
Rules, which are framed and procedure contemplated by such Rules require that
aggrieved employee needs to file written application before the Commissioner
and other side has to file written statement. The Commissioner thereafter is
required to frame and record issues on which decision of the case depends and
has to record documentary and oral evidence, which may be adduced by the
parties to the dispute. The Commissioner has to maintain a brief record of the
proceedings and is required to pronounce his "judgment" recording findings on
each issue and reasons therefor. It is further contended that under Section 23
of the Act, the Commissioner has all the powers under the Code of Civil
Procedure for the purpose of taking evidence on oath, enforcing attendance of
the witnesses and compelling production of documents and material objects,
examining witnesses on oath and coming to the conclusion on the basis of
evidence adduced and arguments advanced. Under Section 24, parties can be
represented before the Commissioner by the legal representatives. Under
Section 27, Commissioner can also submit any question of law for decision of
the High Court. The Commissioner can recover as arrears of land revenue any
amount ordered to be paid by him, which demonstrates that judicial
pronouncement made by the Commissioner is almost in the form of decree
pronounced by a Court of law. It is further contended that Section 19(2) of
the Act ousts jurisdiction of the Civil Court to decide any question required
to be decided by the Commissioner under the Act. The learned Counsel contended
that proceedings before the Commissioner are almost analogous as well as in
close proximity to proceedings in the Civil Court. Hence, adjudication done by
the Commissioner and recording of his findings on each of the issues and
reasons therefor is nothing but a judgment and not an award. In order to
substantiate his contentions, reliance is placed by the learned Counsel on the
judgment in the case of Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha v. The Sitamarhi Central
Co-operative Bank Ltd. and Anr., .

3\. It is contended that the Apex Court in the above referred case of Thakur
Jugal Kishore Sinha v. Sitamarhi Central Cooperative Bank Ltd. and Anr.,
(supra) observed that quasi judicial Tribunal is charged with a duty to decide
disputes in a judicial manner and declare the rights of parties in a
definitive judgment. It is further submitted that the above referred test, if
applied to the functions discharged by the Commissioner under the Workmen's
Compensation Act, would show that the adjudication done by the Commissioner
under Section 19 of the Act and proceedings before the Commissioner are quite
distinct from adjudication by the Tribunal or Arbitrator and are almost
analogous to the functions of the Court. Therefore, the Commissioner appointed
under Section 20 of the Workmen's Compensation Act is a Court and his decision
is a judgment and not an. award.

4\. Shri Jaiswal, learned Counsel further submitted that in the case of Smt.
Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v. Mackinon Machinazie and Co. Pvt. Ltd.,
(supra) the Division Bench of this Court basically considered the ratio laid
down by Apex Court in Brajanandan Sinha v. Jyoti Naraen, , Virindar Kumar
Satyawadi v. State of Punjab, and Thakur Jugal Kishore v. Sitamarhi Central
Co-operative Bank, (supra) and in the light considered various provisions of
the Workmen's Compensation Act and Rules framed thereunder. It is submitted
that Division Bench after due deliberations in this regard, rightly held in
para (12) that Commissioner under the Workmen's Compensation Act is a "Court"
and his decision is a judgment and that order passed by the High Court in
appeal under Section 30 is a judgment within the meaning of Letters Patent.

5\. It is submitted that power exercised and function discharged by the
Registrar under the provisions of Bihar and Orissa Co-operative Societies Act
are similar to those of the Commissioner under Section 20 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act and, therefore, Commissioner is a Court and decision given by
him is a judgment. In order to substantiate the contentions, reliance is
placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Thakur Jugal Kishore
v. Sitamarhi Central Co-operative Bank Limited and Ors. (supra).

6\. It is submitted by the learned Counsel for the appellant that in the case
of Shantidevi and Ors. v. General Manager, Haryana Roadways, , the Full Bench
has held that though under the relevant Rules, words "judgment" and "award"
have been used separately in Rules 21 and 19 of the Motor Accident Claims
Rules, still the proceedings before the Claims Tribunal are not in the nature
of arbitration proceedings and Claims Tribunal while disposing of the claims
acts as a Court. It is further observed that an appeal lies under Clause 10 of
the Letters Patent against the decision of the learned single Judge of High
Court in appeal filed against the Award of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal
given under Section 110-D of the Act.

7\. Shri Jaiswal further contended that in the case of Mahildevi v.
Chandrabhan and Ors., , Full Bench of Delhi High Court has held that unless a
statute itself bars a second appeal in the High Court or makes the judgment of
a single Judge of High Court final (as in the case of Section 43 of Delhi Rent
Control Act), the Letters Patent Appeal shall lie from the judgment of the
single Judge of the High Court to Division Bench of the High Court. Section 30
of the Workmen's Compensation Act provides appeal to the High Court from the
order of the Commissioner and does not specifically bar second appeal and,
therefore, Letters Patent Appeal against the order of the single Judge is
maintainable.

8\. The learned Counsel for the respondents Shri Gilda and Shri Kothari
canvassed that the Commissioner appointed under the Workmen's Compensation Act
is a Tribunal and not a Court. The provisions of Section 19(2) of the Act
clearly bar jurisdiction of the Civil Court, which demonstrates that the
Commissioner appointed under the Act is not a Court. Similarly Section 3(5) of
the Act also makes it further clear that the Commissioner is not a Civil
Court. Section 23 of the Act does not confer on Commissioner all the powers of
the Civil Court and confers only those powers, which are specified in the
Rules framed under the Act. It is further contended that though there is an
appeal to the High Court provided against certain orders of the Commissioner
under Section 30 of the Act, that by itself does not take away efficacy of
Sections 3(5) and 19(2), of the Act and the Commissioner, therefore, cannot be
termed as a Court.

9\. It is further contended by Shri Gilda that in the case of Yeshwantrao v.
Sampat, , the Full Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has held that the
Commissioner appointed under the Workmen's Compensation Act is not a Court
within the meaning of Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure and an order
passed by him under Section 19 of the Workmen's Compensation Act is not
revisable by the High Court. The learned Counsel contended that this is a
direct judgment on the issue in question wherein the Full Bench has considered
the ratio laid down by the Apex Court in Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha v.
Sitamarhi Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. and Anr., (supra) in the light of
ratio laid down by the larger Bench of the Apex Court in Associated Cement
Companies Ltd. v. P.N. Sharma, and Engineering Mazdoor Sabha and Anr. v. Hind
Cycles Ltd., . It is further contended that the Full Bench of Madhya Pradesh
High Court in Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) case also considered the judgment
of the Bombay High Court in the case of Smt. Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v.
Mackinon Machinazie & Co. Pvt. Ltd., (supra) and respectfully differed from
the view taken by the Bombay High Court in the above referred case that the
Commissioner is a Court within the meaning of Section 115 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. It is further contended that in the case of Smt. Rajiyabi, Division
Bench of the Bombay High Court primarily relied on the ratio laid down by the
Apex Court in Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha v. Sitamarhi Central Co-operative
Bank Ltd. and Anr., as well as two of the Apex Court in Brajanandan Sinha v.
Jyoti Naraen, (supra) and Virindar Kumar Satyawadi v. State of Punjab,
(supra). It is argued that the Full Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court in
Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) considered the ratio laid down by the Apex
Court in Thakur Jugal Kishor 's case in the light of decision rendered by the
larger Bench of the Apex Court in Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v. P.N.
Sharma, (supra) and Engineering Mazdoor Sabha and Anr. v. Hind Cycles Ltd.,
(supra) and held that the Commissioner is not a 'Court' within the meaning of
Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure and order passed by him under
Section 19 of the Workmen's Compensation Act is not revisable by the High
Court.

10\. Shri Gilda further argued that the Division Bench of Rajasthan High Court
in the case of Bashir Khan v. Ranger Social Wanike and Ors., 1966 ACJ 115
after considering the ratio laid down in Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v.
P.N. Sharma, (supra) and Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) held that the
Commissioner acting under the provisions of Workmen's Compensation Act is not
a Court subordinate High Court for the purpose of Section 115 of the Code of
Civil Procedure.

11\. Shri Gilda further submitted that in the case of Dhondubai Murlidhar
Reddy v. Proprietor Jankidas Khandsari Sugar Factory and Ors., (supra) the
Division Bench of this Court after considering the ratio laid down by Nagpur
High Court in Secretary of State v. Mt. Geeta w/o Imam Musalman, AIR 1939
Nagpur 122 as well as ratio laid by Apex Court in the case of South Asia
Industries Pvt. v. S.B. Samp Singh and Ors., has held that the Commissioner is
not a Civil Court as envisaged under Clause 16 of the Letters Patent and
judgment delivered by the learned single Judge in appeal under Section 30 of
the Workmen's Compensation Act could not be pursuant to Section 108 of the Act
of 1915 as envisaged under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent and further held
that the Letters Patent Appeal against such decision would not lie.

12\. We have given our anxious thought to the various contentions raised by
the respective learned Counsel as well as ratio laid down by the various
judicial pronouncements in the judgments cited hereinabove. The following
legal position emerges:

A judicial decision pre-supposes an: existing dispute between two or more
parties and presentation of the case by the parties to the dispute, if dispute
between them is a question of fact, ascertainment of fact by means of evidence
adduced by the parties to the dispute. If the dispute between them is a
question of law, submission of legal arguments by parties and decision, which
disposes of the whole matter by finding upon facts in dispute including
disputed question of law. All these are the functions of the Court and
Authority created under special statute for settlement of dispute as per
provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act also discharges similar
functions. The procedure is also more or less similar except that the
procedure of the Court is regularly prescribed and procedure in respect of
Tribunal/Authority is prescribed as per provisions of the special
legislation/statute and rules framed thereunder. However, the approach adopted
by the Tribunal is also same as adopted by the Court.

13\. In the backdrop of these circumstances, it is necessary to consider the
intention of the Legislature in creating such separate/special forum by
enacting a special statute for settlement of disputes under the scheme of the
statute. The regular Civil Courts undoubtedly are vested with the plenary
powers to settle all kinds of civil disputes and are under the normal
hierarchy of the Civil Court. If that is so, it is necessary to consider as to
why Legislature thought it fit to create alternate forum by enacting a special
Act or statute for settlement of disputes and ousting the jurisdiction of the
Civil Court. In order to get answers to these questions, we need to consider
the aims and objects of the special legislation and the purpose required to be
achieved by such legislation.

14\. The Workmen's Compensation Act (special legislation) was enacted with the
object to provide a separate, speedy and cheap forum to the workman or his
dependents for claiming compensation and for that purpose, wide powers are
given to the Commissioner, who is entrusted with the adjudication of the
claim. The Act undoubtedly was enacted with the object of achieving all ideals
of social security of the workmen employed in the industry and protecting the
hardships of the employees arising from accidents. The Act creates a special
type of liability on employer to pay compensation at the fixed rate to his
employee, who is rendered incapable of working due to an accident arising out
of and in the course of employment. The purpose of the Act is to compensate
actual loss, which the relatives have suffered. In fact, the Act is a piece of
social security legislation and if any provision of the Act is capable of two
interpretations, it ought to be construed liberally in favour of employee in
order to achieve the objective of the Act, for whose benefit, the Legislature
in its wisdom has enacted this special legislation.

15\. The settlement of disputes before the regular Civil Court is a long drawn
process particularly because of hierarchy of the Courts provided under the
Code of Civil Procedure. Strict compliance of the procedure contemplated by
the Code is required to be followed by the Court. The order or decision
whether final or interlocutory of the Court is always subject to revision or
appeal and, therefore, settlement of dispute in the regular Civil Court takes
unreasonably long time. The workman though is entitled to institute his claim
for damages in respect of injuries against employer or other person in the
Civil Court by filing suit, settlement of his claim undoubtedly would take
number of years and process is also expensive. The Legislature, therefore, in
its wisdom thought it fit to provide a separate, speedy and cheap forum to the
workman or his dependents for settlement of compensation and, therefore,
created a special legislation, i.e. Workmen's Compensation Act. The intention
of the Legislature in providing such alternate forum is undoubtedly with a
specific purpose to avoid the lengthy procedure of the Civil Courts and to
exclude them from normal hierarchy of the Civil Courts in order to provide
speedy, cheap and effective alternate remedy and to give finality to the
decision rendered by such alternate forum, which should not be subjected to
revision or appeal, provided under Code of Civil Procedure.

16\. It is, however, true that these alternate fora provided by special
statutes are vested with the powers and functions, which are quite similar to
those of the Court and are also empowered to give binding decisions. However,
these aspects should not be confused to hold that the Legislature intended to
create alternate fora as Courts, which fall within the ambit of normal
hierarchy of Courts merely because they are also required to act fairly and
judiciously. This, in our opinion, will frustrate the very object of such
special statute. Some of the relevant provisions of the Workmen's Compensation
Act render active assistance to ascertain intention of the Legislation to
treat the Commissioner appointed under Section 20 of the Act, a forum separate
and distinct from the Court.

17\. Sub-section (2) of Section 19 of the Workmen's Compensation Act
contemplates that no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or
deal with any question, which is by or under this Act required to be settled,
decided or dealt with by the Commissioner or to enforce any liability incurred
under this Act. The cognizance by the Civil Court is barred in regard to
matters, which are expressly enumerated in Sub-section (2) of Section 19 of
the Act. They are settling, deciding or dealing with any question and
enforcing any liability incurred under this Act. The scope and scheme of this
provision is not to take away from the Civil Court its jurisdiction to give
relief in tort, but to provide alternate optional remedy for certain classes
of persons in certain special circumstances and for certain happenings.

There are two requirements, which need to be satisfied by the Commissioner to
act under this Act:

(1) The party must forego its right under the common law of the land, (2) The
facts giving jurisdiction to the Commissioner must also exist side by side.

When these two conditions are strictly fulfilled, the Act seeks to bar
jurisdiction of the Civil Court on the aspects, namely, settling, deciding and
dealing with any question involved in the proceeding. Under the scheme of the
Workmen's Compensation Act, the bar created rests on doctrine of estoppel and
acquiescence in the same way that a person submits to the jurisdiction of the
Arbitrator. The word "Commissioner" in the English statute is "Arbitrator". In
view of the above referred facts and circumstances, it is undoubtedly clear
that appointment of the Commissioner under Section 20 of the Act is with a
view to provide a separate and distinct forum other than the Civil Court for
the purpose enumerated in Section 19 of the Act and at the same time,
jurisdiction of the Civil Court to adjudicate upon and determine liability in
tort is not barred. The Legislature, therefore, has created this alternate
forum for a specific purpose and in order to achieve definite objective
totally separate from the regular Civil Court. Merely because certain
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure are made applicable to the procedure
required to be followed by the Commissioner and thereby clothe him with the
trapping of a Court, it does not bring the functions discharged by the
Commissioner within the ambit of "Court" and decision rendered by him cannot
be a judgment as envisaged in the Letters Patent.

18\. Similarly Sub-section (5) of Section 3 of the Act puts a bar on making
two separate claims by the workmen, such as one before the Commissioner under
the Act and another in the Civil Court. If a workman institutes a suit for
damages in the Civil Court, he will not be entitled to claim compensation
under the Act. In the Civil Court, a workman can claim compensation beyond the
amount, which has been specified under the Act by proving, amongst other
things, the extent of not only loss of his earning capacity, but also actual
and probable loss of his earnings. However, under the Act, amount of
compensation that he can claim, even when he proves hundred per cent loss of
his earning capacity is restricted to what is specified in Schedule IV of the
Act. The remedy in the Civil Court, though alternative, in terms of amount of
damages that the workman can claim is costly and dilatory and once the workman
chooses the forum under the Workmen's Compensation Act, the damages are
restricted to a specified amount. It is once again quite evident that the
intention of the Legislature is to provide alternate forum other than regular
Civil Court under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act for the
purpose of giving speedy, effective and cheap remedy for settlement of claim
of an employee in respect of compensation and at the same time giving finality
to the decision rendered by such alternate forum, i.e. Commissioner. When the
intention of the Legislature is to treat this Forum separate and distinct than
that of the regular Civil Court, for the obvious reason stated hereinabove, it
will not be proper to treat the Commissioner as a Court and to hold that
decision rendered by him is a judgment, which undoubtedly would destroy the
very intention of the Legislature in enacting this special legislation and
also frustrate its objective. For the reasons stated hereinabove, it can
safely be inferred that the Legislature while enacting the special statute,
i.e. Workmen's Compensation Act intended to provide alternate forum for
settlement of disputes regarding compensation distinct and separate from the
regular Civil Court.

19\. Even otherwise, the word "Court" used in Section 115 of the Code of Civil
Procedure has a restrictive meaning and referable only to the Civil Court in
the normal hierarchy of the Courts and does not include in its ambit fora,
which are constituted under the special Acts and exercising special
jurisdiction. As stated hereinabove, by and large the essential features of
the Court and special fora are quite similar in regard to exercising judicial
powers of the State. Their decisions are binding in nature. The procedure is
almost similar except in case of special fora, the same need not be strictly
followed as in the case of Courts. The approach also needs to be adopted by
both is also more or less the same. The distinguishing feature between Court
and Tribunal or special forum is that a Court is constituted by the State as a
part of the normal hierarchy of Courts of Civil Judicature maintained by the
State under its Constitution exercising judicial powers of the State and
perform all the judicial functions of the State except those, which are
excluded by law from their jurisdiction, whereas Tribunal is constituted under
the special Act to exercise special jurisdiction in order to decide
controversy arising under certain special laws and, therefore, by its very
composition and formation, is distinct and separate and cannot be treated as
Court by necessary implication.

20\. It will be appropriate to consider at this stage judgment of this Court
in the case of Smt. Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v. Mackinon Machinzie and
Co. Pvt. Ltd., (supra) wherein Division Bench has held that the Commissioner
under the Workmen's Compensation Act is a Court and his decision is a judgment
and not an award and that an order passed in appeal under Section 30 of the
Act by the single Judge is a judgment within the meaning of Clause 15 of the
Letters Patent. The Division Bench of this Court primarily placed reliance on
the judgment of the Apex Court in Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha v. Sitamarhi
Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. and Anr., (supra) for the purpose of finding
out essential test that distinguishes a Court from quasi judicial Tribunal
considered the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act in the light of
ratio laid down by the Apex Court in Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha's case and
held that Commissioner under the Workmen's Compensation Act is a Court and his
decision is a judgment.

21\. In the case of Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) the Full Bench of Madhya
Pradesh High Court had an occasion to deal with identical issue and after
adjudication, the Full Bench in para (7) has observed thus :

"In Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha v. The Sitamarhi Central Co-operative Bank Ltd.
and Anr., , it was held that Assistant Registrar functioning under the Bihar
and Orissa Co-operative Societies Act is a Court subordinate to High Court for
the purpose of Section 3 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952. In that case,
the word "Court" was construed in a generic sense having regard to context of
that Act. Jugal Kishore's case was decided by a Bench of two Judges. That case
cannot be so read as to overrule the distinction between the Court and
Tribunal as pointed out by the Supreme Court in Associated Cement Companies'
case and Engineering Mazdoor Sabha's case which were decided by the larger
Benches."

The Full Bench, therefore, held that the Commissioner under the Workmen's
Compensation Act is not a 'Court' within the meaning of Section 115 of the
Code of Civil Procedure and order passed by him under Section 19 is not
revisable by the High Court. Similarly Full Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court
also considered the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in Smt.
Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v. Mackinon Machinzie and Co. Pvt. Ltd., (supra)
and for the similar reason, differed from the view taken by the Division Bench
of this Court in the said case.

22\. In Engineering Mazdoor Sabha and Anr. v. Hind Cycles Ltd. (supra) the
question which arose for decision of the Apex Court was whether an Arbitrator
appointed under Section 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 can be said
to be a Tribunal under Article 136(1) of the Constitution. The Apex Court
answered the question in negative and observed that apart from the importance
of the trappings of the Court, the basic and essential condition which makes
an authority or a body a Tribunal under Article 136, is that it should be
constituted by the State and should be invested with the State's inherent
judicial power. It has been further observed that sometimes a rough and ready
test is applied in determining the status of an adjudicating Body by enquiring
whether the said body or authority is clothed with the trappings of the Court.
In that connection, it was added that presence of said trappings does not
necessarily make the Tribunal a Court.

23\. The ratio laid down by the Apex Court in the case of Engineering Mazdoor
Sabha's case is considered by the Apex Court in the case of Associated Cement
Companies Ltd. v. P.N. Sharma and Anr. (supra) and in para 33, it is observed
thus:

"......... But as we have already stated, the consideration about the presence
of all or some of the trappings of a Court is really not decisive. The
presence of some of the trappings may assist the determination of the question
as to whether the power exercised by the Authority which possesses the said
trappings, is the judicial power of the State or not. The main and basic test,
however, is whether the adjudicating power which a particular Authority is
empowered to exercise, has been conferred on it by a statute and can be
described as a part of the State's inherent power exercised in discharging its
judicial functions."

24\. In Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) the Full Bench of Madhya Pradesh High
Court in view of the ratio laid down by the Apex Court in Engineering Mazdoor
Sabha's case, has observed in para 6 thus:

"The same distinction was pointed out by the Supreme Court in Engineering
Mazdoor Sabha and Anr. v. Hind Cycles Ltd., (supra). In that case, it was laid
down that the expression "Court" in the technical sense is a Tribunal
constituted by the State as a part of the ordinary hierarchy of Courts, which
are invested with the State's inherent judicial powers. It was also laid down
that the Tribunal as distinguished from a Court, exercises judicial powers and
decides matters brought before it judicially or quasi judicially, but it does
not constitute a Court in the technical sense."

25\. In the case of Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra), the Full Bench of Madhya
Pradesh agreed with the opinion expressed by Their Lordships in case of
Sawatram Ramprasad Mills v. Vishnu Pandorang, AIR 1950 Nagpur Hand Full Bench
of Allahabad High Court in H.C.D. Mathur v. E.I. Railway, and held that the
word "Court" in Section 115 is restricted to Civil Code and does not include
Tribunals. In para 9 of its judgment, the Full Bench has further observed that
the Commissioner appointed under this Act is a Tribunal and not a Civil Court.

26\. We respectfully agree with the view expressed by the Full Bench of Madhya
Pradesh High Court in Yeshwantrao v. Sampat, (supra) that the word "Court" as
used in Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure is used in a narrow sense,
meaning only a Civil Court in the normal hierarchy of Courts. The word "Court"
as it occurred in Section 115 does not include Tribunals, which are.
established under the special Acts and exercising special jurisdiction. The
Workmen's Compensation Act is a special legislation and the Commissioner
appointed under Section 20 of the Act discharges powers and functions as
Tribunal and is not a Civil Court. As we have already stated hereinabove,
provisions of Section 19(2) contemplate that no Civil Court shall have
jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question, which by or under
the Act is required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Commissioner
or to enforce any liability incurred under this Act. The Commissioner
appointed is an Authority, which is separate and distinct from the Civil
Court, which is further evident in view of provisions of Sub-section (5) of
Section 3 of the Workmen's Compensation Act, which excludes jurisdiction of
the Commissioner in the event of suit instituted in a Civil Court by the
employee for damages in tort. Necessary inference in the situation is that the
Commissioner is empowered to exercise powers conferred on him under Section 23
of the Workmen's Compensation Act, acts as a Tribunal and is not a Court.

27\. For the purposes of controversy in question, the observations of the Apex
Court in Harinagar Sugar Mills v. Shyam Sunder, are of great assistance. The
Apex Court in para 30 of its judgment has observed thus:

"All Tribunals are not Courts, though all Courts are Tribunals. The word
"Courts" is used to designate those Tribunals which are set up in an organised
State for the administration of justice. By administration of justice is meant
the exercise of judicial power of the State to maintain and uphold rights and
to punish "wrongs". Whenever there is an infringement of a right or an injury,
the Courts are there to restore the vinculum juris, which is disturbed."

Similarly, in para 33, the Apex Court has observed thus:

"In my opinion, a Court in the strict sense is a Tribunal which is a part of
the ordinary hierarchy of Courts of Civil Judicature maintained by the State
under its constitution to exercise the judicial power of the State. These
Courts perform all the judicial functions of the State except those that are
excluded by law from their Jurisdiction."

28\. The above referred observations make it undoubtedly clear that only such
forum/Tribunal /Authority can be called as Court, which is a part of the
ordinary hierarchy of the Courts of the Civil Judicature and exercise the
judicial power of the State as well as perform all the judicial functions of
the State. While applying these characteristics in respect of the question in
issue, it is difficult to hold that the Commissioner appointed under Section
20 of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, can be called the Court, firstly,
because the Workmen's Compensation Act is a special statute enacted by the
Legislature for a specific purpose and with definite objectives. The
Commissioner has been given specific powers and is entitled to adjudicate on
specific aspects only, provided under the Act and Rules. He does not perform
all the judicial functions of the State and is also not empowered to take
cognizance of any other aspect other than those provided under the provisions
of the Act and Rules. In the circumstances, therefore, in our opinion, merely
because some of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure are made
applicable to the proceedings before the Commissioner, such as summoning of
witnesses, compelling the production of documents and for service of their
process etc. and Commissioner discharges functions which are similar to those
of the Court and also may have some of the trappings of the Court, that is not
enough to hold that he acts as a Court of Justice and is a part of the
hierarchy of the Civil Courts.

29\. We find it necessary to reiterate that if the intention of the
Legislature was not to create distinct forum other than Civil Court for
settlement of claims of compensation, there would be no necessity to enact
Section 20 of the Workmen's Compensation Act and ordinary Civil Courts, even
otherwise, would have been competent to decide the claims of the employee
against the employer regarding the compensation. Similarly, it is not
conceivable that provision of Section 20 of the Act was enacted even though it
was not strictly necessary but for the sake of abundant caution or
clarification of the position. In the circumstances of the case, we are of the
view that the Commissioner appointed under the Act does not constitute a Court
which can be said to be part of the ordinary hierarchy of the Courts Civil
Judicature maintained by the State under its Constitution to exercise judicial
powers of the State.

30\. The other point for consideration is, since Section 30 of the Act
provides appeal to the High Court against the decision/order passed by the
Commissioner, whether the Commissioner is a Court subordinate to the High
Court and whether the High Court exercises the appellate jurisdiction and
Letters Patent Appeal is maintainable?

31\. It is, however, true that in an earlier decision of this Court Mohanlal
v. Fine Knitting Mills Co., AIR 1960 Bom. 387 it was held that the
Commissioner under the Workmen's Compensation Act, is a Court subordinate to
the High Court and revision lies to the High Court from his order. The earlier
decision proceeded on the basis that since an appeal is provided to the High
Court against certain orders of the Commissioner under the Workmen's
Compensation Act, the orders passed by the Commissioner are subject to
appellate jurisdiction of the High Court and the Commissioner is therefore a
Court subordinate. In order to be subordinate to the High Court, it must be a
Civil Court of a grade inferior to that of a District Court, as contemplated
under Section 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. We have already considered in
detail the issue as to whether the Commissioner is a Court at all and already
recorded our finding in the negative.

32\. The words "Subordinate Court" occurring in the section takes within its
ambit only a Court belonging to hierarchy of Courts mentioned in Section 3 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. Though the Commissioner, who is discharging
functions under the provisions of the Act, may have trappings of the Civil
Court, he is not a Court nor a Civil Court subordinate to the High Court
within the meaning of Section 3 of the Civil Procedure Code.

33\. Though Section 30 of the Workmen's Compensation Act provides appeal
against the order passed by the Commissioner, however, all the orders passed
by the Commissioner are not appealable and the jurisdiction of the Appellate
Court under this Section is limited one and can be exercised when there is a
substantial question of law involved in the matter. The High Court will not
interfere with the findings arrived at by the Commissioner when the same are
not vitiated by substantial error of law. In this context, it appears that at
the most appellate remedy provided under Section 30 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act can be equated for the limited purpose with that under
Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure since in both these cases,
interference by the High Court is possible only if there is a substantial
question of law involved and not otherwise. Section 100-A of the Code of Civil
Procedure puts an embargo on any further appeal under Letters Patent against
an appellate judgment rendered by the single Judge of the High Court. The
object is to minimise delay and give finality to the adjudication. Section
100-A is inserted, by the Amending Act of 1976 and after enforcement of
Section 100-A, no appeal would be available from the judgment, decree or order
of single Judge in second appeal. Though the decision given by the single
Judge of the High Court in appeal under Section 30 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act, in the circumstances of the case, is not a judgment as
envisaged in Clause 15 of the Letters Patent (Bombay), however, even if we
presume it to be so, even then the decision given by the single Judge under
Section 30 of the Workmen's Compensation Act will have same effect as that of
the decision rendered by the single Judge in second appeal and in view of
Section 100-A of the Code of Civil Procedure, Letters Patent Appeal against
such decision of the single Judge will not be maintainable. The view expressed
by us is also consistent with the aims and objects of the Workmen's
Compensation Act.

34\. The decision given by Nagpur High Court in the case of Secretary of State
v. Mt. Geeta w/o Imam Musalman and Ors., (supra), is of great assistance. The
Division Bench of this Court in Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v. Mackinon
Mackenzie & Co. Pvt. Ltd. (supra) appears to have deviated from the ratio laid
down by the Nagpur High Court only because no other subsequent judgment
following this ratio was placed before Division Bench of this Court. However,
Their Lordships in the case of Secretary of State v. Geeta w/o Imam Musalman
and Ors., (supra), after due consideration observed thus:

"There is, in our opinion, no judgment within the meaning of Clause 10 of the
Letters Patent from which to appeal. There is only an award made pursuant to
the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act. It may be that the result is
unfortunate, but that can be set right by legislation. We are not convinced
that the result necessarily is unfortunate because in workmen's compensation
proceedings, one has, from the very nature of the case, on the one hand,
persons unable to sustain (unless supported by a Trade Union) a long continued
and expensive litigation and it may well be for ought we know to the contrary
that it was the intention of the Legislature to restrict the number of Courts
which can consider the comparatively simple points that arise under the
Workmen's Compensation Act. If a Letters Patent Appeal lay it could only lie
for reasons which would make appeal possible not only to a Division Bench from
a single Judge but also from the Division Bench to the Privy Council. That may
or may not be desirable. In England three Courts can, and frequently do,
consider these workmen's compensation awards: the County Court, the Court of
Appeal and the House of Lords. If we are right, as the law at present stands
only two Tribunals can consider these matters in India : (1) the Commissioner,
(2) the High Court

35\. The above referred observations of Nagpur High Court clearly show that
Their Lordships considered the scheme of the Workmen's Compensation Act in the
light of legislative intent and have held that there are only two Tribunals
competent to consider the matter under the Workmen's Compensation Act and are
entitled to pass an award, i.e. the Commissioner appointed under Section 20 of
the Workmen's Compensation Act and High Court, which gives decision in the
nature of award in an appeal under Section 30 of the Workmen's Compensation
Act. The decision given by the single Judge, in our opinion, in the
circumstances and for the reasons stated hereinabove, cannot be construed to
be a judgment as envisaged in Clause 15 of the Letters Patent (Bombay) and,
therefore, Letters Patent Appeal, in our opinion, is not maintainable. The
view expressed by us that the Commissioner does not act as a Court subordinate
to High Court is also fortified by the Division Bench of Rajasthan High Court
in the case of Baahir Khan v. Ranger, .

36\. The Apex Court, in Thakur Jugalkishore Sinha 's case (supra) though held
that Assistant Registrar functioning under Bihar and Orissa Co-operative
Societies Act is a Court subordinate to High Court for the purpose of Section
3 of the Contempt of Courts Act, has considered the expression 'Court' in the
light of the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act and not from the point
of view of word 'subordinate Court' used in Section 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure and, therefore, held that, "in our view, the sub-ordination for the
purpose of Section 3 of the Contempt of Courts Act means a judicial sub-
ordination and not sub-ordination under the hierarchy of Courts under the Code
of Civil Procedure or Code of Criminal Procedure." We have already stated
hereinabove that the Full Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court, in Yashwantrao's
case, has considered the judgment of the larger Benches of the Apex Court
stated hereinabove and held that the Commissioner is not a 'Court' within the
meaning of Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure. We have already
expressed our concurrence with the view of the Full Bench.

37\. We answer the reference accordingly and overrule the judgment rendered by
the Division Bench of this Court in Smt. Rajiyabi Cosman Sayi and Anr. v.
Mackinon Machinzie & Co. Pvt. Ltd., (supra).

