

Delhi High Court

Lok Nath Prasad Gupta vs Bijay Kumar Gupta on 20 January, 1995

Equivalent citations: 1995 (32) DRJ 350

Author: R Lahoti

Bench: R Lahoti

JUDGMENT R.C. Lahoti, J.

(1) Section 62 of the Copy Right Act, 1957 read in juxtaposition with Section
20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, which forum can a plaintiff invoke
complaining of infringement of copy right or infringement of any other right
conferred by the Copy Right Act, is the question arising for decision.

(2) On the plaintiff's own showing, and admittedly, the plaintiff and the
defendant are both residents of Calcutta. Plaintiff who is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of chewing tobacco known as khaini under the trade mark
Raja, claims copy right in the pouch which according to him coupled with
distinctive colour combination get-up and lay-out constitutes an 'original
artistic work' within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Copy Right Act
(hereinafter 'Act', for short) and the plaintiff is the owner thereof. He
complains of the defendant having reproduced the plainiff's artistic work in
his own pouch wherein he sells Ratan Khaini and is thereby committing
infringement of the plaintiff's copy right. Vide para 13 the plaintiff states,
"the Court has jurisdiction to entertain and try the present suit as the
defendant is selling its products within the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court. Moreover, this Court has jurisdiction under Section 62(2) of the Copy
Right Act, 1957 as the plaintiffs carry on their business within the
territorial jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court."

(3) Apart from the above said statement in para 13, which is the jurisdiction
clause in the plaint, it is nowhere mentioned in the plaint as to how and in
what manner, the plaintiff carries on his business within the jurisdiction of
this Court. Nor is it stated as to how and in what manner, the defendant is
selling its products within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. The
plaintiff has not alleged a single transaction of any sale of his product by
the defendant himself or anyone else on his behalf in the infringing pouch
within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.

(4) The defendant has specifically pleaded in the written statement that this
Court does not have jurisdiction to try the suit as both the parties are
manufacturing chewing tobacco (khaini) in Distt. 24 Pargana (North) West
Bengal and the defendant has never sold his khaini in the jurisdiction of this
Court at any point of time. It is further alleged that the plaintiff has filed
the present suit before this Court with a view to harass the defendant. The
defendant lives jointly with his elder brother Shri Rakesh Kumar Gupta.
Plaintiff's sister is married with the defendant's .brother. Their relations
are strained.

(5) It is well settled that the question of jurisdiction has to be decided,
prima facie, by looking into averments made in the plaint and not by the plea
taken in the written statement.

(6) Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter 'Code', for short)
provides for a suit being instituted in a Court within the local limits of
Whose jurisdiction, the defendant or each of the defendants or one of the
defendants actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or
personally works for gain (subject to leave of the Court where one of the
defendants only resides within the jurisdiction of the Court) or where the
cause of action wholly or in part arise.

(7) Section 62 of the Act reads as under :-

"62.Jurisdiction of Court over matters arising under this Chapter -

(1)Every suit or other civil proceedings arising under this Chapter in respect
of the infringement of copyright in any work or the infringement of any other
right conferred by this Act shall be instituted in the District Court having
jurisdiction.

(2)For the purpose of sub-section (1), a "District Court having jurisdiction"
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908, or any other law for the time being in force, include a District Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the institution
of the suit or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit or other
proceeding or, where there are more than one such person, any of them actually
and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain."

A bare reading of Section 62 of the Act makes it clear that sub-Section 1 of
Section 62 over-rides the provisions or Civil Procedure Code relating to
jurisdiction of the Court to the limited extent that the suit has to be
instituted only in a District Court. Sub-Section (2) of Section 62, as the use
of the word 'includes' therein suggests, gives an extended meaning to the
phrase "District Court having jurisdiction". The use of the word 'includes' in
a legislative expression by the draftsman assigns an extended meaning to the
word or expression in relation to which it is used. Artificially it is made to
include what would otherwise have been excluded. If there would not have been
sub- Section (2) and only Sub-Section (1) in Section 62 of the Act then' the
suits relating to infringement of copy right in any work or the infringement
of any other right conferred by the Act shall have been required to be
instituted in a District Court having jurisdiction determinable by reference
to Sections 15 to 20 of the Code. The effect of Sub-Section (2) is that a suit
in .respect of infringement of a right referred to in sub- Section (1) can be
filed not only in a District Court having jurisdiction by reference to the
Code but also in a District Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction at the time of institution of the suit or the proceeding, the
person instituting the suit or the 'proceeding or where there are more than
one such person, any of them actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
business or personally works for gain, though such a District Court would not
have had jurisdiction but for the provisions of Section 62(2) of the Act.

(8) "ACTUALLY and voluntarily resides", "carries on business" and "personally
works for gain" have the same meaning to be assigned in Section 20 of the Code
or in Section 62(2) of the Act.

(9) Order 7 Rule I of Civil Procedure Code enjoins a plaint to contain
particulars as to the facts showing that the Court has jurisdiction. Order 6
Rules 2 and 4 require all material facts and particulars with dates and items,
if necessary, to be stated in the pleadings. A Full Bench of Patna High Court
has held in Smt.Fula Devi VS. Mangtu Maharaj & Ors., :- "UNLESS a plaintiff
pleads in his plaint facts which would make the suit prima facie entertainable
by the Courts it cannot be said that the plaintiff has discharged the duty put
upon him by Order 7 Rule l(f) of the Code."

(10) A bald assertion, as has been made in para 13 of the plaint referred to
hereinabove, without giving further facts or particulars is not enough to
confer this Court With a territorial jurisdiction over the suit. The plaintiff
does not allege having any shop, branch or office of his own in Delhi. The
plaint also does not allege any instance of the defendant having sold the
infringing goods in Delhi or having any office, branch or shop of his own in
Delhi.

(11) Learned counsel for the plaintiff has cited number of judgments given
below in defense of his plea of territorial jurisdiction vesting in this
Court:

1.Brady Vs. Chemical Process Equipment Fsr (1988) 457.

2.Amar Soap Factory Vs. Public Gram I.L.R.(1985) 1 Del 960.

3.Glaxo VS. Samrat Pharmaceuticals .

4.Kissan Industries VS. Punjab Food 1984 Iplr 131.

5.Nirex Industries VS. Manchand Footwears 1984 Iplr 70.

6.Tobu Enterprises VS. Toho Cyles 1983 Iplr 150.

7.TOMCO Ltd. VS. Reward Soap 1983 Iplr 91

8.Deep Chand Arya Vs. Kiron Soap 1981 Ptc 108

9.TOMCO Ltd. Vs. Hansa Chemical Ilr (1979) Ii Del 236 I have gone through the
decisions cited. I find nothing therein deterimental to the view taken by me
hereinabove.

(12) Learned counsel for the defendant has placed reliance on the cases of
Glaxo Vs. Samrat (supra) , Tata Oil Mills Company Ltd.. Delhi VS. Reward Soap
Works Air 1983 Delhi 236 and Everest Pictures Cicuit, Salem VS. S.
Karuppannan, .

(13) I am referring only to one case which is The Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd. Vs.
Dr.Gajra's Monochem Industries 1988(1) Tmc 1. The plaintiff company had its
registered office in Bombay and Branch Office in Delhi. The suit was filed in
Delhi. Shri M.K. Chawla, J. has held vide para 8 that Section 62(2) of the Act
is an 'exception' and to that extent 'altering the principles laid down in
Section 20 of the Code.' (14) The averments made in the plaint, as it stands,
fail in conferring territorial jurisdiction on this Court. It is held that the
suit does not lie within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.

(15) The plaint is directed to be returned to the plaintiff for presentation
to proper court. The suit and Ia be treated as stand disposed of.

