

Central Information Commission

Ms.Bombay Stock Exchange Limited vs Securities And Exchange Board Of ... on 10
October, 2011

    
    
         CENTRAL INFORMATION COMMISSION
       Room No. 308, B-Wing, August Kranti Bhawan, Bhikaji Cama Place, New Delhi-110066
    
    
                          File No.CIC/SM/A/2011/001687
    
    Appellant              :       Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd (BSE)
    Respondent             :       Security and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
    
    Date of Hearing        :       26.8.2011
    Date of Decision :             10.10.2011
    
    FACTS

:

This matter was heard by a Full Bench of this Commission on 26.8.2011. The
Bench consisted of the following :-

(i) Shri M.L. Sharma, Information Commissioner;

(ii) Ms Annapurna Dixit, Information Commissioner; &

(iii) Ms Sushma Singh, Information Commissioner.

2\. The following were present :-

Bombay Stock Exchange :-

(i) Shri Shyam Divan, Sr Advocate;

(ii) Shri Pratap Venugopal, Advocate;

(iii) Ms Surekha Rama, Advocate;

(iv) Shri Dileep P;

(v) Shri Nirma Sharma

(vi) Shri Shailesh Ja SEBI :-

Ms Jeny John, DGM, SEBI RTI applicant :-

(i) Shri Yogesh B Mehta

(ii) Shri Suresh Kabra

3\. The matter, in short, is that vide RTI application dated 07.12.2010, Shri
Yogesh B Mehta had sought information on 22 paras from SEBI requesting for
copies of certain documents. The CPIO of SEBI had responded to it, para-wise,
vide letter dated 5.1.2011. As regards paras 07, 08, 09 & 13 of the RTI
application, the CPIO had observed as follows :-

> "The information sought pertains to third party and hence in terms of
> section 11 of the RTI Act, 2005, third party procedure has been initiated.
> Upon receipt of reply from third party, our reply will be furnished to you."

4\. Vide subsequent letter dated 10.10.2011, the CPIO had informed the
appellant that in view of objections filed by the 3rd party, the said
information could not be disclosed to him Aggrieved with the decision of CPIO,
Shri Mehta had filed the first appeal which was decided by the AA through a
cryptic order dated 1.3.2011. The said order is reproduced below :-

"1. The appellant had filed application dated December 7, 2010 under the Right
to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act). The respondent, vide letters dated January
5, 2011 and January 10, 2011, January 14, 2011 and January 21, 2011, responded
to the appellant. Aggrieved by the responses of the respondent, the appellant
has filed this appeal dated February 11, 2011.

2\. I have carefully examined the application, the responses, and the appeal
and find that the matter can be decided on merit based on the material
available on record.

3\. The main argument in this appeal is that the respondent has not given the
inspection as requested by the appellant. I find that the appellant had sought
inspection of documents in his original application and thereafter vide letter
dated January 14, 2011. If an applicant keeps demanding inspection of
documents, it is better for the respondent to allow inspection of the
documents after applying the provisions of section 10 of the RTI Act to avoid
application after application and appeals alleging that not everything was
disclosed, as was alleged by the appellant in this case. I feel that all other
points raised by the appellant in this appeal would cover if he is allowed
inspection of documents. I, therefore, direct the respondent to invite the
appellant for inspection of relevant documents, in accordance with the RTI
Act, within 15 days from receipt of this order." A bare perusal of the above
order would indicate that the AA had reversed the decision of CPIO in regard
to these paras and allowed inspection of documents subject to the severability
clause of section 10 of the RTI Act.

5\. Aggrieved with the decision of the Appellate Authority, the BSE has filed
the present appeal dated 18th May, 2011, before the Commission.

6\. Shri Shyam Diwan, Sr Advocate appearing for the BSE, has assailed the
order of the AA. Refering to para 01 of the said order, he submits that this
para refers to letters dated 5.1.2011, 10.1.2011, 14.1.2011 and 21.1.2011 but
the contents thereof have not been mentioned therein, making it difficult for
the BSE to make any sense out of it. He also assails this order on the ground
that no opportunity of hearing was given to BSE before passing the impugned
order. According to him, this order also suffers from the vice of non-
application of mind. It is also his submission that Shri Mehta has tried to
get information generated by and relating to BSE through SEBI indirectly and
unfairly.

7\. In his brief submission, Shri Suresh Kabra appearing for Shri Yogesh Mehta
(RTI applicant) would submit that SEBI is the regulator of the financial
markets and is entitled to seek information from the entities such as BSE. He
alleges that BSE has committed a fraud of about 90 crores and one of the
Directors of BSE had to resign. He also alleges that BSE has shown fraudulent
expenditure of Rs 60 crores on advertisements relating to Market Making Scheme
(MMS) etc. In the circumstances, disclosure of requested information by SEBI
would be in the larger public interest.

8\. Ms Jeny John appearing for SEBI deflates the whole issue by submitting
that the CPIO had sought objections from BSE and keeping in view the
objections filed by BSE, no information objected to by BSE has been disclosed
to Shri Mehta. She files a written representation dated 23.8.2011 before this
Commission, duly signed by Dr Anil Kumar Sharma, CPIO, which is taken on
record. She in particular, draws the Commission's attention the para 07 of the
representation in this regard which is extracted below :- "7. Not being
satisfied with the reply of Respondent 2, Respondent 1 preferred an appeal
before SEBI Appellate Authority (Respondent 3) who passed an order dated March
1, 2011, directing Respondent 2 to provide an opportunity to Respondent 1 for
inspection of documents after applying section 10 of RTI Act (Copy of order
enclosed as Annexure R-3). The Respondent No 2, after invoking section 8 (1)
(d) of RTI Act did not provide any of the documents objected by the appellant
to Respondent No 1 for inspection. Subsequent to inspection copies of
documents were furnished to Respondent 1 vide letter reference number
CPIO/AKS/JR/AAO-1084-2011/12086 dated April 8, 2011 (Copy enclosed as Annexure
R-4). In the said letter reference is made that those documents objected to by
the appellant to disclose were not furnished to Respondent 1 citing exemption
under the RTI Act."

9\. In the appeal memo filed before this Commission, the BSE has averred as
follows :-

> "The Respondent No 1 thereafter filed an Appeal - No 1094 of 2011 dated
> February 11, 2011 against the aforesaid responses of the Respondent No 2
> before the Appellate Authority, SEBI i.e. the Respondent No 3 herein. The
> Appellate Authority passed its order dated March 01, 2011 stating that the
> Respondent No 1 had sought inspection of documents in his original
> application and if he keeps demanding inspection of documents, it is better
> for the CPIO, SEBI to allow inspection of the documents after applying the
> provisions of s.10 of the RTI Act to avoid application after application and
> appeals alleging that not everything was disclosed, as was alleged by the
> Respondent No 1. The Appellate Authority also held that all the points
> raised by the Respondent No 1 in his appeal would be covered if he is
> allowed inspection of documents. Therefore, the Respondent No 3 directed the
> Respondent No 2 to invite the Respondent No 1 for inspection of relevant
> documents, in accordance with the RTI Act, within 15 days from the receipt
> of this order. The appellant was neither issued with any notice of hearing
> nor heard in the matter nor served with a copy of the letters/orders of the
> Respondent No 2 or a copy of the impugned order."

10\. Needless to say, BSE would be an aggrieved party only if SEBI discloses
any information which is detrimental or injurious to its interest and which
has been objected to by it. From the representation of SEBI extracted above,
it is clear that it has not disclosed any information which was objected to by
BSE. SEBI has also not used the larger public interest doctrine in disclosing
any information objected to by BSE.

11\. A few day after the hearing, M/s K.J. John & Co, claiming to be the
Advocates for appellant BSE, submitted a Short Note of Submissions which is
taken on record. The contentions raised in the said Note may be summarised as
follows :-

(i) that the CPIO did not comply with the provisions of section 11 (3) of the
RTI Act inasmuchas no written notice of his decision was given to the
appellant;

(ii) that the AA neither issued any notice nor granted an opportunity of
hearing to the appellant;

(iii) that the AA did not communicate his decision to the appellant;

(iv) that the order dated 1.3.2011 passed by the AA is indicative of non-
application of mind on his part;

(v) that the contention of SEBI that the appeal has become infructuous on
account of the fact that it has not furnished any documents objected to by
appellant BSE is factually incorrect as explained in the additional affidavit
filed on behalf of the appellant.

(vi) that the SEBI has not followed the procedure laid down in section 11 of
the RTI Act. Para 08 of the note is extracted below :-

"8. Even assuming, without admitting that the Respondent No 2 has not
disclosed the documents objected to by the appellant, the present appeal ought
not and cannot be disposed of without :

(a) An undertaking of the Respondent No 2/Securities and Exchange Board of
India that the documents objected to by the appellant would not be disclosed
either by way of inspection or by way of photocopies to the Respondent No 1;

(b) Appropriate orders/directions by this Hon'ble Commission with respect to
the non compliance/non observation of the requirements of the RTI Act, 2005 by
the Respondent No 2 and the CPIO of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India."

12\. An additional affidavit dated 29.8.2011 sworn by Shri Shantilal D. Jain,
Manager Legal, BSE, has also been filed before this Commission which is taken
on record. It is his allegation that despite SEBI's averment before this
Commission on 26.8.2011 that no documents objected to by BSE were disclosed to
the information seeker, certain documents have been disclosed. Para 03 of his
affidavit is extracted below :-

> "3. I say that on 26.8.2011, the Appellant has learnt from an order dated
> 30.6.2011 passed by the Appellate Authority (Respondent No 2) and obtained
> from the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, that part of
> the documents which from subject matter of the letter dated 4.1.2011
> addressed by the CPIO of the Respondent No 2 to the Appellant (Annexure -
> A/2 at page 17 of the Appeal) and dealt with in the reply of the Appellant
> dated 5.1.2011 have been disclosed to the Respondent No 1, which is borne
> out by the said order of the Appellate Authority (Respondent No 2) dated
> 30.6.2011, which inter alia reads thus :-

> The appellant paid Rs 64/- and SEBI vide letter dated January 14, 2011
> furnished the following documents to the appellant. i.
> ...................................... ii.
> ...................................... iii.
> ...................................... iv.
> ...................................... v.
> ...................................... vi.
> ...................................... vii.
> ...................................... viii.
> ...................................... ix.
> ...................................... x.
> ...................................... xi BSE letter dated July 2, 2004
> addressed to Chairman, SEBI enclosing the proposal to introduce market
> making scheme. It may be pertinent to state that the document at serial No
> xi referred to herein above is the very document at point 13 of the letter
> of the Respondent No 2 dated 4.1.2011 (Annexure - A/2 at page 17 of the
> appeal) and dealt with in the reply of the Appellant dated 5.1.2011
> (Annexure - A/3 at page 18-19 of the Appeal) A copy of the aforesaid order
> of the Appellate Authority (Respondent No 2) dated 30.6.2011 is annexed
> hereto and marked as Exhibit -A."

13\. Before dealing with the merits of the case, we would like to observe that
appellant BSE did not file a copy of the RTI application filed by the
information seeker Shri Yogesh Mehta alongwith its appeal as per standard
practice. Nor did it file a copy of the order passed by the CPIO. On a query
from the Commission, Sr Adv Diwan would submit that a copy of the CPIO's order
was not sent to the BSE.

14\. Sr Adv Dewan has raised the following procedural issues in regard to the
decisions of CPIO and AA :-

(i) whether the CPIO is required to send a copy of his order to the third
party from whom consent had been sought u/s 11 (1) of the RTI Act;

(ii) whether the CPIO and FAA are required to give an opportunity of hearing
to the third party; and

(iii) whether order dated 1.1.2011 passed by the FAA is self contained and
self speaking and fulfills the requirements of the RTI Act.

15\. Issue No (i), may be answered in unambiguous terms by referring to the
express provisions of sub section (3) of section 11 which is reproduced
below:-

> "(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, the Central Public
> Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be,
> shall, within forty days after receipt of the request under section 6, if
> the third party has been given an opportunity to make representation under
> sub-section (2), make a decision as to whether or not to disclose the
> information or record or part thereof and give in writing the notice of his
> decision to the third party."

> From the above provision, it is clear that CPIO is required to send a copy
> of his decision to the 3rd party.

16\. Coming to issue No (ii), needless to say that rendering an opportunity of
hearing to the parties is a fundamental principle of jurisprudence. It is
conducive to fairness and transparency and accords with the principles of
natural justice. An opportunity of hearing to the parties also brings greater
clarity to the adjudicating authorities. No wonder, an opportunity of hearing
is given to the rival parties under our procedural laws-both criminal and
civil. However, adjudication of the matters under the RTI Act is to be seen
from a slightly different angle. Lakhs of cases are filed before the CPIOs and
State Public Information Officers. The appeals arising therefrom filed before
the Central Information Commission and the State Information Commissions run
into hundreds of thousands. This Commission always gives an opportunity of
hearing to the parties but this does not appear to be done by the CPIOs/SPIOs
and FAAs as there are practical difficulties therein, partly arising out of
the numbers involved and party due to the limited time frame in which the
matters are required to be decided at the level of CPIOs & AAs. In view of
this, we restrain ourselves from directing the CPIOs and AAs to always give an
opportunity of hearing to the parties as an inflexible rule and leave the
matter to their discretion. All that the we would like to suggest is that an
opportunity of hearing may be given to the parties, including the third party,
if practicable, without forgetting that essence of RTI Act is adherence to the
timelines prescribed in the Act.

17\. Now, we come to Issue No (iii). It is note worthy that the RTI
application filed by Shri Yogesh B Mehta runs into 22 paras. The CPIO dealt
with the application para-wise in his order dated 5.1.2011 wherein information
was denied to the appellant on paras 07, 08, 09 and 13 thereof. We would have
expected the AA to deal with RTI application para-wise, in the context of the
order of the CPIO and the appeal memo filed before him, particularly in
respect of the paras regarding which information was denied. We, however,
notice that the FAA has passed a bland order without dealing with the issues
threadbare. We also would have expected the FAA to apply the provisions of
section 10 to the information to be disclosed at his own level rather than
leaving the entire matter to the discretion of the CPIO. In the premises, the
order passed by the AA can not be said to be self contained and self speaking.
We, however, are not inclined to remand the matter back to him as, in our
opinion, no prejudice appears to have been caused to appellant BSE, as
demonstrated hereinafter.

18\. Now, we come to the most critical part of our inquiry i.e. the merits of
the case. Para 08 of this order may be recalled wherein we had extracted para
07 of the affidavit filed by CPIO of SEBI wherein he has categorically averred
that no information whatsoever has been disclosed which was objected to by
appellant BSE. In the written material filed before this Commission extracted
herein above, there is not even a whisper as to the information which was
disclosed by the CPIO, disregarding the objections filed by the appellant
herein. We may, however, mention that in para 03 of his affidavit extracted
hereinabove, Shri Shanti Lal D. Jain, Manager Legal, BSE, has vaguely referred
to disclosure of some information but in our understanding, he has not
categorically alleged that information objected to by BSE was disclosed. In
fact, we have carefully perused the order dated 30.6.2011 passed by the AA of
SEBI and find that in para 08 thereof, he has categorically mentioned that 3rd
party information is not to be disclosed. This para is extracted below for
ready reference:-

> "8. As regards the prayer at (7.A), I find from the chronology of events at
> Para 2 supra that the respondent has complied with the order of the AA and
> provided inspections and relevant information to the appellant except the
> third party information and the information which was offered to the
> appellant vide letter dated April 8, 2011 on payment of additional fee."

19\. From the above, it is clear that the apprehensions of appellant BSE in
this regard are misplaced.

20\. There is yet another issue that calls for our attention. In para 08 of
the Note submitted on behalf of the appellant, we notice that the appellant
wants to have an undertaking from SEBI to the effect that the documents
objected to by appellant BSE would not be disclosed either by way of
inspection or by way of photocopies. By implication, the appellant is
admitting that no documents objected to by the appellant have been disclosed
so far. We may, however, observe that the objections filed by the appellant
herein u/s 11 (1) are not binding on the CPIO. These objections are only to be
kept in view by the CPIO while taking a decision regarding disclosure of
information. We make it clear that this Commission can not fetter the
discretion of the CPIO regarding the disclosure of 3rd party information.
Thus, the relief sought is misconceived.

21\. The findings of this Commission can be crystalised as follows:-

(i) The CPIOs are mandated to send a copies of their orders to the 3rd party
u/s 11 (3), from whom objections are sought u/s 11 (1).

(ii) It is not practical to lay down an inflexible rule that PIOs and AAs will
always offer an opportunity of hearing to the parties, let alone to the 3rd
party. They may do so as per their discretion, keeping in view the complexity
of legal and factual issues involved, without forgetting that timelines are to
be adhered to, being the essence of the Act.

(iii) The order passed by the AA is not self-contained and speaking and we
advise him to pass speaking orders in future.

(iv) In view of the averment of Dr Anil Kumar, CPIO of SEBI, extracted above,
the appeal has become infructuous and is dismissed.

Order reserved & pronounced today dated 10th October, 2011.

    
    
    (Sushma Singh)                                      (Annapurna Dixit)
    Information Commissioner                    Information Commissioner
    
    
    
                                 (M.L. Sharma)
                           Information Commissioner
     

