

Supreme Court of India

Rajiv Sarin & Anr vs State Of Uttarakhand & Ors on 9 August, 2011

Author: . M Sharma

Bench: S.H. Kapadia, Mukundakam Sharma, K.S. Radhakrishnan, Swatanter Kumar,
Anil R. Dave

    
    
                                                                            REPORTABLE
    
    
    
               IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
    
    
                        CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
    
    
    
                        CIVIL APPEAL NO.  4772 OF 1998
    
    
    
    
    Rajiv Sarin & Anr.                                                     .... 
    
    Appellants
    
    
    
                                       Versus
    
    
    
    State of Uttarakhand & Ors.                                               .... 
    
    Respondents
    
    
    
    
    
                                    JUDGMENT
    

Dr. MUKUNDAKAM SHARMA, J.

The present Civil Appeal emanates from the judgment

1\. and order dated 12th August 1997 passed by the High Court of Judicature at
Allahabad in Writ Petition No. 8927 of 1988, whereby the Division Bench of the
High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellants.

Whether the High Court was justified in holding that the appellants were not
entitled to any compensation even when their forest land is acquired by the
government, merely because the appellants had not derived any  Page 1 of 52
income from the said forest, is one of the several important questions of law
which has arisen for consideration in the present appeal.

The appellant's father Shri P. N. Sarin had in the year

2\. 1945 acquired proprietary right in an Estate known as Beni Tal Fee Simple
Estate situated in Pargana Chandpur, Tehsil Karan Prayag, District Chamoli,
Uttarakhand (hereinafter referred to as "the property in question") which
comprised of large tracts of forest spanning in and around 1600 acres. On the
death of Shri P.N. Sarin in the year 1976 appellants succeeded to the property
in question. By a Gazette Notification dated 21st December, 1977 under Section
4-A of the Kumaun and Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act,
1960 (hereinafter referred to as "KUZALR Act") as amended by the U.P. Act No.
15 of 1978, the rights, title and interest of every hissedar in respect of
forest land situated in the specified areas ceased with effect from 01st
January, 1978 and the same were vested in the State Government. A notice
issued by the Assistant Collector, Karan Prayag, District Chamoli, under Rule
2 of the Kumaun and Uttrakhand Zamindari Abolition and  Page 2 of 52 Land
Reform Rules, 1965 (hereinafter referred to as "the KUZALR Rules") framed
under the KUZALR Act was served upon the appellants intimating them that
effective from 1st January, 1978, the rights, title and interest of hissedar
in respect of the property in question had vested in the State Government free
from all encumbrances and it invited objections and statement, if any,
relating to the compensation qua the property in question.

Assailing the aforesaid notice issued by the Assistant

3\. Collector, the appellants preferred a writ petition under Article 32 of
the Constitution before this Court. On 13th December 1978 while disposing the
aforesaid writ petition, this Court passed the following order "We are of the
opinion that it will be better if the Petitioner files a petition under
Article 226 of the Constitution in the High Court. This Petition is therefore
allowed to be withdrawn."

Subsequently, on 02nd April 1979 the appellants filed

4\. objections to the notice issued by the Assistant Collector challenging the
vires of the KUZALR Act and also stating that no profit was being made from
the property in  Page 3 of 52 question. By an order dated 11th April 1988, the
Assistant Collector dismissed the objections of the appellants by observing
that that he had no jurisdiction to consider the legal validity of the KUZALR
Act. With regard to the issue of compensation, the Assistant Collector held
that since the KUZALR Act does not provide for a method to compute
compensation in cases where no income has been derived from the forests, the
appellants were not entitled to any compensation.

Feeling aggrieved, the appellants preferred a writ petition in

5\. the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad questioning the legality and
validity of the order of the Assistant Collector and also challenging the
constitutional validity of Sections 4A, 18(1)(cc) and 19(1)(b) of the KUZALR
Act. By impugned judgment dated 12th August 1997, the High Court dismissed the
writ petition.

Not satisfied with the judgment rendered by the High

6\. Court, the appellants preferred a Special Leave Petition in which leave
was granted by this Court by order dated 11th September 1998. By an order
passed on 11th August, 2010, this appeal was directed to be listed before the
Constitution  Page 4 of 52 Bench. This matter was thereafter listed before the
Constitution Bench alongwith other connected matters wherein also the issue of
scope and extent of right under Article 300A of the Constitution of India was
one of the issues to be considered.

7\. We heard the learned senior counsel appearing for the parties in respect
of all the contentions raised before us.

Before addressing the rival contentions advanced by the parties, it will be
useful to throw some light on the relevant legal position which is
intrinsically complex and requires closer examination.

The Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms

8\. Act, 1950 (hereinafter to be referred as "UPZALR Act") was enacted in the
year 1950 and the UPZALR Act was made applicable to the whole of the State of
U.P. except inter-alia the areas of Kumaon, Uttarakhand. The object of the
UPZALR Act as quite evident from its statements and objects are to provide for
the abolition of the Zamindari System which involves intermediaries between
the tiller of the soil and the State in Uttar Pradesh and for the acquisition
of their rights, title and interest and to reform  Page 5 of 52 the law
relating to land tenure consequent upon such abolition and acquisition and to
make provision for other matters connected therewith.

Subsequently, on 02nd August 1960 Kumaun and

9\. Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1960 was enacted.
The object of the KUZALR Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights,
title and interests of persons between the State and the tiller of the soil in
certain areas of the Kumaun and Garhwal Divisions and for the introduction of
land reforms therein. It is important to notice that the original KUZALR Act
did not provide for vesting of private forests, and the definition of the word
"land" in Section 3(10) thereof excluded forest. Section 3(10) of the KUZALR
Act reads as follows:-

"3(10). "land" means land held or occupied for purposes connected with
agriculture, horticulture or animal husbandry which includes pisciculture and
poultry farming but shall not include a forest;"

However, after the commencement of the Constitution (42nd

10\. Amendment) Act, 1976 which came into effect from 03rd January 1977
wherein inter-alia the subject "forests" was included in the Concurrent List
of the Seventh Schedule of  Page 6 of 52 the Constitution as Entry 17A; the
U.P. Zamindari Abolition (Amendment) Act, 1978 (U.P. Act 15 of 1978) was
passed on 30th November 1977 whereby KUZALR Act was amended.

In the preamble and Statement of Objects and Reasons necessitating the
amendment, it is stated that the amendment act amends Kumaun and Uttarakhand
Zamindari abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1960 also. It goes on to state that
in the areas governed by the Principal Act namely the Uttar Pradesh Zamindari
Abolition and Land Reforms Act, the rights, title and interest of ex-

intermediaries in respect of their private forests were abolished and vested
in State. It also states that in the areas to which the Kumaun and Uttarakhand
Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1960 apply, the hissedars
(Intermediaries) continued to enjoy their rights in respect of their private
forests and therefore it was necessary to remove the disparity as well by
introducing an amendment in the nature of Section 4A. Under the aforesaid
amendment to the KUZALR Act, Section 4A was added to the KUZALR Act and
private forests were brought within its purview. It will be useful to
reproduce Section 4A, 18(1)(cc) and 19(1)(b) of the KUZALR Act which reads as
follows:

Page 7 of 52

> "4-A. Vesting of interest of hissedar in the forest land - With effect from
> January 1, 1978 the rights, title and interest of every hissedar in respect
> of forest land shall cease and shall vest in the State Government free from
> all encumbrances, and the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter V shall
> mutatis mutandis apply to a forest land as they apply to a khaikari land."

> > xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx "18 (1) (cc) in the case of a private
> forest, the average annual income from such forest for a period of twenty
> agricultural years immediately preceding the date of vesting;"

> > xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx "19(1) (b) - in the case of a private
> forest, eight times of the amount of average annual income from such
> forest."

Kumaun and Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land

11\. Reforms Act, 1960, which is a State legislation received the assent of
the President of India on 10th September, 1960.

The amendment brought in 1978 through UP Act 15 of 1978 to the said Act also
received the assent of the President on 26th April, 1978.

12.At the outset we would like to mention that there is no specific whisper of
defence raised under Articles 31A, 31B and 31C of the Constitution in the
Counter-Affidavit/Reply filed by the State of Uttarakhand to the writ petition
filed by  Page 8 of 52 the appellants in the High Court nor even before this
Court but an attempt was made to argue the case on those grounds on behalf of
the respondents. As there is no mention of any of the aforesaid Articles of
the Constitution in the arguments or specific pleadings by the respondents in
the writ petition, the question of deciding the applicability of those
provisions of the Constitution and consequent protection of the Act,
therefore, does not arise.

13.It was contended by Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing
for the appellants that the original KUZALR Act, 1960 excluded private forests
[Section 6(1) (4)], since the vesting of private forests in the State would
not be by way of agrarian reform. It was further contended that the provision
for agrarian reforms, therefore, should be a part of the Act, but, in the
present case, the private forests so acquired under Section 4A of the KUZALR
Act becomes the property of the State which is untenable.

14.It was further argued that in any event, under Section 4A of the KUZALR
Act, it is only the provisions of Chapter-II and Chapter-V which shall apply
to forests land while Rule 41 occurs in Chapter IV and has no application to
the  Page 9 of 52 forests covered by Section 4A, and hence Rule 41 will not
apply to forests acquired under Section 4A of the KUZALR Act. Further, if
Article 31A of the Constitution has no application, then the law has to be
tested against the Constitution as it stood on the date of its enactment, i.e.
the U.P. Amendment Act, 1978 bringing forth amendment to KUZALR Act has to
stand the test of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. It was further
contended that the said Amendment Act would be invalid since the mere transfer
of the private forests to the State would by itself not be a public purpose
and, furthermore, non-grant /total absence of compensation to the appellants,
while granting full compensation to other owners of private forests who have
mismanaged the forests or clear-felled the forests, would be violative of
Article 14 of the Constitution.

Per contra Shri Parag P. Tripathi, Ld. Additional Solicitor

15\. General strenuously argued that that the entry "Acquisition and
Requisitioning of property" which was earlier in the form of Entry 36/List-II
of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution [which was subject to Entry
42/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution] and Entry 33/List-I
of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution provided only  Page 10 of 52 the
field of legislative power and did not extend to providing or requiring
compensation. The requirement of compensation in the event of "taking" flows
only from Article 31(2) of the Constitution, which was repealed by the
Constitution (44th Amendment) Act, with effect from 26th September, 1979.

16.As far as the question of alleged discrimination i.e. giving compensation
to other owners and nil compensation to the appellants herein is concerned, it
was contended by Learned Additional Solicitor General that merely because
there may be two compensation laws, which may be applicable, one of which
provides for a higher compensation than the other, would not by itself make
the provisions discriminatory or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.

17.It is settled law that Agrarian Reforms fall within Entry 18/List-II read
with Entry 42/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.

In the instant case, it cannot be denied that KUZALR Act,

18\. 1960 is a statutory enactment, dealing with the agrarian reforms. Section
4 of the KUZALR Act provides that in respect of non-forest land, State
Government may by  Page 11 of 52 notification take over the rights, title and
interests of hissedar. The land so released is then dealt with by giving
bhumidhari rights/asami rights to the tillers and thereby effectuating the
purpose of agrarian reforms.

It is important to notice that Section 4A introduced in

19\. KUZALR Act by the UP Amendment Act 1978 does not require any notification
but it specifies the date i.e. 01st January 1978 and provides that the right,
title and interest of a hissedar in respect of forest land shall cease and
vest by the application of the statute itself in the State Government. Section
8 of the KUZALR Act mandates that such "hissedar" becomes by operation of the
statute a "bhumidhar". The aforesaid amendment was introduced by way of
amendment so as to bring the said act in parity with the Principal Act, namely
UP Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act wherein the rights, title and
interest of an intermediary (hissedar) was abolished and vested with the State
from the very inception of the said Act as such provision was part of the
principal Act itself.

20.Further, Rule 41 of the KUZALR Rules, 1965 framed under the KUZALR Act
declares that the forests belonging to the  Page 12 of 52 State shall be
managed by "Goan Sabha or any other local authority established" upon a
notification issued by the State Government. The Rule 41 of the KUZALR Rules,
1965 reads as follows:-

> "41. Section 41 : Management of land and things belonging to State - At any
> time after the appointed date, the State Government, may, by notification
> published in the Gazette, declare that as from the date to be specified, all
> or any of the following things, namely, -
    
    
    
    
        (i)      lands,   whether   cultivable   or   otherwise,   except 
    
                 land   for   the   time   being   comprised   in   any 
    
                 holding or grove,
    
    
        (ii)     forests,
    
    
    

> trees, other than trees in a holding or in a grove

> (iii) or in abadi,

> (iv) fisheries, Hats, bazars and melas, except hats, bazars and

> (v) melas held on land referred to in Section 7 or which is for the time
> being comprised in the holding of a bhumidar, and Tanks, ponds, ferries,
> water-channels, pathways

> (vi) and abadi sites;

> Belonging to the State, shall be managed by the Goan Sabha or any other
> local authority established for the whole or part of the village in which
> the things specified in clauses (i) to (vi) are situate, subject to and in
> accordance with the provisions of Chapter VII of the Uttar Pradesh Zamindari
> Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, and the rules made thereunder, as
> applicable to Kumaun and Uttarakhand Divisions:

> Provided that it shall be lawful for the State Government to make the
> declaration aforesaid  Page 13 of 52 subject to such exceptions or
> conditions as may be specified in the notification."

> 21\. This being so, it clearly brings out that the vesting of forest land
> under the KUZALR Act are directly linked with the agrarian reforms, as the
> land as also the forest are managed by the Goan Sabha or any local authority
> dealing with the rights of villagers for betterment of village economy. So,
> where the land acquired by the State is to be transferred to a Goan
> Sabha/Village Panchayat for its management and use of land leading to
> betterment of village economy, the legislation is in the nature of agrarian
> reforms.

22\. The aforesaid conclusions arrived at by us find support from the
Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Ranjit Singh and Others Vs. State
of Punjab and Others reported in [1965] 1 SCR 82. In the said decision, the
Constitution Bench has stated thus:-

> "..........The scheme of rural development today envisages not only
> equitable distribution of land so that there is no undue imbalance in
> society resulting in a landless class on the one hand and a concentration of
> land in the hands of a few on the other, but envisages also the raising of
> economic standards and bettering rural health and social conditions.
> Provisions for the assignment of lands to village Panchayat for the use of
> the general  Page 14 of 52 community, or for hospitals, schools, manure
> pits, tanning grounds etc. ensure for the benefit of rural population must
> be considered to be an essential part of the redistribution of holdings and
> open lands to which no objection is apparently taken. If agrarian reforms
> are to succeed, mere distribution of land to the landless is not enough.
> There must be a proper planning of rural economy and conditions and a body
> like the village Panchayat is best designed to promote rural welfare than
> individual owners of small portions of lands...."

It is true that Section 4A of KUZALR Act, 1960, as

23\. amended by the UP Amendment Act 1978, provides that Chapter II and
Chapter V of the KUZALR Act would apply mutatis mutandis and Rule 41 of the
KUZALR Rules is relatable to Chapter IV of the KUZALR Act. However, the
necessary consequence of Section 4A of the KUZALR Act is that the forest land
vests in the State and all that Rule 41 of the KUZALR Rules does is to provide
how the lands vested in the State including forest and non-forest land is to
be dealt with. Thus, Rule 41 of the KUZALR Rules clearly applies to forest
lands as it has been specifically so mentioned in the said Rules as well which
are vested in the State under Section 4A of the KUZALR Act and therefore have
become the land/property of the State, which would be managed by the Goan
Sabha.

Page 15 of 52

Repugnancy and Article 254 of the Constitution Learned senior counsel
appearing for the appellants raised

24\. two contentions in the context of the inter-relation of the Indian Forest
Act 1927 and the KUZALR Act; firstly, the case of alleged discrimination in as
much as the Central Act i.e. the Indian Forests Act provides for compensation
under the Land Acquisition Act 1894, which is higher; and secondly, the case
of alleged repugnancy.

It was submitted that the provisions of Section 18(1)(cc)

25\. read with Section 19(1)(b) of KUZALR Act as amended by the UP Amendment
Act 1978 are repugnant to Section 37 and Section 84 of the Indian Forests Act
1927, in so far as no compensation is provided for under the U.P. Amendment
Act, 1978 for private forests which are preserved and protected through
prudent management, while a private forest which is neglected or mismanaged to
which Section 36 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 applies, can be acquired under
the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 by paying market value and solatium.

However, per contra the Learned Additional Solicitor

26\. General appearing for the respondents contended that the  Page 16 of 52
issue of repugnancy does not arise at all in the instant case as there is in
fact no repugnancy between the Central Act i.e. the Indian Forest Act, 1927
and KUZALR Act in as much as the Central Act and KUZALR Act in pith and
substance operates in different subject matters.

It was submitted by Learned Additional Solicitor General

27\. that once the pith and substance of the aforesaid two legislations viz.
KUZALR Act and the Indian Forest Act, 1927 is examined, the following picture
would emerge:

firstly, the KUZALR Act is an enactment under Entry 18/List-II, i.e. "land"
read with Entry 42/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. It
was further submitted that at the highest, it can be said that KUZALR Act is
relatable to Entry 18 of List II and 42 of List-III of the Seventh Schedule of
the Constitution and if at all, only incidentally trenches in the legislative
field of Entry 17A/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution;

and secondly, the Indian Forest Act, 1927 on the other hand, is in pith and
substance a legislation under Entry 17-A/List-III i.e. "Forests" read with
Entry 42/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.

Page 17 of 52

28.It is trite law that the plea of repugnancy would be attracted only if both
the legislations fall under the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule of the
Constitution. Under Article 254 of the Constitution, a State law passed in
respect of a subject matter comprised in List III i.e. the Concurrent List of
the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution would be invalid if its provisions
are repugnant to a law passed on the same subject by the Parliament and that
too only in a situation if both the laws i.e. one made by the State
legislature and another made by the Parliament cannot exist together. In other
words, the question of repugnancy under Article 254 of the Constitution arises
when the provisions of both laws are completely inconsistent with each other
or when the provisions of both laws are absolutely irreconcilable with each
other and it is impossible without disturbing the other provision, or
conflicting interpretations resulted into, when both the statutes covering the
same field are applied to a given set of facts. That is to say, in simple
words, repugnancy between the two statutes would arise if there is a direct
conflict between the two provisions and the law made by the Parliament and the
law made by the State  Page 18 of 52 Legislature occupies the same field.
Hence, whenever the issue of repugnancy between the law passed by the
Parliament and of State legislature are raised, it becomes quite necessary to
examine as to whether the two legislations cover or relate to the same subject
matter or different.

It is by now a well-established rule of interpretation that

29\. the entries in the list being fields of legislation must receive liberal
construction inspired by a broad and generous spirit and not a narrow or
pedantic approach. This Court in the cases of Navinchandra Mafatlal v. CIT,
reported in AIR 1955 SC 58 and State of Maharashtra v. Bharat Shanti Lal Shah,
reported in (2008) 13 SCC 5 held that each general word should extend to all
ancillary and subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be
comprehended within it. In those decisions it was also reiterated that there
shall always be a presumption of constitutionality in favour of a statute and
while construing such statute every legally permissible effort should be made
to keep the statute within the competence of the State Legislature.

30.As and when there is a challenge to the legislative  Page 19 of 52
competence, the courts will try to ascertain the pith and substance of such
enactment on a scrutiny of the Act in question. In this process, it would also
be necessary for the courts to examine the true nature and character of the
enactment, its object, its scope and effect to find out whether the enactment
in question is genuinely referable to a field of the legislation allotted to
the respective legislature under the constitutional scheme. In the aforesaid
context we now proceed to examine the nature and character of the KUZALR Act
and examine and scrutinize the same in the context of the Central Act, namely,
the Indian Forests Act, 1927\.

As noted hereinbefore, Section 4A was introduced in

31\. KUZALR Act by an amendment in the year 1978 as a part of agrarian reforms
and not by a separate enactment, as was done in the case of the UP Private
Forests Act, 1948.

Significantly, the agrarian reforms introduced by the UPZALR Act were not
brought about by amending the UP Private Forests Act, 1948. It is to be
noticed that the Indian Forest Act, 1927 and the UP Private Forests Act, 1948
that deal broadly with the same field of, inter-alia conservation, regulation,
etc., of forests. It is to be further noticed that  Page 20 of 52 the UPZALR
Act and after the 1978 amendment, KUZALR Act do not deal with conservation or
regulation of forests but with agrarian reforms. In order to find out the
subject matter of an enactment, even in the context of enactments relatable to
List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, passed by different
legislatures, the doctrine of pith and substance can be relied upon and would
apply.

As discussed hereinbefore KUZALR Act is a law principally

32\. relatable to Entry 18 (land) of List II read with Entry 42 in List III of
the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and only incidentally trenches upon
"forest" i.e. Entry 17A/List-III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.
This is so because it is an enactment for agrarian reforms and so the basic
subject matter is "land". Since the land happens to be forest land, it spills
over and incidentally encroaches on Entry 17A i.e. "forest" as well. On the
other hand, the Central Act i.e. the Indian Forests Act 1927 is relatable to
Entry 17A read with entry 42, both of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the
Constitution. It is in pith and substance relatable to Entry 17A, as it deals
with "forests" and not with "land" or any other subject. It only incidentally
spills over in the field of Entry 42, as it deals with "control over  Page 21
of 52 forest land and not property of the Government" and in that context
Section 37, as an alternative to management of forests under Section 36 of the
Indian Forests Act 1927, deals with the grant of power to acquire land under
the Land Acquisition Act 1894\.

This Court in the case of Glanrock Estate Private

33\. Limited v. State of Tamil Nadu, reported in (2010) 10 SCC 96 observed in
paragraph 45 of the Judgment as follows:

> ".............we are of the view that the requirement of public purpose and
> compensation are not legislative requirements of the competence of
> legislature to make laws under Entry 18 List II or Entry 42 List III, but
> are conditions or restrictions under Article 31(2) of the Constitution as
> the said article stood in 1969\. ................ Lastly, in pith and
> substance, we are of the view that the Janmam Act (24 of 1969) was in
> respect of "land" and "land tenure" under Entry 18 List II of the
> Constitution.

It is quite clear that the KUZALR Act relates to agrarian

34\. reforms and therefore it deals with the "land"; however, the Central Act
i.e. the Indian Forests Act 1927 deal with "forests" and its management,
preservation and levy of royalty/fees on forest produce. KUZALR Act further
provides for statutory vesting, i.e., statutory taking over of property of
hissedar, which happens to be 1st January  Page 22 of 52 1978, i.e. the
statutorily fixed date. Therefore, this forest land becomes the property of
the State Government and is dealt with like land, which is acquired under
Section 4A of KUZALR Act. This emerges from a reading of Rule 41 of the KUZALR
Rules itself. Further, the acquisition under the KUZALR Act is a case of
"taking" upon payment of an amount, which is not intended to be the market
price of the rights acquired. On the other hand, the power of acquisition
under Section 37 of the Indian Forests Act 1927 i.e. the Central Act is an
acquisition based on the principles of public purpose and compensation.

Thus, not only do the aforesaid Acts relate to different

35\. subject matters, but the acquisitions mentioned therein are conceptually
different. The Central Act i.e. the Indian Forests Act 1927 mainly deals with
the management, preservation and levy of royalty on transmit of forest
produce. The Indian Forests Act 1927 also incidentally provides for and
empowers the State Government to acquire any land which might be required to
give effect to any of the purposes of the Act, in which case such land could
be acquired by issuing a notification under Section 4 of the Indian Forests
Act 1927. This however is to be understood  Page 23 of 52 as an incidental
power vested on the State Government which could be exercised for giving
effect to the purposes of the Indian Forests Act 1927. While considering the
issue of repugnancy what is required to be considered is the legislation in
question as a whole and to its main object and purpose and while doing so
incidental encroachment is to be ignored and disregarded.

In fact, it is the UP Private Forest Act, 1948, which is an

36\. enactment relatable to Entry 17A of List III, i.e., Forests, read with
Entry 42 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, i.e.,
acquisition to the extent of "vested"

forests. It is this Act which covers a field similar to that of the Central
Act and therefore, sought and obtained the permission of the President under
Section 76 of the Government of India Act.

Thus, in the State, there are two Acts, which are applicable

37\. viz. the UP Private Forests Act, 1948, which is in the same field as the
Central Act i.e. the Indian Forest Act 1927 and the KUZALR Act, which is in
respect of a different subject matter.

38.For repugnancy under Article 254 of the Constitution,  Page 24 of 52 there
is a twin requirement, which is to be fulfilled: firstly, there has to be a
"repugnancy" between a Central and State Act; and secondly, the Presidential
assent has to be held as being non-existent. The test for determining such
repugnancy is indeed to find out the dominant intention of the both
legislations and whether such dominant intentions of both the legislations are
alike or different. To put it simply, a provision in one legislation in order
to give effect to its dominant purpose may incidentally be on the same subject
as covered by the provision of the other legislation, but such partial or
incidental coverage of the same area in a different context and to achieve a
different purpose does not attract the doctrine of repugnancy. In nutshell, in
order to attract the doctrine of repugnancy, both the legislations must be
substantially on the same subject.

Repugnancy in the context of Article 254 of the

39\. Constitution is understood as requiring the fulfillment of a "Triple
test" reiterated by the Constitutional Bench in M.

Karunanidhi v. Union of India, (1979) 3 SCC 431 @ page 443-444, which reads as
follows:-

> "24. It is well settled that the presumption is always in favour of the
> constitutionality of a statute and the onus lies on the person assailing the
> Act to  Page 25 of 52 prove that it is unconstitutional. Prima facie, there
> does not appear to us to be any inconsistency between the State Act and the
> Central Acts. Before any repugnancy can arise, the following conditions must
> be satisfied:

1\. That there is a clear and direct inconsistency between the Central Act and
the State Act.

2\. That such an inconsistency is absolutely irreconcilable.

3\. That the inconsistency between the provisions of the two Acts is of such
nature as to bring the two Acts into direct collision with each other and a
situation is reached where it is impossible to obey the one without disobeying
the other."

In other words, the two legislations must cover the same

40\. field. This has to be examined by a reference to the doctrine of pith and
substance. In the instant case, the KUZALR Act deals with agrarian reforms and
in the context deals with the private forests, this vests with the State and
would therefore be managed by the Goan Sabha. The Indian Forest Act, 1927
which is the existing Central law, has nothing to do with agrarian reforms but
deals with forest policy and management, and therefore is in a different
field. Further, there is no direct conflict or collision, as the Indian Forest
Act, 1927 only gives an enabling power to the government to acquire forests in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act 1894, whereas
KUZALR Act results in vesting of forests from the dates specified in Section
4A of the  Page 26 of 52 KUZALR Act. Consequently, it could be deduced that
none of the aforesaid three conditions as mentioned in the decision of M.
Karunanidhi case (supra) is attracted to the facts of the present case.

The only other area where repugnancy can arise is

41\. where the superior legislature namely the Parliament has evinced an
intention to create a complete code.

This obviously is not the case here, as admittedly even earlier, assent was
given under Section 107(2) of the Government of India Act by the Governor
General to the U P Private Forests Act, 1948.

This Court succinctly observed as follows in Hoechst

42\. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (1983) 4 SCC 45, at page 87:

"67. Article 254 of the Constitution makes provision first, as to what would
happen in the case of conflict between a Central and State law with regard to
the subjects enumerated in the Concurrent List, and secondly, for resolving
such conflict. Article 254(1) enunciates the normal rule that in the event of
a conflict between a Union and a State law in the concurrent field, the former
prevails over the latter. Clause (1) lays down that if a State law relating to
a concurrent subject is `repugnant' to a Union law relating to that subject,
then, whether the Union law is prior or later in time, the Union law will
prevail and the State law shall, to the extent of such repugnancy, be void. To
the general rule laid down in clause (1), clause (2) engrafts an exception
viz. that if the President assents to a State law  Page 27 of 52 which has
been reserved for his consideration, it will prevail notwithstanding its
repugnancy to an earlier law of the Union, both laws dealing with a concurrent
subject. In such a case, the Central Act, will give way to the State Act only
to the extent of inconsistency between the two, and no more. In short, the
result of obtaining the assent of the President to a State Act which is
inconsistent with a previous Union law relating to a concurrent subject would
be that the State Act will prevail in that State and override the provisions
of the Central Act in their applicability to that State only. The predominance
of the State law may however be taken away if Parliament legislates under the
proviso to clause (2). The proviso to Article 254(2) empowers the Union
Parliament to repeal or amend a repugnant State law, either directly, or by
itself enacting a law repugnant to the State law with respect to the `same
matter'. Even though the subsequent law made by Parliament does not expressly
repeal a State law, even then, the State law will become void as soon as the
subsequent law of Parliament creating repugnancy is made. A State law would be
repugnant to the Union law when there is direct conflict between the two laws.
Such repugnancy may also arise where both laws operate in the same field and
the two cannot possibly stand together: See Zaverbhai Amaidas v. State of
Bombay; M. Karunanidhi v. Union of India and T. Barai v. Henry Ah Hoe."

Again a five-Judge Bench of this Court while discussing

43\. the said doctrine in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab, (1994) 3 SCC 589 @
page 630 observed as under:

> "60. This doctrine of `pith and substance' is applied when the legislative
> competence of a legislature with regard to a particular enactment is
> challenged with reference to the entries in the various lists i.e. a law
> dealing with the subject in one list is also touching on a subject in
> another list. In such a case, what has to be ascertained is the pith and
> substance of the enactment. On a scrutiny of the Act in question, if found,
> that the legislation is in substance one on a matter assigned to the
> legislature enacting that statute, then that Act as a whole must be held to
> be  Page 28 of 52 valid notwithstanding any incidental trenching upon
> matters beyond its competence i.e. on a matter included in the list
> belonging to the other legislature. To say differently, incidental
> encroachment is not altogether forbidden."

Further in Govt. of A.P. v. J.B. Educational Society, (2005) 3

44\. SCC 212, this Court while explaining the scope of Articles 246 and 254 of
the Constitution and considering the proposition laid down by this Court in M.
Karunanidhi case (supra) with respect to the situations in which repugnancy
would arise, held as follows at page 219:

> "9. Parliament has exclusive power to legislate with respect to any of the
> matters enumerated in List I, notwithstanding anything contained in clauses
> (2) and (3) of Article 246. The non obstante clause under Article 246(1)
> indicates the predominance or supremacy of the law made by the Union
> Legislature in the event of an overlap of the law made by Parliament with
> respect to a matter enumerated in List I and a law made by the State
> Legislature with respect to a matter enumerated in List II of the Seventh
> Schedule.

> 10\. There is no doubt that both Parliament and the State Legislature are
> supreme in their respective assigned fields. It is the duty of the court to
> interpret the legislations made by Parliament and the State Legislature in
> such a manner as to avoid any conflict. However, if the conflict is
> unavoidable, and the two enactments are irreconcilable, then by the force of
> the non obstante clause in clause (1) of Article 246, the parliamentary
> legislation would prevail notwithstanding the exclusive power of the State
> Legislature to make a law with respect to a matter enumerated in the State
> List.

11\. With respect to matters enumerated in List III  Page 29 of 52 (Concurrent
List), both Parliament and the State Legislature have equal competence to
legislate. Here again, the courts are charged with the duty of interpreting
the enactments of Parliament and the State Legislature in such manner as to
avoid a conflict. If the conflict becomes unavoidable, then Article 245
indicates the manner of resolution of such a conflict."

Thereafter, this Court, in para 12, held that the question of repugnancy
between the parliamentary legislation and the State legislation could arise in
the following two ways: (SCC p. 220) "12. ... First, where the legislations,
though enacted with respect to matters in their allotted sphere, overlap and
conflict. Second, where the two legislations are with respect to matters in
the Concurrent List and there is a conflict. In both the situations,
parliamentary legislation will predominate, in the first, by virtue of the non
obstante clause in Article 246(1), in the second, by reason of Article 254(1).
Clause (2) of Article 254 deals with a situation where the State legislation
having been reserved and having obtained President's assent, prevails in that
State; this again is subject to the proviso that Parliament can again bring a
legislation to override even such State legislation."

The aforesaid position makes it quite clear that even if

45\. both the legislations are relatable to List-III of the Seventh Schedule
of the Constitution, the test for repugnancy is whether the two legislations
"exercise their power over the same subject matter..." and secondly whether
the law of Parliament was intended "to be exhaustive to cover the entire
field". The answer to  Page 30 of 52 both these questions in the instant case
is in the negative, as the Indian Forest Act 1927 deals with the law relating
to forest transit, forest levy and forest produce, whereas the KUZALR Act
deals with the land and agrarian reforms.

46.In respect of the Concurrent List under Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution, by definition both the legislatures viz. the Parliament and the
State legislatures are competent to enact a law. Thus, the only way in which
the doctrine of pith and substance can and is utilised in determining the
question of repugnancy is to find out whether in pith and substance the two
laws operate and relate to the same matter or not. This can be either in the
context of the same Entry in List III or different Entries in List III of the
Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. In other words, what has to be examined
is whether the two Acts deal with the same field in the sense of the same
subject matter or deal with different matters.

47.The concept of repugnancy does not arise as far as the American and
Canadian Constitutions are concerned, as  Page 31 of 52 there is no Concurrent
List there, nor is there any provision akin to Article 254 of the Constitution
of India.

Repugnancy arises in the Australian Constitution, which has a Concurrent List
and a provision i.e. Section 107, akin to Article 254 of the Constitution of
India.

48.In the Australian cases, the concept of Repugnancy has really been applied
in the context of Criminal Law where for the same offence, there are two
inconsistent and different punishments, which are provided and so the two laws
cannot co-exist together. To put it differently, an area where the two Acts
may be repugnant is when the Central Act evinces a clear interest to be
exhaustive and unqualified and therefore, occupies the entire field.

In a Full Bench decision of this Court in the case of

49\. State of Maharashtra v. Bharat Shanti Lal Shah, (2008) 13 SCC 5, this
Court observed as follows at page 23 :

> "48. Article 254 of the Constitution succinctly deals with the law relating
> to inconsistency between the laws made by Parliament and the State
> Legislature. The question of repugnancy under Article 254 will arise when a
> law made by Parliament and a law made by the State Legislature occupies the
> same field with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent
> List and there is a direct conflict in two laws. In  Page 32 of 52 other
> words, the question of repugnancy arises only in connection with subjects
> enumerated in the Concurrent List. In such situation the provisions enacted
> by Parliament and the State Legislature cannot unitedly stand and the State
> law will have to make way for the Union law. Once it is proved and
> established that the State law is repugnant to the Union law, the State law
> would become void but only to the extent of repugnancy. At the same time it
> is to be noted that mere possibility of repugnancy will not make a State law
> invalid, for repugnancy has to exist in fact and it must be shown clearly
> and sufficiently that the State law is repugnant to the Union law."

50.In a nutshell, whether on account of the exhaustive code doctrine or
whether on account of irreconcilable conflict concept, the real test is that
would there be a room or possibility for both the Acts to apply.

Repugnancy would follow only if there is no such room or possibility.

Having discussed the law, as applicable in the aforesaid

51\. manner and upon scrutiny of subject matters of both the concurrent Acts,
it is crystal clear that no case of repugnancy is made out in the present case
as both the Indian Forest Act, 1927 and the KUZALR Act operate in two
different and distinct fields as pointed out hereinbefore. Accordingly, both
the Acts are legally valid and constitutional. That being so, there was no
Page 33 of 52 requirement of obtaining any Presidential assent.

Consequently, Article 254(2) of the Constitution has also no application in
the instant case. However, it would be appropriate to discuss the issue as
elaborate argument was made on this issue as well.

Presidential Assent and Article 254(2) of the Constitution The issue argued
was whether "General Assent" can

52\. always be sought and obtained by the State Government.

Reference was made to a Constitutional Bench decision of this Court in Gram
Panchayat Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh, (1985) 3 SCC 661; which was
subsequently further interpreted and followed in the case of P.N.

Krishna Pal v. State of Kerala, (1995) Suppl. 2 SCC 187.

In the Gram Panchayat Jamalpur case (supra), the

53\. Constitution Bench observed as follows at page 669:

"13. This situation creates a conundrum. The Central Act of 1950 prevails over
the Punjab Act of 1953 by virtue of Article 254(1) of the Constitution read
with Entry 41 of the Concurrent List; and, Article 254(2) cannot afford
assistance to reverse that position since the President's assent, which was
obtained for a specific purpose, cannot be utilised for according priority to
the Punjab Act.

Though the law made by the Parliament prevails over the law made by the State
Legislature, the interest of the evacuees in the Shamlat-deh lands  Page 34 of
52 cannot be dealt with effectively by the Custodian under the Central Act,
because of the peculiar incidents and characteristics of such lands. The
unfortunate result is that the vesting in the Custodian of the evacuee
interest in the Shamlat-

deh lands is, more or less, an empty formality. It does not help the Custodian
to implement the provisions of the Central law but, it excludes the benign
operation of the State law.

14\. The line of reasoning of our learned Brother, Chinnappa Reddy, affords a
satisfactory solution to this constitutional impasse, which we adopt without
reservation of any kind. The pith and substance of the Punjab Act of 1953 is
"Land" which falls under Entry 18 of List II (State List) of the Seventh
Schedule to the Constitution. That Entry reads thus:

"18. Land, that is to say, rights in or over land, land tenures including the
relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents; transfer and
alienation of agricultural land; land improvement and agricultural loans;
colonisation."

Our learned Brother has extracted a passage from a decision of a Constitution
Bench of this Court in Ranjit Singh v. State of Punjab3 which took the view
that since, the Punjab Act of 1953 is a measure of agrarian reform, it would
receive the protection of Article 31-A. It may be recalled that the Act had
received the assent of the President as required by the first proviso to that
article. The power of the State Legislature to pass laws on matters enumerated
in the State List is exclusive by reason of the provision contained in Article
246(3). In a nutshell, the position is that the Parliament has passed a law on
a matter which falls under Entry 41 of the Concurrent List, while the State
Legislature has passed a law which falls under Entry 18 of the State List. The
law passed by the State Legislature, being a measure of agrarian reform, is
conducive to the welfare of the community and there is no reason why that law
should not have effect in its full amplitude. By this process, the Village
Panchayats will be able to meet the needs of the village  Page 35 of 52
community and secure its welfare. Accordingly, the Punjab Act of 1953 would
prevail in the State of Punjab over the Central Act of 1950, even insofar as
Shamlat-deh lands are concerned."

Following the ratio of Gram Panchayat Jamalpur case

54\. (supra) this Court in the case of P.N. Krishna Pal v. State of Kerala,
(1995) Suppl. 2 SCC 187 observed as follows at page 200.

> "14. In Jamalpur Gram Panchayat case3 the facts were that specific assent of
> the President was sought, namely, Article 31 and Article 31-A of the
> Constitution vis-`-vis Entry 18 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the
> Constitution. The President had given specific assent. The Shamlat-deh lands
> in Punjab were owned by the proprietors of the village, in proportion to
> their share in the property of the lands held by them. After the partition,
> the proprietary interests in the lands of the migrants and proportionate to
> share of their lands vest in the Union of India. The question arose whether
> the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1953 prevails over Evacuee
> Property Act, 1950. It was contended that in view of the assent given by the
> President, the State Act prevails over the Central Act. This Court in that
> context considered the scope of the limited assent. Chandrachud, C.J.
> speaking for majority, held that the Central Act, 1950 prevails over the
> Punjab Act, 1953 and the assent of the President which was obtained for a
> specific purpose cannot be utilised for according precedence to the Punjab
> Act. At page 42, placitum `B' to `E', this Court held that "the assent of
> the President under Article 254(2) of the Constitution is not a matter of
> idle formality. The President has, at least, to be apprised of the reason
> why his assent is sought if, there is any special reason for doing so. If
> the assent is sought  Page 36 of 52 and given in general terms so as to be
> effective for all purposes, different considerations may legitimately
> arise."

> Thus it is clear that this Court did not intend to hold that it is necessary
> that in every case the assent of the President in specific terms had to be
> sought and given for special reasons in respect of each enactment or
> provision or provisions. On the other hand, the observation clearly
> indicates that if the assent is sought and given in general terms it would
> be effective for all purposes. In other words, this Court observed that the
> assent sought for and given by the President in general terms could be
> effective for all purposes unless specific assent is sought and given in
> which event it would be operative only to that limited extent."

Further, in the case Kaiser-I-Hind (P) Ltd. v. National Textile

55\. Corporation (Maharashtra North), (2002) 8 SCC 182, this Court made it
clear that it was not considering; whether the assent of the President was
rightly or wrongly given?;

and whether the assent given without considering the extent and the nature of
the repugnancy should be taken as no assent at all? It observed as follows at
page 203:

> "27. In this case, we have made it clear that we are not considering the
> question that the assent of the President was rightly or wrongly given. We
> are also not considering the question that -- whether "assent" given without
> considering the extent and the nature of the repugnancy should be taken as
> no assent at all. Further, in the aforesaid case, before the Madras High
> Court also the relevant proposal made by the State was produced. The Court
> had specifically arrived at a conclusion that Ext. P-12 shows that Section
> 10 of the Act has been referred  Page 37 of 52 to as the provision which can
> be said to be repugnant to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and
> the Transfer of Property Act, which are existing laws on the concurrent
> subject. After observing that, the Court has raised the presumption. We do
> not think that it was necessary to do so. In any case as discussed above,
> the essential ingredients of Article 254(2) are: (1) mentioning of the
> entry/entries with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the
> Concurrent List; (2) stating repugnancy to the provisions of an earlier law
> made by Parliament and the State law and reasons for having such law; (3)
> thereafter it is required to be reserved for consideration of the President;
> and (4) receipt of the assent of the President."

It is in this context, that the finding of this Court in

56\. Kaiser-I-Hind (P) Ltd. (supra) at para 65 becomes important to the effect
that "pointed attention" of the President is required to be drawn to the
repugnancy and the reasons for having such a law, despite the enactment by
Parliament, has to be understood. It summarizes the point as follows at page
215 as follows:

> "65. The result of the foregoing discussion is:

> 1\. It cannot be held that summary speedier procedure prescribed under the
> PP Eviction Act for evicting the tenants, sub-tenants or unauthorised
> occupants, if it is reasonable and in conformity with the principles of
> natural justice, would abridge the rights conferred under the Constitution.

> 2\. (a) Article 254(2) contemplates "reservation for consideration of the
> President" and also "assent".

Reservation for consideration is not an empty formality. Pointed attention of
the President is  Page 38 of 52 required to be drawn to the repugnancy between
the earlier law made by Parliament and the contemplated State legislation and
the reasons for having such law despite the enactment by Parliament.

(b) The word "assent" used in clause (2) of Article 254 would in context mean
express agreement of mind to what is proposed by the State.

(c) In case where it is not indicated that "assent"

is qua a particular law made by Parliament, then it is open to the Court to
call for the proposals made by the State for the consideration of the
President before obtaining assent.

3\. Extending the duration of a temporary enactment does not amount to
enactment of a new law.

However such extension may require assent of the President in case of
repugnancy."

If it is to be contended that Kaiser lays down the

57\. proposition that there can be no general Presidential assent, then such
an interpretation would be clearly contrary to the observation of the Bench in
Para 27 itself where it states that it is not examining the issue whether such
an assent can be taken as an assent.

Such an interpretation would also open the judgment to

58\. a charge of being, with respect, per in curium as even though while
noting the Jamalpur case - (1985) 3 SCC 661, it overlooks the extracts in the
Jamalpur case dealing with the aspect of general assent:

"The assent of the President under Article 254(2) of  Page 39 of 52 the
Constitution is not a matter of idle formality.

The President has, at least, to be apprised of the reason why his assent is
sought if, there is any special reason for doing so. If the assent is sought
and given in general terms so as to be effective for all purposes, different
considerations may legitimately arise. But if, as in the instant case, the
assent of the President is sought to the Law for a specific purpose, the
efficacy of the assent would be limited to that purpose and cannot be extended
beyond it."

Article 300A of the Constitution and Compensation

59\. After passing of the Constitution (Forty Forth) Amendment Act 1978 which
deleted Article 19(1)(f) and Article 31 from the Constitution and introduced
Article 300A in the Constitution, the Constitution (44th Amendment) Act
inserted in Part XII, a new chapter: "Chapter IV - Right to Property" and
inserted a new Article 300A, which reads as follows:-

"No person shall be deprived of property save by authority of law"

60\. It would be useful to reiterate paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Statement of
Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (44th Amendment) Act which reads as
follows:-

> "3. In view of the special position sought to be given to fundamental
> rights, the right to property, which has been the occasion for more than one
> Amendment of the Constitution, would cease to be a fundamental right and
> become only a legal right. Necessary amendments for this purpose are being
> made to Article 19 and Article 31 is being deleted.  Page 40 of 52 It would,
> however, be ensured that the removal of property from the list of
> fundamental rights would not affect the right of minorities to establish and
> administer educational institutions of their choice.

> 4\. Similarly, the right of persons holding land for personal cultivation
> and within the ceiling limit to receive compensation at the market value
> would not be affected.

> > 5\. Property, while ceasing to be a fundamental right, would, however, be
> given express recognition as a legal right, provision being made that no
> person shall be deprived of his property save in accordance with law."

> 61\. The incident of deprivation of property within the meaning of Article
> 300A of the Constitution normally occurred mostly in the context of public
> purpose. Clearly, any law, which deprives a person of his private property
> for private interest, will be amenable to judicial review. In last sixty
> years, though the concept of public purpose has been given quite wide
> interpretation, nevertheless, the "public purpose"

remains the most important condition in order to invoke Article 300A of the
Constitution.

62\. With regard to claiming compensation, all modern constitutions which are
invariably of democratic character provide for payment of compensation as the
condition to exercise the right of expropriation. Commonwealth of  Page 41 of
52 Australia Act, a French Civil Code (Article 545), the 5th Amendment of the
Constitution of U.S.A. and the Italian Constitution provided principles of
"just terms", "just indemnity", "just compensation" as reimbursement for the
property taken, have been provided for.

63\. Under Indian Constitution, the field of legislation covering claim for
compensation on deprivation of one's property can be traced to Entry 42 List
III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Constitution (7th
Amendment) Act, 1956 deleted Entry 33 List I, Entry 36 List II and reworded
Entry 42 List III relating to "acquisition and requisitioning of property".
The right to property being no more a fundamental right, a legislation enacted
under the authority of law as provided in Article 300A of the Constitution is
not amenable to judicial review merely for alleged violation of Part III of
the Constitution. Article 31A was inserted by the Constitutional (1st
Amendment) Act, 1951 to protect the zamindari abolition laws. The right to
challenge laws enacted in respect of subject matter enumerated under Article
31A (1) (a) to (g) of the Constitution on the ground of violation of Article
14 was also constitutionally excluded.

Further, Article 31B read with Ninth Schedule of the  Page 42 of 52
Constitution protects all laws even if they are violative of the Part III of
the Constitution. However, it is to be noted that in the Constitutional Bench
decision in I. R. Coelho v. State of Tamil Nadu (2007) 2 SCC 1, this Court has
held that the laws added to the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, by
violating the constitutional amendments after 24.12.1973, would be amenable to
judicial review on the ground like basic structure doctrine.

64\. It has been contended by ld. senior counsel appearing for the appellants
that the action taken by the respondents must satisfy the twin principles viz.
public purpose and adequate compensation. It has been contended that whenever
there is arbitrariness by the State in its action, the provisions of Article
14, 19 and 21 would get attracted and such action is liable to be struck down.
It was submitted that the KUZALR Act does not provide for any principle or
guidelines for the fixation of the compensation amount in a situation when no
actual income is being derived from the property in question. It was further
submitted that the inherent powers of public purpose and eminent domain are
embodied in Article 300A, and Entry 42 List III, "Acquisition  Page 43 of 52
and Requisitioning of Property" which necessarily connotes that the
acquisition and requisitioning of property will be for a public use and for
compensation and whenever a person is deprived of his property, the
limitations as implied in Article 300A as well as Entry 42 List III will come
into the picture and the Court can always examine the legality and validity of
the legislation in question. It was further submitted that awarding nil
compensation is squarely amenable to judicial review under Articles 32 and 226
of the Constitution of India.

65\. It is the case of the State that the statutory scheme under the UPZALR
Act, 1950 is provided in Section 39(1) (e) in respect of forests. The said
section provides for two methods for computation of compensation, namely, the
average annual income of last 20 to 40 years as provided in Section 29(1) (e)

(i) and the estimate of annual yield on the date of vesting as provided in
Section 39(1) (e) (ii). It was further argued that in respect of KUZALR Act,
the same U.P. Legislature which had the example of Section 39(1)(e)
deliberately dropped the second sub-clause and limited the compensation only
to the average annual income of the last 20 years. From this it was argued
that where there is no annual income, there would be no compensation.

Page 44 of 52

66\. It had been further argued that since the expression "average annual
income" under Section 39(1) (e) (i) has already been judicially interpreted in
the case of Ganga Devi v. State of U.P. (1972) 3 SCC 126 to mean "actual"
annual income and not an estimate, therefore, if the forest land is not
earning any income, then in the statutory formula set out in KUZALR Act, it
would not be entitled to any compensation.

67\. The Government is empowered to acquire land by exercising its various
statutory powers. Acquisition of land and thereby deprivation of property is
possible and permissible in accordance with the statutory framework enacted.
Acquisition is also permissible upon exercise of police power of the State. It
is also possible and permissible to acquire such land by exercising the power
vested under the Land Acquisition Act. This Act mandates acquisition of land
for public purpose or public use, which expression is defined in the Act
itself. This Act also empowers acquisition of land for use of companies also
in the manner and mode clearly stipulated in the Act and the purpose of such
acquisition is envisaged in the Act as not public purpose but for the purpose
specifically enumerated in Section 40 of the Land Acquisition  Page 45 of 52
Act. But, in case of both the aforesaid manner of acquisition of land, the Act
envisages payment of compensation for such acquisition of land and deprivation
of property, which is reasonable and just.

68\. Article 31(2) of the Constitution has since been repealed by the
Constitution (44th Amendment) Act 1978\. It is to be noted that Article 300A
was inserted by the Constitution (44th Amendment) Act, 1978 by practically
reinserting Article 31(1) of the Constitution. Therefore, right to property is
no longer a fundamental right but a right envisaged and conferred by the
Constitution and that also by retaining only Article 31(1) of the Constitution
and specifically deleting Article 31(2), as it stood. In view of the aforesaid
position the entire concept to right to property has to be viewed with a
different mindset than the mindset which was prevalent during the period when
the concept of eminent domain was the embodied provision of fundamental
rights. But even now as provided under Article 300A of the Constitution the
State can proceed to acquire land for specified use but by enacting a law
through State legislature or by Parliament and in the manner having force of
law. When the State exercises the power of acquisition of a private property
thereby depriving  Page 46 of 52 the private person of the property, provision
is generally made in the statute to pay compensation to be fixed or determined
according to the criteria laid down in the statute itself. It must be
understood in this context that the acquisition of the property by the State
in furtherance of the Directive Principles of State Policy was to distribute
the material resources of the community including acquisition and taking
possession of private property for public purpose. It does not require payment
of market value or indemnification to the owner of the property expropriated.
Payment of market value in lieu of acquired property is not a condition
precedent or sine qua non for acquisition. It must be clearly understood that
the acquisition and payment of amount are part of the same scheme and they
cannot be separated. It is true that the adequacy of compensation cannot be
questioned in a court of law, but at the same time the compensation cannot be
illusory.

69\. Further, it is to be clearly understood that the stand taken by the State
that the right, title or interests of a hissedar could be acquired without
payment of any compensation, as in the present case, is contrary to the
express provisions of KUZALR Act itself. Section 12 of the  Page 47 of 52
KUZALR Act, 1960 states that every hissedar whose rights, title or interest
are acquired under Section 4, shall be entitled to receive and be paid
compensation. Further, Section 4A of the KUZALR Act makes it clear that the
provisions of Chapter II (Acquisition and Modifications of existing rights in
Land), including Section 12, shall apply mutatis mutandis to a forest land as
they apply to a khaikhari land. Further, the intention of the legislature to
pay compensation is abundantly clear from the fact that Section 19 itself
prescribes that the compensation payable to a hissedar under Section 12 shall,
in the case of private forest, be eight times the amount of average annual
income from such forest. In the instant case, income also includes possible
income in case of persons who have not exploited the forest and have rather
preserved it.

Otherwise, it would amount to giving a licence to owners/persons to exploit
forests and get huge return of income and not to maintain and preserve it. The
same cannot be said to be the intention of the legislature in enacting the
aforesaid KUZALR Act. In fact, the persons who are maintaining the forest and
preserving it for future and posterity cannot be penalised by giving nil
compensation only because of the reason that they were in fact chose to
maintain  Page 48 of 52 the forest instead of exploiting it.

70\. We are of the considered view that the decision of this Court in Ganga
Devi (supra) is not applicable in the present case in as much as this Court in
Ganga Devi (supra) never dealt with a situation of unexploited forest and the
interpretation of actual income was done in the peculiar facts and
circumstances of the said case. The said case does not deal with a situation
where there could be such income possible to be derived because it was
unexploited but there could be no income derived immediately even if it is
used or exploited. Therefore, the said case is clearly distinguishable on
facts. A distinction and difference has been drawn between the concept of `no
compensation' and the concept of `nil compensation'. As mandated by Article
300A, a person can be deprived of his property but in a just, fair and
reasonable manner. In an appropriate case the Court may find `nil
compensation' also justified and fair if it is found that the State has
undertaken to take over the liability and also has assured to compensate in a
just and fair manner. But the situation would be totally different if it is a
case of `no compensation' at all. As already held `a law seeking to acquire
private property for public purpose cannot say that `no  Page 49 of 52
compensation' would be paid. The present case is a case of payment of `no
compensation' at all. In the case at hand, the forest land which was vested on
the State by operation of law cannot be said to be non-productive or
unproductive by any stretch of imagination. The property in question was
definitely a productive asset. That being so, the criteria to determine
possible income on the date of vesting would be to ascertain such compensation
paid to similarly situated owners of neighboring forests on the date of
vesting. Even otherwise, revenue authority can always make an estimation of
possible income on the date of vesting if the property in question had been
exploited by the appellants and then calculate compensation on the basis
thereof in terms of Sections 18(1) (cc) and 19(1) (b) of KUZALR Act. We
therefore find sufficient force in the argument of the counsel for the
appellants that awarding no compensation attracts the vice of illegal
deprivation of property even in the light of the provisions of the Act and
therefore amenable to writ jurisdiction.

71\. That being so, the omission of the Section 39(1) (e) (ii) of the UPZALR
Act 1950 as amended in 1978 is of no consequence since the UPZALR Act leaves
no choice to the State other than to pay compensation for the private forests
Page 50 of 52 acquired by it in accordance with the mandate of the law.

72\. In view of the above, the present appeal is partly allowed while
upholding the validity of the Act and particularly Sections 4A, 18(1) (cc) and
19 (1) (b) of the KUZALR Act, we direct the second respondent, i.e. Assistant
Collector to determine and award compensation to the appellants by following a
reasonable and intelligible criterion evolved on the aforesaid guidelines
provided and in light of the aforesaid law enunciated by this Court
hereinabove. The appellants will also be entitled to interest @ six percent
per annum on the compensation amount from the date of dispossession till the
date of payment provided possession of the forest was handed and taken over
formally by the Respondent physically and provided the appellant was totally
deprived of physical possession of the forest. However, we would like to
clarify that in case the physical/actual possession has not been handed over
by the appellants to the State government or has been handed over at some
subsequent date i.e. after the date of vesting, the interest on the
compensation amount would be payable only from the date of actual
handover/physical possession of the property in question and not from the date
of vesting. In terms of the  Page 51 of 52 aforesaid findings, the present
appeal stands disposed of. No costs.

.........................................CJI [ S.H. Kapadia ]
............................................J [Dr. Mukundakam Sharma]
............................................J [ K. S. Radhakrishnan ]
............................................J [ Swatanter Kumar ]
............................................J [ Anil R. Dave ] New Delhi,
August 9, 2011.

Page 52 of 52

