

Supreme Court of India

M/S Aristo Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs M/S. Wockhardt Ltd. on 24 November, 1999

Equivalent citations: AIR 2000 SC 3624, 1999 (7) SCALE 617, (2000) 10 SCC 93

Bench: B Kirpal, D Mohapatra, R Sethi

ORDER

1\. Leave granted.

2\. We have heard counsel for the parties at length. The question involved in
this case is whether in the suit for injunction filed by the respondent herein
alleging violation of its trademark the Division Bench of the High Court
should have reversed the finding of the Single Judge and granted temporary
injunction.

3\. In view of the fact that the suit is still pending and taking in to
consideration then nature of dispute between the parties and the state of
evidence, we do not think it proper and appropriate to deal with the matter in
any great detail and to express opinion on the merits of the dispute because
that may prejudice the parties at the time of trial of the suit.

4\. We are here dealing with a case where the respondent, who manufacturing a
drug under the name 'SPASMO-PROXYVON', registered in his favour, filed a suit
for injunction against the appellant herein who was manufacturing and selling
a drug called 'SPASMO-FLAXON'. The Single Judge of the Madras High Court by a
reasoned order vacated the ex-parte injunction in his favour which had been
granted. The said decision was challenged and the Division Bench allowed the
appeal of the respondent and granted an injunction in his favour.

5\. It is the case of the appellant herein that this is not a case where the
trade-mark of 'SPASMOP-ROXYVON' is being violated by the appellant. According
to the appellant the respondent is manufacturing the drug called 'PROXYVON'and
also amilder form of that drug called'SPASMO-PROXYVON'. Similarly, the
appellant is manufacturing the drug called 'FLEXON' and milder version of that
called 'SPASMO-FLEXON'. According to the appellant the use of the word
'SPASMO' is meant to indicate that the drug is meant for the soft tissues. It
is also the case of the appellant that the word 'SPASMO', which is being
objected to by the respondent herein, has been used for several drugs since
long before and after the respondent got its trade mark registered in the year
1977.

6\. The respondent, on the other hand, submits that the words 'SPASMO-
PROXYVON' having been registered in its name the appellant cannot use the word
'SPASMO' in the drug which is manufactured by it.

7\. It appears to us that before an injunction could have been granted it was
necessary for the court to have allowed the parties to lead evidence in as
much as the facts alleged by the appellant herein were not exactly admitted by
the respondent. This could have been done only at the time of trial. Whether
the word 'SPASMO' has been used in connection with medicine since before and
after 1977 is a relevant consideration and there was a dispute between the
parties as to whether any drug using the word 'SPASMO' was still being
manufactured and sold after the respondent had got its trade mark registered
in the year 1977.

8\. In our opinion, therefore, the Division Bench ought not to have interfered
with the decision of the Single Judge who had declined to confirm the ex-parte
injunction which had been issued earlier in favour of the respondent.

9\. We accordingly allow these appeals, set a side the judgment of the
Division Bench dated 30th January, 1999 and direct the appellant to maintain
proper accounts in relation to the manufacture and sale of its drug 'SPASMO-
FLEXON' which accounts statement shall be submitted in the trial court
annually. We make it clear that the observations made in this Judgment shall
not prejudice the parties at the time of trial. The trial court should
expedite the hearing of the suit. Mr. P. Chidambram, learned senior counsel
states that the written statementv will be filed with in eight weeks. In is
further made clear that the parties will be at liberty to change the shape and
colour of the product in such a manner that one product cannot be mistaken for
another.

