

Bombay High Court

Star India Private Limited vs Leo Burnett (India) Private ... on 24 September,
2002

Equivalent citations: 2003 (2) BomCR 655, 2003 (27) PTC 81 Bom

Author: F Rebello

Bench: F Rebello

JUDGMENT F.I. Rebello, J.

1\. Plaintiffs carry on business of acquiring copyrights in cinematographic
films television serials, programmes etc., and also produce and commission
production of television programmes for various television channels. The
programmes so acquired or produced or commissioned, according to the
plaintiffs, enjoy tremendous popularity amongst television viewers in India as
also abroad. The plaintiffs entered into an Agreement dated 9th April, 2000
with Balaji Telefilms Pvt. Ltd., (Balaji) in order to create, compose and
produce 262 episodes of a television serial entitled "KYUN KI SAAS BHI KABHI
BAHU THI".

The terms and conditions of that serial are as set out in the Agreement.
Reliance is placed on Class 6 of the Agreement, based on which it is contended
that the plaintiffs are now the owners of the copyright of the episodes in the
serial so far filmed. Since 9th April, 2000, Balaji has produced episodes of
the serial "KYUN KI SAAS BHI KABHI BAHU THI". Full consideration has been paid
and, thus, the plaintiffs are the exclusive owners of the copyright in this
serial. Balaji's services were engaged by way of contract of service and as
such the plaintiffs are the first copyright owners under Section 17 of the
Copyright Act.

The theme of the serial involves a renowned business house known as Virani
Group, headed by Dhirubhai Virani. Dhirubhai has three sons, Mansukh, Himmat
and Jamnadas and a married daughter Pradnya. The family resides in palace like
bungalow "Shantiniketan" at Juhu. The story involves around Amba Virani, wife
of Dhirubhai Virani, her three daughters-in-law Savita, Daksha and Gayatri and
grand-daughter-in-law Tulsi. Savita's eldest son Mihir marries Tulsi, a simple
girl from an ordinary middle class family, against the wish of his mother, who
wanted him to marry Payal, daughter of a big businessman. The other members of
the family excluding Savita, Daksha and Gayatri are happy with the marriage.
They attempted, after marriage, all possible tactics to create a barrier
between Mihir and Tulsi to break the marriage. Their plans fail. Soon after
marriage Mihir meets with an accident on a business tour. A dead body
resembling Mihir is found at the accident spot. The Virani family believes
Mihir to be dead. At the time of Mihir's death, Tulsi gives birth to a son,
who is named Gautam. Mihir's death brings drastic changes between Savita and
Tulsi. Savita realizes that she should treat her widowed daughter-in-law as
her daughter and help to bring happiness back into her life. The family
decided to get Tulsi remarried. Anupam Kapadia a business partner of Mihir
from England decides to complete the project which was started with late
Mihir. In the course of time Anupam develops liking for Tulsi. The Virani
family thinks that Anupam Kapadia will be a suitable match and, accordingly,
the said marriage is fixed. The other part of the story which results in a
happy ending need not be reiterated. Suffice to say that Mihir is alive. He
had lost his memory which comes back and the family is reunited.

2\. The plaintiffs case is that Balaji for publicizing the title of the film
has devised the original artistic work depicting inter alia the logo and the
title in a peculiar stylized font and containing as its essential features the
words "KYUN KI SAAS BHI KABHI BAKU THI". The artistic work was prepared and
devised by Balaji under an Agreement and as such the plaintiffs have become
owners of the said artistic work. The serial has commenced broadcasting since
July, 2000. Before launching the serial, the plaintiffs had carried out
publicity campaign in the media by inserting advertisements. The original
artistic work and the central characters have been used by the plaintiffs. The
serial it is contended has acquired immense goodwill and reputation in the
minds of the members of public in India so much so that the members of the
public associate the said serial with the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs alone.
In view of the tremendous popularity and goodwill enjoyed by the serial, the
plaintiffs are actively considering using the serial and the characters
therein for the purpose of endorsing products and services for a fee. The
plaintiffs were, therefore, surprised when some time in the third week of
February, 2002, they came across a television commercial for a consumer
product "Tide Detergent". On inquiries the plaintiffs came to know that Tide
Detergent is marketed by defendant No. 2 and was produced by defendant No. 1.
It was the case of the plaintiffs that the comparison of the plaintiffs serial
with the commercial would show that there is substantial copying. Comparisons
are set out in paragraph 12 of the plaint. It is then contended that the
overall impression of any viewer who sees both the works would be that the
subsequent work of the defendants is a copy of the original work of the
plaintiffs, authorized by the plaintiffs and/or licensed by the plaintiffs. An
average person viewing the defendants commercial would immediately notice the
glaring identity similarity between the plaintiffs' serial and the defendants'
commercial and such a person would get an impression that the defendants'
commercial has been authored by the plaintiffs or has been produced under the
permission or licensed by the plaintiffs. Further an ordinary person would get
an impression, that the plaintiffs who are the producers and proprietors of
the serial "KYUN KISAAS BHI KABHI BAHU THI" are whole heartedly and
unreservedly endorsing the product of the defendant No. 2. An average viewer
would, thus, have an unmistakable impression that there is connection in the
course of business and/or trade between the plaintiffs in the said serial and
the defendants' and their commercial. It is also averred that apart from the
serial, acquiring tremendous goodwill and reputation amongst the people of
India, the characters and the said serial have acquired universal renown. The
serial and the characters are identified in the public mind excessively with
the plaintiffs. The public associates the plaintiffs, the said serial, its
characters and Channel Star Plus with each other. On account of having
expended large sums of money in developing the rights in the serial and its
characters the plaintiffs are entitled exclusively to encash upon the goodwill
generated by the serial and its characters and at all material time have
serious intention to encash upon the goodwill and reputation of the serial and
its characters commercially and for profits in various ways. The Defendants by
telecasting/broadcasting the commercial with the title "KYUN KI BAHU BHI KABHI
SAAS BANEGI" with identical characters. Viz., Tulsi, Savita and J.D. are
deliberately and dishonestly seeking to trade upon and misappropriate the
reputation and goodwill of the said serial and its characters. The Defendants
are not entitled to do so without obtaining the prior consent and/or the
permission from the plaintiffs. The Defendants are doing so to attract
patronage of those of the plaintiffs' viewers, who assume a connection in the
course of trade and/or otherwise between the plaintiffs and the defendants'
product and the commercial. The defendants by deliberately and false,
representing a connection between the other commercial and the plaintiffs'
serial and passing off and/or attempting to pass off the defendants'
commercial as being authorized and/or licensed by and/or connected with the
course of business with the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs' popular serial. On
account of this, plaintiffs contend that considerable loss and/or damage is
being occasioned to the plaintiffs due to continuous act of infringement of
copyright and passing off of the copy to the defendants. Compensation in
money, it is contended, would not be an adequate relief.

It is also then contended that the defendants have misrepresented to the
members of the public at large that the defendants have been authorized to
make use of the original artistic literary and musical work and also the
cinematographic film for merchandising the said product of the defendant No. 2
when the true fact is just contrary. By the defendants telecasting the
commercial, and that too, in close proximity to the areas of activity of the
plaintiffs, an erroneous impression has been created that the defendants are
authorized and entitled to make use of the works in the serial. Creation of
such misrepresentation and confusion and probability of apprehension is
apparent, given consideration to the repute of the defendants. Various reliefs
are prayed for and as the matter involves violation of intellectual property
rights and as the Court is the guardian of public interest, injunction must
follow and other reliefs as prayed for.

The motion taken out is supported by the affidavit Sheenaz R. Patel which
reiterates and places reliance on the averments of the plaint.

3\. Defendant No. 2 has filed a reply opposing the grant of relief to the
plaintiffs through an authorized signatory Shefali Chaddha. It is the case of
the defendant No. 2 that it belongs to the P&G group of companies which
carries on business worldwide as a leading multinational group of companies in
the world. The products emanating from P&G group of companies are well known
for its superior quality and technical excellence. The group incurs million of
dollars per year as and by way of advertisement expenditure. The Tide Product
of P&G is one of the leading brands in the world and is the number one selling
brand. It is widely advertised in different media including T.V. as part of
P&G's advertisement campaign. Tide is registered as a trade mark in India
since last several years and is also registered in many other countries.
Defendant No. 1, it is contended, is a well known advertising agency and
defendant No. 2 avails of its services from time to time to create and develop
T.V. advertisement commercials in respect of its various consumer products. In
the year 2001, defendant No. 2 commissioned defendant No. 1 to develop and
create a novel T.V. advertisement commercial in respect of its detergent
product Tide. The overall idea, concept and format of the proposed T.V.
commercial was jointly discussed and developed amongst the representatives of
defendant No. 2 and defendant No. 1. Thereafter Ms. Kumuda Rao, the creative
Director of defendant No. 1 by her own independent labour and skill created a
story board of the Tide T.V. commercial of defendant No. 2, the duration of
which was/is to be of about 30 seconds. The story board was mode in or around
November/December, 2001. Reliance is placed on the story board created. The
whole theme or concept of the commercial is set out in paragraph 9 of the
reply. One Opticus Films were engaged to produce the film. The engaged the
service of the models Muni Jha, Smriti Malhotra and Apara Mehta. The Tide T.V.
commercial with specially created and recorded background music was
shot/filmed at Concorde Studios on or about 7th December, 2001. The post
production quality editing was done in Singapore. It is, therefore, submitted
that the Tide T.V. commercial is an independent creation made at the instance
of and for and behalf of defendant No. 2 for valuable consideration and
independent copyrights therein vest in defendant No. 2. Independent labour,
skill and effort have been expended in the creation of the Tide T.V.
commercial. The duration of the Tide T.V. commercial is of about 30 seconds.
The commercial is not a reproduction or imitation of the plaintiffs' serial at
all and does not infringe any copyright in the serial or any of the
plaintiffs' work. The T.V. commercial, it is contended, is extensively aired
on T.V. channels since January, 2002 and defendant No. 2 has incurred a huge
expenditure. The commercial was submitted for the purpose of airing it on Star
T.V. it was accepted and as such the plaintiffs/its sister concern has
acknowledged that the Tide T.V. commercial was not objectionable. It is
further submitted that there is no copyright in an idea, concept or theme. The
defendants have put the plaintiffs to a strict proof insofar as its contention
that the programme enjoys tremendous popularity. It is further denied that the
alleged artistic work constitutes an original artistic work. The defendants
deny and do not admit that, the work was commissioned by the plaintiffs and
made by Balaji pursuant to the Agreement. The title "KYUN KI SAAS BHI KABHI
BAHU THI" is a commonly known saying/proverb/creation which has not been
devised by the plaintiffs or by Balaji. The manner in which it is written does
not constitute an artistic work and the same is not copyrightable. The
depiction of overlapping bonds in the logo is the age old expression of the
'saas' handing over the keys to the 'bahu'. This portrayal is in the pubic
domain and does not constitute an original artistic work. The defendants
contended that the burden of proof as to advertisement, expenses incurred and
the TRP ratings it is contended is on the plaintiffs which has not been
discharged.

It is also contended that the plaintiffs are guilty of laches, and delay and
of making false allegations. It is, therefore, contended that on this count
alone the plaintiffs would be disentitled to any relief. It is then
specifically denied that the Tide T.V. commercial has been copied, much less
substantially copied, from plaintiffs' T.V. serial as alleged. Defendant No. 2
has denied that the title as depicted at Exhibit "C" of the plaint constitutes
an artistic work or an original artistic work and that the manner in which the
defendants' commercial is depicted in the Tide T.V. is a copy of the
plaintiffs' title or alleged copyright. It is specifically denied that there
is no copyright in the title and, at any rate, it is denied that the
plaintiffs have a copyright. The depiction of overlapping hands in an age-old
custom representing the 'saas' handing over the keys (and thus the
responsibility of the house) to the 'bahu'. This portrayal is in the public
domain and does not constitute an original artistic work. It is specifically
pleaded that the commercial of defendant No. 2 has been independently created
by Ms. K. Rao by her own skill and labour. It is not a copy of the plaintiffs'
serial logo at all. It is specifically denied that the placement and selection
of jewellery or that the title music has been copied as alleged. The models in
the Tide. T.V. commercial were engaged on behalf of defendant No. 2. It is
denied that these models play the same role in the Tide T.V. commercial as in
the plaintiffs' serial. It is also denied that a viewer viewing the serial of
the plaintiffs and the Tide TV. commercial of defendant No. 2 would gather an
overall impression that the Tide T.V. commercial of defendant No. 2 has been
copied from the plaintiffs serial or has been authorized/licensed by the
plaintiffs. It is further denied that an average person would father an
impression that the commercial of defendant No. 2 has been authorized by the
plaintiffs or has been produced under the permission of the plaintiffs or that
an impression would be created that the plaintiffs are endorsing the product
of defendant No. 2. There are other denials. The defendants do not admit that
the serial has acquired by goodwill and/or reputation in India as is alleged
or its popularity on its character. It is the case of the defendants that the
plaintiffs are not entitled to exclusively encash upon the alleged goodwill of
the serial and its characters. It is specifically denied that airing of Tide
T.V. commercial would require any authorization from the plaintiffs for
merchandising purposes.

It is also averred that even assuming that there are some features of
defendant No. 2's Tide T.V. commercial found in the serial, of the plaintiffs,
even then the alleged copying does not amount to a reproduction or substantial
reproduction of the plaintiffs' serial, that is, alleged copying, if any, is
of an unsubstantial part of the serial and, hence does not amount to
infringement. The alleged logo at Exhibit 'C' does not constitute a separate
work or original artistic work. Without prejudice to the aforesaid copyright,
it does not vest in the plaintiffs under Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957
or under Clause 8 of the Agreement. At any event, there is no copying, much
less substantial copying by the defendants in view of the independent creation
of the Tide T.V. commercial. The serial is not identified by the public with
the plaintiffs in the trademark sense, that is, to indicate source or origin
of any goods. The plaintiffs have not established any goodwill in the serial
in itself. For all the reasons contended and considering the annexures to the
reply, the motion should be dismissed.

A rejoinder as been filed by Sheenaz R. Patel dealing with the contentions as
raised in the reply. Insofar as viewing on Star T.V. Channel it is pointed out
that the Tide T.V. commercial was never accepted for viewing on Star T.V.
Channel as set out in paragraph 15 of the rejoinder. I need not advert to the
other averments which are denials of the averments in the affidavit in reply.
Some questions are of course posed in paragraph 45 of the rejoinder. Some
additional affidavits have been filed by defendants placing on record the T.V.
commercials similarly produced and of Sanjay Shet-ty, of Opticus Films who hot
the commercial and of Ms. Kumuda Rao herself. It may be set out that from the
judgments cited, those necessary to be referred to only, have been referred.

4\. From the above pleadings in considering the grant of reliefs as prayed for
by the plaintiffs it will be necessary, to answer the following questions
which have arisen :

(1) Have the defendants by making the commercial film, violated and/or
infringed the plaintiffs' copyright in the T.V. serial "KYUN KI SAAS BHI KABHI
BAHU THI"?

(2) Have the plaintiffs' proved the defendants have infringed the plaintiffs'
artistic work at Exhibit 'C, to the plaint? and (3) Have the plaintiff's
proved that the defendants are guilty of passing off their reputation and
goodwill in the T.V., serial, by misrepresenting the connection between the
plaintiffs and the defendants arid thereby causing damage to the plaintiffs;
and thereby defeating the plaintiffs' character/merchandising rights, etc.?

5\. The first question, therefore, that requires consideration is whether the
defendants' commercial is a copy of the plaintiffs' T.V. serial? The case of
the plaintiffs has been that as owners of the copyright in the film and
considering Section 14(d)(1) of the Copyright Act, the plaintiffs, as the
owners of the copyright in the film, have an exclusive right to make a copy of
the film including a photograph of any image forming part thereof. It is
contended that unlike the U.K. and Australia Copyright Acts, the word 'copy'
is not defined in the Indian Copyright Act and, therefore, recourse must be
had to the technical meaning of the word 'copy'. Reference is placed on the
Oxford English Dictionary and Random House Dictionary of the English Language
as to the meaning of the word 'copy'. It is then contended that the definition
of 'infringing copy' is contained in Section 2(m)(ii) of the Act. Hence,
imitating the film or making another film which bears likeness or striking
resemblance to a copyrighted film would amount to making a copy of the film
and, therefore infringement of the copyright in the film. Assuming that to
establish infringement, copying should be of a substantial part of the
plaintiffs' film, the test of substantiality must be from the point of view of
the infringing work. It is, therefore, the duty of the Court to ascertain
whether a substantial part of the defendants' work consists of a copy of the
plaintiffs work. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Apex Court in R.G.
Anand v. Delux Films and Ors., . It is then contended that substantiality is
not the question of quantity but of quality. The opening sequence common to
each episode and also the peculiar and dramatic high point of the plaintiffs
film is copied and the defendants have saved themselves time, labour and
expense in developing something original. Reliance has been placed on
paragraph 8.26 of Copinger and Skone James on Copyright, Thirteenth Edition,
Reliance is placed on judgments.

On the other hand, on behalf of the defendants, it is contended that the
plaint discloses no cause of action and/or in any event no cause of action has
accrued to the plaintiffs to allege any infringement of the copyright in the
plaintiffs' cinematographic film. Section 14(d) of the Act, it is contended,
specifies only three categories of acts of which the owner of the copyright in
a cinematographic film has exclusive right. Comparison is sought to be made
within Section 14(e) where only three categories of exclusive right are given
to an owner of the copyright in a sound recording. Reliance is placed on
Section 2(f) which defines a cinematographic film. It is then contended that
in contrast to Section 14(d) and (e) are Section 14(a), (b) and (c), which
speak of exclusive rights to the owner of copyright in a literary, dramatic or
musical work. These Sections, it is contended, give an exclusive right to the
owner to reproduce the work in any material form. This is specifically and
significantly absent in relation to a cinematographic film and sound recording
and the exclusive right conferred by the latter sections is to copy the
recording of that particular film/sound. The position becomes clear, it is
contended; if the definition of infringing copy in relation to literary,
dramatic or artistic work is contrasted with the definition of infringing copy
in relation to cinematographic film and sound recording. Contrasting the two,
in the former an infringing copy is the reproduction of the original
copyrighted literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work. In the latter case,
infringing copy is a copy of the film made from the copyrighted film or
recording embodying the same sound recording from the copyrighted sound
recording. The subsequent film/sound recording is not an infringing copy if it
is not copied or made from the same, earlier recording. The expression 'to
make a copy of the film', it is submitted, is to make a physical copy from the
copyrighted film itself and not a reproduction of the copyrighted film, that
is another film which merely resembles the copyrighted film. From the
affidavits of Kumuda Rao and Shetty it is clear that the defendants have not
copied the film but have "made a new film. The only contention of the
plaintiffs is that the film made/shot by the defendants resembles the
plaintiffs' film and, therefore, constitutes reproduction. Reliance is placed
on various judgments. The defendants, alternatively, contend that the
plaintiffs' film and the defendants' film are different. There is no copying
or substantial copying of plaintiffs' work, hence, no question of any
copyright infringement can arise. It is also once again alternatively
submitted that what is to be compared is the 'whole' of the respective works
and 'not part' and if so compared, there is no copying or substantial copying.

6\. It is, therefore, necessary to deal with the submissions as to whether the
commercial film made by the defendants is a copy of the plaintiffs' film.
Firstly, let me refer to the meaning of the word 'copy' as set out in the
Oxford English Dictionary which defines the word 'copy' as under :

"Copy-1, a thing made to imitate or be identical to another, 2. a single
specimen of a publication or issue (ordered twenty copies), 3a. matter to be
printed, b. material for a newspaper or magazine article (sandals make good
copy), c. the text of an advertisement, 4a. a model to be copied, b. a page
written after a model (of penmanship) 1 to make a copy of b (often foil, by
out) transcribe, 2. Into make a copy rather than produce something original,
esp. clandestinely 3. to (foll. by to) send a copy of (a letter) to a third
party, 4. to do the same as; imitate copy-edit edit (copy) for printing."

Similar Random House Dictionary of the English Language defines the word
'copy' as follows:

"Copy-1, an imitation, reproduction, or transcript of an original. 2. written
matter or artwork to be reproduced in printed form 3. text to be read or
heard, as distinguished from pictures to be seen in newspapers, magazines,
television commercials, etc., 4. one of the various examples or specimens of
the same book, engraving, or the like,. 5. Brit, informal (in schools) a,
composition, a written assignment, 6. A archaic something that is to be
reproduced, an example or pattern-7. to make a copy of, transcribe; reproduce,
8. to follows as a patter or model, 9. to make a copy or copies, 10. to make
or do something in imitation of something else."

Section 2(m)(ii) defines 'infringing copy' as follows:

"2(m) infringing copy' means-

(ii) in relation to a cinematographic film, a copy of the film made on any
medium by any means."

Section 14 of the Copyright Act, 1957 for the purpose of the Act defines'
'copyright' to mean the exclusive right subject to the provisions of the Act,
to do or authorize the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work
or any substantial part thereof, namely:

(d) in the case of a cinematograph film:

(i) to make a copy of the film, including a photograph of any image informing
part thereof-;

(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the film,
regardless of whether which copy has been sold or given on hire on earlier
occasions;

(iii) to communicate the film to the public.

It will, therefore, the essential to find out as to the meaning of the word
copy' in the absence of it being defined in the Act. Reference can be made to
Copinger and Skone James on copyright, Thirteenth Edition, at paragraph 3.29,
some portions of which may be reproduced:

"......it has been stated that skill labour and judgment merely in the process
of copying cannot, confer originality and the mere copyist cannot have
protection of his copy. Particularly, therefore, where the reproduction is in
the same medium as the original, there must be more than an exact reproduction
to secure copyright; there must be some element of material alteration or
embellishment which suffices to make the totality of the work an original
work. If the original, in the case of a painting, is used merely as a model to
give the idea of the new work or, in the case of a photograph, merely as a
basis to be worked up by photographic process to something different, then the
net work may be entitled to protection; but, if the result is simply a salvish
copy, it will not protected."

The same Authors in the Fourteenth Edition in paragraph 7.98 have dealt with
"Films". The learned Authors have stated as under:

"It is an infringement of the copyright in a film to make a copy of it, or a
substantial part of it, whether directly or indirectly and whether transiently
or incidental to some other use. This includes making a photograph of the
whole or any substantial part of any image forming part of the film. As with a
sound recording, it is not expressly stated that copying of a film includes
storing it by electronic means but again it is suggested that it does. Again,
the copyright in a film is infringed if the recorded moving images are
directly or indirectly copied but not if the same or similar images are
recorded independently, for example by reshooting the subject matter of the
film. Again, however, underlying works such as the screenplay may be infringed
by such means."

As pointed earlier contrasting Section 14(d) and (e) on the one hand and
Section 14(a),(b) and (c) on the other, in the latter case the owner of the
copyright has exclusive right to reproduce the work in 'any material form.
This is absent and excluded insofar as the former case (cinematograph
film/sound recording). The exclusive right in the former is to copy the
recording of a particular film/sound recording. It is, therefore, clear that
production by another person of even the same cinematographic film does not
constitute infringement of a copyright in a cinematograph film. It is only
when actual copy is made of a film by a process of duplication i.e., by using
mechanical contravance that it falls under Section 14(d)(i). The expression
'to make a copy of the film' would mean to make a physical copy of the film
itself and not an another film which merely resembles the film.

The making of another film is not included under Section 14(d)(i) and such
other film, even though it resembles completely the copyrighted film, does not
fall within the expression 'to make a copy of the film'. Therefore, if the
film has been filmed or shot separately by a person and it resembles the
earlier film, the subsequent film is not a copy of the first film and,
therefore, does not amount to infringement of whole of the copyright of the
first film. The position in the case of literary, dramatic or artistic work
seems to be different. A narrow copyright protection is accorded to a
film/sound recordings than for literary, dramatic or artistic work. The reason
perhaps could be that they have to be original to satisfy the test of
copyrightability, whereas the requirement of originality is absent for
claiming copyright in cinematograph films/sound recordings.

In Telmak Teleproducts (Aust.) Pty. Limited v. Bond International, 1985 (5)
IPR 203, the defendants made, an advertisement film for the same products as
were contained in the plaintiffs' advertising film and the Court found that
the products of the rivals (which were advertised) and the films were also
similar. As the defendants, however, had made their own film, though it was
similar to the plaintiffs' film, the Court held that the making of the
defendants' film was not an act within the categories of exclusive rights
conferred on the copyright owner of the plaintiffs' film. The defendants' film
had been shot and sound recorded by the defendants own agents. The defendants'
film was not copied from the recorded medium of the plaintiffs' film. It was,
therefore, held that the defendants had not made a copy of the plaintiffs'
film. The defendants had not copied the visuals, images and sounds which
together made up the plaintiffs' cinematographic film. The defendants had not
caused the plaintiffs' film to be seen in the public, therefore, there was no
act of the defendants which fell within the categories of exclusive rights
conferred on the plaintiffs by the Act.

In Norowzian v. Arks Limited and Ors., 1996 FSR 394, the English Copyright
Acts of 1956 and 1988 were considered. In this case. It was the plaintiffs
contention that the defendants had made a film purposely resembling the
plaintiffs' film and that the defendants' film reproduced the essential
features of the plaintiffs' film. On this basis, the plaintiffs alleged that
the copyright in their film had been infringed because, according to the
plaintiffs, the making of the defendants' film constituted copying of the
plaintiffs' film. The defence of the defendants was that they had made their
own film and, therefore, there was no copying. The Court after referring to
Modern Law of Copyright and Designs by Laddie Presscott and Victoria, and
Copinger and Skone James on Copyright held that, for the second film to
infringe the copyright in the first film, it had to be an actual copy of the
first film, itself, that in respect of a cinematographic film it is the
recording that is protected from copying and nothing else, that even if the
defendants' film exactly resembles the plaintiffs' film, but if the
defendants' film is a re-shoot of the plaintiffs' film, which reproduces the
essential features of the plaintiffs' film but does not copy the plaintiffs'
film, that is, it is not reproduced from the recorded medium of the
plaintiffs' film, the defendants' film does not and cannot infringe the
plaintiffs' copyright in the plaintiffs film. This decision follows the
decisions of the Australian Courts in Telemak Teleproducts (supra) and CBS
Australia Limited and Ors. v. Telmak Teleproducts (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 1987 (9)
IPR 440. It was thus held that unless there has been a copying of the whole or
part of the plaintiffs' film itself, in the sense of a copying of the
particular recording of that film, there cannot be any infringement of the
copyright. The re-shoot of the film cannot be said to be the copy of the film
for the purposes of infringement.

In Spelling Goldberg Production v. BBC Publishing Limited, 1981 RPC 283. The
defendants had acquired possession of the plaintiffs' film and had made a
physical copy of the plaintiffs' film. It was on these facts that the Court
had held that it was a copy of the plaintiffs' film.

Therefore, considering the terminology used in the Act the facts on record and
the cases discussed it is clear that the defendants made their own film
independently. The film of the defendants, therefore is not a copy and,
therefore, would not amount to an infringement of the plaintiffs copyright in
its film considering the language of Section 14(d) of the Copyright Act.

7\. Then the issue to be addressed is whether there is substantial copying
which would give rise to a cause of action to the plaintiffs. At this prima
facie stage once the view is taken that the defendants' film is not a copy of
the plaintiffs film, it really would not require that this second submission
be considered. However, as it has been advanced, it may be dealt with briefly.
It was contended on behalf of the plaintiffs that the test of substantially
must be from the point infringing the work. Hence, the Court must ascertain
whether a substantial part of the defendants; work consists of a copy of the
plaintiff's work. See. R.G. Anand v. Delux Films (supra). Relying on Copinger
paragraph 8.26 it is also submitted that substantiality is not a question of
quantity but of quality. In the present case the opening sequence is common
each episode and the peculiar and dramatic high point of the plaintiffs' film
is copied and the defendants have saved themselves time, labour and expense in
developing something original. It is further contended that it is immaterial
if the serial runs into 262 episodes and whether it constitutes a single work.
What is material is that the defendants have stolen a substantial part of the
plaintiffs' work. Therefore, whether the plaintiffs work consists of each
episode as a film or whether all 262 episodes constitute a film is really to
beg the question in the present case. It is then contended that the submission
by the defendants that the copyright of the film is infringed only when each
copy is made of the original is based on the decisions of the Australia and
English Courts referred to earlier. Those authorities, it is contended, cannot
be considered considering Section 14(d)(i) of our Act. It is contended that
under Section 14 of the Act the exclusive right to make a copy of the film
includes the right to make a photograph of any image forming part thereof. If,
therefore, a copy of even a single image or frame is made, it amounts to
violation of the plaintiffs' copyright in the film. Copying means and would
include making something which bears a substantial degree of resemblance to
the original. Therefore, even if exact words, scenes or events are not
reproduced, if the plaintiffs show a substantial degree of resemblance or
imitation of the original, copying would be established. What is material is
that skill, labour and judgment in the process of copying cannot confer
copyright and a mere copyist cannot have protection for his copy.

In the instant case the defendants contention is that they have produced
material to show that the plaintiffs' film and the defendants commercial is
not a substantial copy of the plaintiffs' film. The plaintiffs' work is a film
of 262 episodes and of the duration of 5240 minutes equivalent to over 87
hours. The defendants' work is a commercial/advertisement of its product Tide
of about 30 seconds only. The two are entirely different and one can never be
considered to be a copy of the other. The question of infringement of any
copyright of the plaintiffs' film, therefore, does not arise. It has been
factually established from the affidavits on record that the defendants' film
has been made independently. The T.V. commercial of the defendant No. 2
promotes the product Tide detergent. The commercial does not purport to be nor
can be taken by anyone viewing it to be a cinematographic film/serial at all,
much less as the plaintiffs' film. The T.V. commercial has a beginning of
about 8 to 10 seconds as prelude to the Tide detergent T.V. commercial but the
major and real substantial part consists of the Tide detergent. The over all
impact on the viewer which is sought to be impacted is of the Tide detergent.
The defendants have placed on record material to show that the number of the
characters in the film are different The young lady whose remarriage is
proposed is present in the defendants commercial but is absent in the
corresponding part of the plaintiffs' film. The script of the two films is
different. No portion of the dialogues or scenes are common. In the
defendants' commercial the other family members present are opposed to be
proposal of remarriage and the elderly lady raises the hand to strike the
person making such proposal. In this segment of the plaintiffs' film, the
family members present all support the proposal of remarriage. In the
defendants' commercial the young lady, whose marriage is proposed, is already
married with a child and whose husband is alive. She is wearing a mangalsutra
and has a bindi and sindoor on her forehead, which are well established and
recognized symbols and signs that she is not a widow. In the plaintiffs film,
on the other hand, she is believed to be a widow and does not wear such
symbols/signs, The defendants in their commercial seek to create an impact of
the Tide product. The defendants, therefore have expended their own
independent skill, labour and effort in making the T.V. commercial. Insofar as
models are concerned, they are the same in both the films. These models are
professionals and are free to contract. There cannot be, therefore, any act
which would amount to infringement by using the same models. Even if the idea
is borrowed there, can be no copyright in the idea. The test is to compare the
two rival works. Thus seen and compared any applying both the tests
quantitatively and qualitatively the two works prima facie are different and
there is no work of substantial copying or similarity between the two. See Jay
Music Limited v. Sunday Pictorial Newspapers Limited, 1960 (1) All E.R. 703.
Copinger also sets out that where there is some element of material alteration
or embellishment which makes the totality of the work an original work it will
not be an infringement.

The issue then is whether if the whole of the respective works is compared and
not only parts, factually or materially as it stands, is there copying or
substantial copying. I am not at this stage also not considering whether the
"work" as an episode or all the episodes which have to be considered in
totality. Even for arguments sake if an episode is considered as a 'work',
still what is to be compared is the whole work as a single entity. It is not
permissible to split or compartmentalize or dissect the plaintiffs' work into
parts, then seek to compare, such parts against the alleged infringed work.
What is to be seen is the entirety of each work. It may be made clear that I
am not considering an issue whether a particular part of the film or a scene
in the film which may have a striking resemblance, if copied, would amount to
a substantial copying of the film. For this purpose reference may be made to
the decisions in Francis Day and Hunter Limited v. Twentieth Century Fox
Corporation Limited and Ors., 1940 AC 112 (PC); Ladbroke (Football) Limited v.
William Hill (Football) Limited, 1964 (1) WLR 273; Merchandising Corporation
of America Inc. and Ors. v. Harpbond Limited and Ors., 1983 FSR 32; R.G. Anand
v. Delux films and Ors. (supra) and Fritco Lay Limited v. Uncle Chips Private
Limited, 2000 PTC 341. Applying the tests on the material as it stands there
is no substantial copying on facts.

8\. In respect of the contention of the photographs taken from film it may be
noted that the contention is contrary to the plain wording in Section 14. The
section itself speaks about the work or any substantial part thereof. They
also fully, apply to Section 14(d)(i). There is no material on record to hold
that the defendants, have taken a photograph of any image of the plaintiffs'
film. No single image is identical, as even in the first image there are
material differences. The image/still allegedly copied and incorporated in the
Tide T.V. commercial is not a 'photograph' as defined, which provides that
where anything which forms part of or is included in the cinematographic film
does not fall within the definition of photograph. The frame or image which
forms part of a film is excluded from photograph. Such image, therefore, does
not fall within the meaning of 'photograph' in Section 14(d)(i). As the
defendants have not made a photograph of any image of the plaintiffs' film,
the question of infringement by copying the single image does not arise.
Section 16 provides that there is no copyright except as provided under
Section 14 of the Copyright Act or under any law for' the time being in force.
It is no doubt true that the plaintiffs have relied on the Judgment in
Spelling Goldberg Production (supra). I am, however, in agreement with the
defendants that the judgment, can be differentiated for the following reasons:

(1) the wording in the English Copyright Act in this regard is different from
Section 14(d)(i) read with Section 2(s) of the Indian Copyright Act.

(2) in the Spelling Goldberg's case, on facts, it was established that the
defendants had acquired a physical copy of the plaintiffs' film and had made
an actual copy, of a part thereof. Hence, it was held that the defendants had
made a copy of the plaintiffs' film. The position, on facts, in the instant
case is completely different. The defendants have not made a copy of the
plaintiffs' film, but have shot their own film independently. (3) prima facie
the alleged image/still forming part of the defendants' T.V. commercial is not
identical and has material differences, On a perusal of Section 14(d)(i) it is
clear that the contention is contrary to the plain wording of Section 14. The
opening part of Section 14 gives the meaning of 'copyright' as being the
exclusive right, subject to the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957 to do or
authorise the doing of any of the following acts in respect of the work or any
substantial part thereof......

The words 'in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof....' appearing
on the opening part of Section 14 fully applies to Section 14(d)(i). As noted
earlier no photograph of any image of the plaintiffs' film has been taken and
in any event the image/still allegedly copied and incorporated in the Tide
T.V. commercial is not a photograph as defined by Section 2(s).

Section 2(s) provides that where anything which forms a part of or is included
in a cinematographic film does not fall within the definition of 'photograph'
under the Act. Under Section 2(s), 'a frame or image which forms a part of the
film is excluded from photograph'. Hence, such image does not fall within the
meaning of photograph in Section, 14(d)(i). Since the plaintiffs have not made
a photograph of any image from the plaintiffs' film the question of
infringement by copying a single still does not arise. Further, there are
several differences even in the first image which forms part of the
defendants' film. Considering this and as Section 16 of the Act provides that
there is no copyright except as provided in the Copyright Act, 1957 or under
any law for the time being in force, a single image or a single frame taken
from a cinematographic film cannot constitute infringement of copyright as it
is not photograph within the meaning of Section 2(s) and hence not a copy of
the film within Section 14(d)(i).

For all the aforesaid reasons, it is clear that, insofar as contention is
concerned, the plaintiffs have not been able to establish that the defendants
have infringed their copyright by making a copy of their film or a substantial
part of their film. That contention must, therefore, be rejected.

9\. Next submission to be dealt with is the infringement of a copy and
artistic work. At the outset it may be pointed out that the plaintiffs' claim
copyright in an artistic work. This is based on the contract entered into with
Balaji Films. Under Section 17 subject to the proviso, the Author of a work is
the owner of the copyright therein. In the case of an artistic work made by an
Author in the course of his employment subject to the agreement to the
contrary, the person engaging is the first owner of the copyright. In the case
of a photograph taken or a painting or portrait drawn or an engraving or a
cinematographic film made for valuable consideration at the instance of any
person, such person shall in the absence of any agreement to the contrary to
the first owner of the copyright. There is nothing on record to show that the
Author of the artistic work was employed by Balaji under contract of service
to hold that Balaji were the owners of the copyright, who have transferred
their rights in favour of the plaintiffs.

The contention of the plaintiffs is that the artistic work at Exhibit 'C' has
been reproduced exactly by the defendants at Exhibit "E". Under Section 14(c)
the plaintiffs as the copyright owners are entitled to reproduce the work in
any material form including depiction in any cinematographic film. The
plaintiffs have included the, artistic work in their film and as such are
entitled to exclusive right in the said artistic work under Section 14(c). The
defendants by including the work in the commercial have infringed the
plaintiffs' copyright. It is contended that it is the plaintiffs who had
expended time, energy and money in the original. Therefore, the contention of
the defendants that the work is not original is misconceived. It is submitted
that originality merely means effort expanded or that it involves skill,
labour and judgment in its creation. On the contrary no amount of skill,
labour and energy expended in copying will give copyright.

As noted earlier there is no sufficient material which at this stage must
result in the Court coming to or drawing a conclusion as to who is the first
owner of the copy right. At any rate neither Balaji nor the person who has
created the work in favour of Balaji have sued the plaintiffs for violating
the copyright in their work. Considering the number of episodes already
broadcast, it will, therefore, not be possible to accept this contention on
behalf of the defendants that considering Section 55 of the Act the plaintiffs
not being the owners of the copyright are not entitled to sue and seek
reliefs. The plaintiffs have sought to on the Agreement dated 9th April, 2000
under which the plaintiffs are claiming right. By virtue of Article 6(a) and
Article 8 all rights of Balaji have been given/assigned in favour of the
plaintiffs. I, therefore, do not accept the contention of the defendants that
at this prima facie stage the plaintiffs have been unable to show their
copyright in the artistic work.

Is the logo lettering as an original artistic work Section 13(1)(a) of the Act
provides that copyright can subsist only in an original artistic work. The
contention of the defendant is that the logo consisting of the two hands is a
symbol in common use and in the public domain and open to anyone to use.
Reliance is placed on the affidavit of Shefali Chaddha dated 14th June, 2002
and the wedding invitation card annexed thereto. The holding hands it is
contended are a hackneyed and well known form of representing the handing over
of something from one to another and are a commonly used symbol. Prima facie
the question will be whether Author has spent any skill labour, wisdom of his
own in devising the logo, merely taken something available and known to the
public. The defendants have placed some material on record to show that said
work is in the public domain. At any rate at this stage it is not possible to
hold that the artistic work even if original as required under Section
13(1)(a) has been copied, though there are similarities.

Insofar as artistic work claimed in the style of lettering in the title of the
plaintiffs' film it is contended that as it is in common use and in the public
domain and open to anyone to use, the Author has not created the artistic work
by his own skill, labour, wisdom but has merely taken the lettering style from
a pool or source commonly available to all. There is no originality, hence no
copyright. Reliance is placed again on the further affidavit of Shefali
Chaddha dated 14th June, 2002 and the annexures showing the different types of
lettering available to the public from the microsoft programme.

Considering the material on record and the contentions, it is not possible for
this Court at this prima facie stage to come or arrive at a conclusion
considering the contention of the defendants that the logo is a symbol in
public use and domain and similarly so the lettering, and considering the
material produced to consider granting relief as prayed for. The defendants
have been using the artistic work and the logo as their own creation and,
therefore, at the highest and considering the earlier part of the discussion,
damages on this count in the present case would be an adequate answer if the
plaintiffs ultimately, succeed.

The defendants have also submitted that even otherwise there could be no
copyright in the artistic work and style of lettering since they form a part
of the plaintiffs' cinematographic film! As the defendants' work is original
work, there can be no infringement. At any rate, for reasons earlier stated,
at the highest, the defendants, if they ultimately establish and for reasons
earlier stated can be compensated by way of damages.

10\. That brings us to the last issue of passing off. On behalf of the
plaintiffs it is contended that passing off is a single common cause of action
which can apply, to an extremely wide range of factual situations. Being a
cause of action available in common law, the Court will guide itself on basis
of strong common sense approach to the facts of each case. It is contended
that the Courts must adopt the tort of passing off to fit changing situations.
In the instant case it is contended by the plaintiffs' that the motive for the
defendants misappropriation of the plaintiffs' goodwill is obvious. The
defendants have attempted to encash the goodwill generated by the plaintiffs
serial to boost the sale of the defendants' product. This is actionable per
se. If such conduct is not injuncted, it would amount to a licence to every
defendant in the case like the present to appropriate the benefit of goodwill
assiduously built up by another. The law of passing off, it is contended, is
meant to counter precisely such conduct.

The classic submission of passing off, it is contended requires (a) existence
of goodwill or reputation attached to the plaintiffs' serial and characters in
the serial in the minds of the public viewers; (b) misrepresentation by the
defendants to the public such as is likely to lead the public to believe that
either their is a business transaction/association between the serial's
character or the commercial or that the serial and the characters in the
serial endorse and/or approve the defendants product Tide detergent, and (c)
that the plaintiffs have suffered or are likely to suffer loss or damage by
reason of the defendants appropriation of the plaintiffs' goodwill or
reputation.

Dealing with the requirement of goodwill or reputation, it is contended that
is evidenced by the tremendous popularity of the plaintiffs' serial as is
evidenced its continuance on television since July, 2000 till date both in the
serial and in the characters. In the minds of the television viewing public
the serial and the characters enjoy tremendous goodwill and reputation. This
is established by the fact that the film has achieved highest TRP compared to
any other television serial. The plaintiffs are the owner of the goodwill and
reputation generated by the said serial and the characters therein. The
goodwill and reputation is a merchandising commodity and can be exploited by
the plaintiffs alone. The fact that the defendants 'Chose to copy the
plaintiffs' film is best evidence of goodwill of the plaintiffs' and its
serial characters. On the issue of misrepresentation by the defendants, it is
pointed out that the defendants by using the characters from the plaintiffs'
serial viz., Tulsi, Savita, J.D. Uncle in the defendants advertisement, the
defendants have misrepresented to the public that the original J.D., Savita
and Tulsi are appearing in the defendants programme. By doing this, the
defendants' are implying a connection between the plaintiffs' characters and
the defendants' commercial. It is contended that these characters have
acquired an everyday bearing and reputation which now casts beyond the serial
is established, by the long run of the serial and the defendants' action in
misappropriating these characters. The only reason for doing this is to
attract the patronage of those who would confuse them in someway with that of
Tulsi, Savita and J.D. and the plaintiffs' serial. The defendants are,
therefore, misrepresenting to the public by adopting a fraudulent device of
encashing the goodwill, painstakingly built up by the plaintiffs. Considering
the enormous goodwill and publicity enjoyed by the plaintiffs' serial, the
confusion in the minds of the public is inevitable.

It is theft submitted that the appropriation by the defendants of the
plaintiffs' characters and representing a connection between their commercial
and the characters therein, is bound to cause loss and of damage to the
plaintiffs directly by way of loss in merchandising inasmuch as the, owner of
such characters and the, serial would have been able to merchandise
characters. The defendants by making use of the characters for use of a
commercial and unauthorizedly are utilizing the goodwill of the plaintiffs'
characters without paying in licence fees to the plaintiffs and without the
plaintiffs' permission. The defendants therefore have deprived the plaintiffs
of such licence fees and merchandising profits. Further, as the plaintiffs
have no control of the quality over the defendants product any inadequacy or
shortfall in the same would rub off directly on the plaintiffs. The defects in
the defendant's commercial could in the long run adversely affect the
plaintiffs and the plaintiffs' serial. As the Court in the passing off action
is concerned with 'likelihood damages', it is submitted that there is
sufficient cause for loss and damage made out by the plaintiffs. Reliance in
support thereof has been placed in the case of Shaw Brothers (Hong Kong) Ltd.
v. Golden Harvest (Hong Kong) Ltd., 1972 RPC 559; Hexagon Pty. Ltd. v.
Australian Broadcasting Commission, 1976 RPC 628 and Mirage Studios and Ors.
v. Counter-Feat Clothing Company, 1991 FSR 145.

It is then submitted that the tort of passing off is wide enough to take
within its fold the deceitful and dishonest action of stealing the goodwill of
another for commercial gain so as to mislead the public. The tort of passing
off is not static but is developing tort and it is incumbent upon the Court to
mould the relief in a given case to accord with the changing times Placing
reliance on Shaw Brothers (Hong Kong) Ltd., (supra) it is contended that the
Hong Kong Full Court rightly relied upon the decisions of the U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in the Lone Ranger inc. cases wherein it was observed as
follows:

"In all, the effect of the advertisement is to create the impression that the
original 'Lone Ranger', made famous by radio programmes is appearing with the
circus......"

It was a U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals which pointed out that :

"......any advertisement that he is the 'Lone Ranger' must be avoided, as must
any other language tending to imply connection with the 'Lone Ranger' of
plaintiffs' radio programme of any form of advertising which would lead the
public to believe that there is such connection."

These observations of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, it is contended,
stand good for the present case also. Reference in the same judgment is also
made to the following observations:

"The principle is applicable that not only must one tell the truth but he must
tell it in a truthful way, that is, so as not to deceive the public."

"We entertain no doubt as to the power and duty of a Court of equity to afford
relief under such circumstances.......that a Court of equity should enjoin any
form of 'passing off which involves fraudulent appropriation, through devices
calculated to deceive or mislead the public, of the business or goodwill which
another has built up."

It is also contended that the defendants conduct is fraudulent in the extreme.
The defendants have not only and deliberately appropriated to itself what is
essentially the characters and symbols of the plaintiffs' serial so as to
attract the public, but are doing so for commercial gain. The defendants wish
to boost the sale of their products by encashing the goodwill of the
plaintiffs. A more fraudulent case than the present case would be difficult to
find given the fact that the defendants are a large multinational Company and
are well advised. It is all the more obvious that there is no innocence in the
action of the defendants. Reliance is placed on the observations by Judge
Murphy in the second Lone Ranger case, which are as under :

"Where a defendant expressly and deliberately commits a fraud by representing
that his goods or services are those of the plaintiff, or that plaintiff is in
some way connected with or interested in his business, equity will grant
relief. Even in the absence of express and deliberate fraud equitable relief
will be granted where there is shown bad faith on the defendant's part, i.e.,
an intention of the defendant to gain advantage from the reputation and
goodwill of the plaintiffs trade-mark or trade-name.....":

Coming to the test of common field of activity, it is contended, that there is
no necessity for both the parties to be in the same field of activity.
Reliance is placed on Kirloskar Diesel Recon. (P.) Ltd. and Ors. v. Kirloskar
Proprietary Ltd. and Ors., 1997 (17) PTC 469, to contend that this Court has
rejected the requirement that there should be common field of activity in
determining whether there was any passing off. Reliance is placed on the
following observation:

"With the passage of time, law on requirement of common field of activity in a
passing off action has radically changed. There is no requirement for a common
field of activity to found a claim in passing off."

It is pointed out that in Kirloskar's case this Court approved the decision in
Mirage Studios and Others (supra) where Browne-Wilkinson, V.C. observed as
under:

"The so-called requirement of law that there should be a common field of
activity is now discredited. The real question in each case is whether there
is a result of misrepresentation a real likelihood of confusion by deception
of the public and consequent damage to the plaintiff. The focus shifted from
the external objective test of making comparison of activities of parties to
the state of mind of public in deciding whether it will be confused."

If this test of 'state of mind of public' is applied, it will be clear that
the public associates the characters Tulsi, Savita and J.D. with the
plaintiffs' serial alone. The presence of these characters acted by the same
actors in the defendants' commercial will lead to an inference that there is a
connection between the plaintiffs serial and the defendants commercial and in
any event, will mislead the public in believing such a connection. This is
actionable per se.

It is then contended that the plaintiffs' case of passing off is also based on
debasement and erosion of its goodwill. It is pointed out relying on the
judgment of the Delhi High Court in Daimler Benz Aktiogosellschit v. Hybo
Hindustan, , and approved by this Court in Kirloskar's case (supra), trademark
law is not intended to protect a person who deliberately sets out to take
advantage of somebody's reputation. It is the submission of the plaintiff that
in the instant case the defendants have calculatedly taken the risk of
utilizing the goodwill of the plaintiffs' serial in the hope that no action
will be taken by the plaintiffs. Referring to the pleadings it is pointed out
that plaintiffs have mentioned about Star Plus Channel alongwith themselves
and the said serial, the paragraph itself would clarifying that the owners of
the goodwill in the serial and the fictional characters in it are the
plaintiffs. The submission that Star Plus is the owner of the goodwill and not
the plaintiffs is misconceived. It is well known that in a given case, the
plaintiff himself may be unknown to customers, it is necessary to show to the
customer who knew whatsoever about the plaintiff. It is sufficient to prove
that the purchaser of his goods recognised, by the use of the marks in
question in connection with them, that they were goods of a particular class,
and to show that such class is, in fact, constituted by his goods. See
paragraph 16.32 of Kerry's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names-12th Edition.

It is, therefore, submitted that the plaintiffs have established that
fictional characters can enjoy goodwill and the goodwill in such fictional
characters belong to the owner of the serial. Adverting to the defendants'
submission that no passing off action will lie until the plaintiffs involve
themselves in any character merchandising and merchandising the characters it
is contended is misconceived. The judgments relied upon by the defendants, it
is contended, are based on the hard line of approach to goodwill. English
Courts in approach to goodwill as the basis of passing off have consistently
taken a hard line view to the effect that unless the plaintiffs themselves
carry on the very business of which act complaint is made in a suit, there is
no risk of confusion and hence no passing off. This line of cases it is
contended has been disapproved and not following in India. A Division Bench qf
the Madras High Court in Haw Par Bros. v. Tiger Balm Co., 1996 PTC 311,
inspite of the Judgment in The Athletes Foot Marketing Associates Inc. being
cited, granted the injunction. Similarly a Division Bench of the Delhi High
Court in Rob Mathys India Pvt. Ltd. v. Synthes Ag. Chur, 1997 PTC 699, has
expressly observed that Courts in India have not adopted this line of
reasoning. It is then contended that the decision of Oliver J., in Lingstad
and Ors. v. Anabas Products Ltd., 1997 FSR 62, is peculiar to the facts of
that case and would not be good law in India. This decision follows Watson
J's., earlier decision in Tavener Rutledge Ltd.

11\. On the other hand, on behalf of the defendants, it is contended that in
order to succeed in a case of passing off, the plaintiffs must establish the
test as laid down by Lord Diplock in Advocaat's case. The three classic tests,
required and which can give rise to a cause of action are absent. The
plaintiffs' own case is as pleaded in paragraph 19 of the plaint wherein it is
set out that the public associated the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs' serial
their characters and Star Plus with each other. The plaintiffs' serial is
shown on Star Plus Channel which is not owned by the plaintiffs. Goodwill does
not accrue to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have no goodwill or reputation.
It is the case of the plaintiffs that their serial/film is associated
exclusively with the Star Plus Channel by the public. It means that the public
is aware that the plaintiffs' cinematographic film/serial is available and can
be seen only on the Star Plus Channel and no where else and the Star Plus
Channel alone is associated with and broadcasts the plaintiffs' serial. The
defendants Tide T.V. commercial, to it contended, is not aired or broadcasted
on the Star Plus Channel at all. Therefore, when the public sees the
defendants Tide commercial on any other channel, the question of the public
associating the defendants' commercial with the plaintiffs film/serial cannot
and does not arise, on the plaintiffs own case and averments in paragraph 19
of the plaint. This rules out any possibility or likelihood of the one being
taken by the other or of the public being, misled of one with the other or the
public having association with the other. The plaintiffs, therefore, fail in
the alleged claim of passing off on their own case and averments in the
plaint.

12\. It will, therefore, be essential to examine whether the plaintiff has
established the basic ingredients giving rise to a cause of action in a case
of breach of the tort of passing off. The three predicates to be established
may be reiterated as under:

(1) The plaintiffs goodwill and reputation, in the mark amongst the public (2)
The defendants misrepresentation that the article is that of the plaintiffs;
and (3) Actual, damages or real likelihood of damage to the plaintiffs by the
defendants' act.

The two items being considered are prima facie different-one a serial of
several episodes to the knowledge of the public and the other a fleeting
commercial of totally 30 seconds, of which the breach complained of is only of
10 seconds. In the commercial, the Tide detergent is prominently featured. A
member of the public mistaking the film/serial for the T.V. commercial or the
T.V. commercial of 30 seconds for the film/serial or believing some
association amongst the two or its characters is too fanciful, farfetched at
least at this stage there is no material. The plaintiffs' work consists of a
film which is a long soap opera and on the plaintiffs own averment is so
popular that the public knows what the serial is about. The defendants' T.V.
commercial, on the other hand, is of 30 seconds duration of which 20 seconds
promote the 'defendants' product Tide detergent. The defendants' commercial is
for promotion their own product 'Tide' under these circumstances prima facie
it cannot be mistaken for the film/serial of the plaintiffs. The defendants
have not presented their commercial as a film/serial. In these circumstances
it is debatable whether any member of the public is likely to believe it to be
so. The test always obviously is of a 'prudent person'. [See R.G. Anand
(supra)] for a thing to be passed off. If this test is applied of a normal,
prudent person, would such prudent person be confused and will take one for
the other. See Francis Day and Hunter Ltd. v. Twentieth Century Fox
Corporation Ltd. and Ors., 1940 A.C. 112 (P.C.); R.G. Anand (supra), Green v.
Broadcasting Corporation of New Zealand 1989 RPC 469, Miss World (Jersey)
Limited and Anr. v. James Street Productions Limited and Ors., 1981 FSR 309
and Dicks and Yates, (1881) 18 Ch. D. 76.

Considering these decision, what the Court must apply and consider are not
merely hypothetical or fanciful possibilities but to consider the real
probabilities and the practicalities of the situation. Thus compared the work
of the plaintiffs which altogether will be about 87 hours duration or a single
episode of 30 minutes shown on the Star Plus Channel and the other a T.V.
commercial of 30 seconds never shown on Star Plus Channel with Tide detergent
being the focus and dominant part thereof, the question of being passed off
for the other or of one being associated with the other or the public being
misled or confused in any manner to believe one to be the other or even
associating the defendants' commercial with the plaintiffs or their serial or
the characters therein is very much doubtful. It is, therefore, clear
considering the material on record and the test of a prudent person, it is not
possible that a reasonable person or the public would be misled or confused in
any manner to believe and/or associate the defendants' commercial with the
plaintiffs' cinematographic film and or the characters therein.

The second predicate which is to be considered is whether the defendants are
guilty of misrepresentation and thereby occasioned damage to the plaintiffs or
possibility of damage. The plaintiffs' serial is a film which has its viewers
and which is not telecast on the same Channel as that of the defendants'
commercial. It is only in the event those watching the plaintiffs' film happen
also to come across the defendants' commercial, an occasion would arise of
misrepresentation. The defendants' commercial cannot in anyway affect the
viewership of the plaintiffs' film or the potential TRPs or sponsorship
value/possibilities thereof. Therefore, the possibility of any damage caused
not any likelihood of damage, much less of real damage being caused, or too
remote. The field which the plaintiffs' serial occupies as a film/soap opera
is different from the field of defendants' commercial that of an advertisement
of detergent Tide. While the field of activity being common is not an
essential element of passing off, the field, of activity whether it is the
same or different, is always a relevant consideration to determine the
question. See Kerry's Thirteenth Edition, paragraph 14.75 to 14.77. A Division
Bench of this Court in Aktiebolaget Volvo of Sweden v. Volvo Sheets Limited of
Gujarat (India), 1998 IPLR 63, has observed that the absence of common field
of activity therefore is not fatal but it is not relevant either in deciding
whether there is a likelihood of confusion. It is an important and highly
relevant consideration. This Court further observed that the crux of passing
off action lies in a possible deception. The existence of common field of
activity is always a relevant consideration. If there is a common field of
activity, possibility of deception is very high and if there is no common
filed, of activity, possibility is less but it cannot be laid down as a rule
of law that there can be no possibility at all. Considering this aspect, there
is no material on record, at least at this stage, to arrive at a conclusion
that the plaintiffs have satisfied the essential pre-requisite of damage. If
that be the case and as no passing off arises and as such no injunction can be
granted. See Merchandising Corporation of America Inc. and Ors. v. Harpbond
Limited and Ors., 1983 FSR 32.

I then come to the third ingredient required, namely, reputation. The
plaintiffs' claim to reputation is a reputation in the film/serial as a
film/serial. It is no doubt true that, according to the plaintiffs' own
averment, it is linked to the Star Plus Channel. Assuming it not to be so, the
burden lies on the plaintiffs that they have a reputation which exists. The
plaintiffs' claim to reputation is based on the film and characters. The
reputation does not extend to or separately exist in any particular person or
dialogue in or part of a serial so that any member of the public would
associate any particular incident or script or word or sentence or scene in
the film with the plaintiffs alone. There is no such material on record. It is
not the plaintiffs' case that a member of the public on seeing elsewhere a
scene or incident similar to one in the plaintiffs film will think that what
he has seen elsewhere is the plaintiffs' film is necessarily associated with
the plaintiffs' serial or is put out by the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have no
monopoly over such incidents/scenes and at least no evidence has been produced
to establish this, which is purely a question of fact. The entire case of the
plaintiffs is based on an incident in one of the episodes of the film. The
incident is an ordinary serial one in a family. It is not exclusive or
particular to the plaintiffs' film. Probably the public view the scene without
any regard to its source and solely, as a part of the defendants work
promoting the product 'Tide'. At any rate, there is no material, at this
stage, to hold that the public associates the defendants' commercial Tide
detergent as coming from or of the plaintiffs. The case of the plaintiffs is,
as of today, that they have not endorsed any products based on the serial or
its characters. The necessary element of citation required has, therefore, not
been established as such, the plaintiffs would not entitled to reliefs as
prayed.

Let me now independently deal with the claim of passing off on the basis of
character merchandising. Are there sufficient pleadings in the plaint to base
a claim of character merchandising. The case of passing off has to be
established on facts and essential basis must be the pleadings in the plaint.
However, there are some averments which possibly can enable the plaintiffs to
argue the tort of merchandising. In fact it has been argued at the bar and
parties have been heard. In this context I propose to deal with the issue
based on the material and arguments advanced. The serial has been running for
over two years. It is not the case of the plaintiffs that till date they have
done any character merchandising in relation to the film or serial or that
they have entered into any agreement for that purpose. The entire claim is
based on potential for character merchandising. The case of the plaintiffs as
pleaded in paragraph 10 of the plaint is that they are considering using the
serial and the characters therein for the purpose of endorsing products and
service for a fee. Reliance is placed in the judgment of The Atheletcs Foods
Marketing Associates Inc. v. Cobra Sports Limited and Anr., 1980 RPC 343. In
that case the plaintiffs carried on business in the U.S.A. and elsewhere in
which they granted franchises to independent stores to carry on business in
the supply of footwear to athletes under the name 'The Athlete's Foot'. The
first defendants carried on business as retailers of shoes in the name of
'Athlete's Foot Bargain Basement'. A prospective franchisee in U.K. had even
gone so far as to order goods and stationery with a view to establishing a
chain of stores under the name The Athlete's Foot' in the U.K. In this case
really what was in issue was an action in passing off and not really character
merchandising., We may then consider the case in Tavener Rutledge Limited v.
Trexapalm Limited, 1975 FSR 479. The plaintiff Company in that case was using
the word "Kojakpops" as a brand name for its lollipops. Other manufacturers
had adopted similar names but had ceased to do so shortly before the defendant
Company came on to the market. "Kojak" was the name of a television series,
the leading (fictitious) character being a detective who had the habit of
sucking lollipops. The plaintiff Company did not have a licence to use the
name from the proprietors of the television series. The defendant Company,
which claimed that it did have such a licence, began to sell the lollipops
under the brand name "Kojak Lollies". The plaintiff commenced an action. The
question posed was, do those two fields of activity interest in any such way
as would enable the Universal City Studios to claim that, by putting out their
lollipops as "Kojakpops", the plaintiffs were infringing any right of
Universal City Studios? The Court observed in its judgment, the answer to that
is in the negative, because there is no relevant field of activity either
actual or existing in the mind of the public which is common to both of them.
The Court observed further that the business of what is called character
merchandising, has become very well known in our present times and everyone
who has a character, whether real or fictional, to exploit, does so by the
grant of licences to people who wish to use the name of the real or fictional
character, but when one has a fictional character such as Kojak, obviously
Kojak in that sense does not exist and no one would imagine that the lollipops
put out by the plaintiff Company have been actually endorsed by Kojak, still
less by the actor who plays the fictional character. The Court observed that
what has to be established is that he had become well known that people in the
situation of licensers of these names exercised quality control over any
product bearing their name, so that as soon as anyone in the street came to
the conclusion that a product was licensed by the owners of some series, such
as the Kojak series, he would say to himself not only. "This must have been
licensed by them", but also; "and that is a guarantee of its quality".

In BBC Worldwide Ltd. and Anr. v. Patty Screen Printing Ltd. and Ors., 1998
FSR 665, the action for passing off was of the product Teletubbies, on the
grounds that the plaintiffs had built up a reputation in relation to the
merchandising of the Teletubby characters and that the goods of the defendants
would lead to deception of the public or, alternatively, it would amount to
putting instruments of deception into the hands of the other defendants which
would in turn lead to the deception of the public into believing that the
products of which complaint has been made in the action are products of, or
associated with, or put out with the authority of the plaintiffs. The question
the Court answered was as under:

"It seems to me the it inevitably must be a question of fact whether or not
members of the public seeing the T-shirts in issue will be deceived. To
succeed on this part of the case the plaintiffs will need to show that they
have built up the necessary reputation so that members of the public would
look at this type of artwork and consider it to represent the plaintiffs or
products made with the plaintiffs' approval......".

Children's Television Workshop Inc. v. Woolworths (N.S.W.) Limited, 1981 RPC
187, is a judgment of the Supreme Court of New South Wales-Equity Division. It
was about a charter "Muppet". The issue before the Court was that there were
numerous Muppet products on the market in Australia all of which had been made
under licence from the first plaintiff. The third plaintiff was a potential
licensee for Muppet characters in the form of plush toys. The defendants sold
certain plush toys which had physical characteristics similar to those of the
Muppet characters "Oscar the, Grouch". "Big Bird" and "The Cookie Monster",
which had not been made under licence from the first plaintiff. On the grant
of interim relief the Court held that the toys sold by the defendants would be
taken by the public to be toy representations of the Muppet characters; that
the first plaintiff had established a business reputation in Australia in
relation to toys. The Muppet characters were only recognised because they were
"out of the first plaintiffs' show and there was an association in the minds
of the public between the first plaintiff and the representations of its
characters in any form, and certainly in toys of the present sort, and that
established the reputation of the first plaintiff in them; the third plaintiff
has no such reputation; until it established itself as licensee and carried on
business in this field it would not be proper to assume an association between
it and the sale of the Muppet characters as would entitle it to claim that the
defendants' toys were being passed off as products emanating from it or as
products made under its licence; that the defendants and the plaintiffs were
operating in a common field of business activity. The business of the
plaintiffs, and that of the first plaintiff in particular, was to get its
character reproductions on to the, market in various forms and sold to the
public; this was done through licensing arrangements which generated revenue.
The business of the defendants was to get goods on to the market. As far as
passing off was concerned, it did not matter that in the former case the goods
came on to the market via a licensing arrangement; and the activities of the
defendants were likely to lead to confusion and deception. The deception was
that the public would believe that the first plaintiffs as a licensor were
associated with the defendants in putting the goods on to the market or in
permitting the defendants to sell them.

Considering the test applied in the various judgments, there is no evidence
whatsoever of any member of the public associating any particular character in
the serial as being associated exclusively with the plaintiffs, when that
character is being used otherwise than in the course of the film as a
character therein and in connection with any other business or product. There
can be and is no evidence to this effect because, admittedly, the plaintiffs
have not done any character merchandising. As there is no evidence which is a
pre-requisite for passing off action, the plaintiffs action must fail on that
count.

Character merchandising involves the exploitation of fictional characters or
the fame of celebrities by licensing such famous fictional characters to
others. The fictional characters are generally drawings in which copyright
subsists, e.g., cartoon and celebrities are living beings who are otherwise
very famous in any particular field, e.g.; film stars, sportsmen. It is
necessary for character merchandising that the characters to be merchandised
must have gained some public recognition, that is, achieved a form of
independent life and public recognition for itself independently of the
original product or independently of the milieu/area in which it appears. Only
then can such character be moved into the area of character merchandising.
This presumes that the character has independently acquired such reputation as
to be a commodity in its own right independently of the goods or services to
which it is attached or the field/area in which it originally appears. It is
only when this is established on evidence as a fact, that the claimant may be
able to claim a right to prevent any one else from using such a character for
other purposes. In the instant case, the plaintiffs, admittedly, have not done
any character merchandising at all so far as any character in their
film/serial is concerned. There is no question, therefore, of any character in
the serial having acquired any public recognition or reputation or an
independent life of its own separately from its position as a character in the
serial. There is no material on record to show that any character in the
serial has become a commodity in its own right, independently of the
film/serial. In these circumstances, the question cannot arise of the
plaintiffs making any claim to exclusive right to a character or be entitled
to any reliefs on the alleged basis that the public associates any character
in the serial exclusively with the plaintiffs, in relation to the business of
character merchandising. On the facts of this case, there is no fictional
character involved like 'Superman', Teletubbies' or 'Lone Ranger'. In the
serial there are ordinary people in common life who play the role of some
character or the other. At least from the material on record there is nothing
special in any, of the characters of which it can be said' that they have
gained any public recognition for itself with an independent life outside the
serial. This, the plaintiffs have failed to establish.

It is no doubt true that the plaintiffs have relied upon the judgment in Shaw
Brothers (Hong Kong) Limited v. Golden Harvest (H.K.) Ltd., 1972 RPC 559. The
character concerned was a fictional character 'the One Armed Swordsman'. It
was a case of use of the very character in one film and in another film. In
the instant case as already held the plaintiffs have not established any
reputation in any particular character in the serial at all. It is also not a
case of one film against another film and further the defendants are not
merchandising any character from the serial by means of their T.V. commercial.

In Hexagon Pty. Limited v. Australian Broadcasting Commission, 1976 RPC 628,
the case was of fictional character of fantasy called 'Alvin Purple'. On facts
it was held that the plaintiffs had built up goodwill in the films entitled
'Alvin Purple', and the character in the rival film was the same character as
'Alvin Purple' In the plaintiffs' film. On facts it was held that this was a
case of passing off.

In Mirage Studios v. Counter-Feat Clothing Company Limited (supra) the case
was of a fictional cartoon character called 'Ninja Turtles'. The plaintiffs
had done extensive character merchandising of those cartoon characters with
over 150 licenses having been granted to use those characters in respect of a
wide range of goods. On facts and evidence on record, the Court held that the
plaintiffs' business was to license the reproduction of the said cartoon
characters on goods sold by other, people, which licensing business they had
extensively carried on. The public were aware that the characters were
connected with the plaintiffs.

The case of Fletcher Challenge Ltd. v. Fletcher Challenge Pty. Ltd. and Ors.,
1982 FSR 1, would not apply as it is not based on character merchandising.

13\. I will deal with the last of the submissions of future potential for
character merchandising. It is the contention of the plaintiffs that future
potential of character merchandising in relation to the characters in the
serial is affected by the defendants actions of making the commercial. As laid
down earlier, prima facie, authorities show that an action based on character
merchandising there must be in fact, character merchandising and that mere
potential for merchandising the character by itself is not sufficient.
However, it is not possible to rule out the proposition that the mere
potential for merchandising is not sufficient to maintain an action, A
character may have grown out beyond the film when the people would identify
and, therefore, there is a probability of it being potentially merchandised.
On the facts of this case there is no such material, of any from character
setting this roles None of the models or actors have acquired such fame or a
character has become identifiable in the minds of the public, which can be
said to be particularly merchandised. The plea of the plaintiff is that the
public associate the characters. Tulsi, Savita and J.D. with the plaintiffs
serial. There is nothing to show that the characters Tulsi, Savita or J.D. by
themselves are capable of being marketable independently or jointly. They are
merely the main characters in the serial as the material now stands.

In the instant case, the defendants are merely promoting their own product,
that is, Tide detergent. Can it be said that the defendants' act of promoting
their product Tide would in any manner affect the plaintiffs' future potential
of merchandising the character in their serial. There is, no material of real
likelihood of damage being caused to the plaintiffs' by the acts of the
defendants. The mere act of T.V. advertisement by the defendants cannot
prejudice the plaintiffs' chances of exploiting their merchandising rights if
any in respect of the characters in the serial. The fields of activity of the
plaintiffs and of the defendants are totally different. As noted this is a
relevant consideration in passing off action. When the fields of activity are
different, the stronger is the evidence necessary to establish
misrepresentation and the real likelihood of damage. To succeed in a case of
character mechandising the plaintiffs must establish as a fact, by material
and evidence, that the public would look at the character and consider it to
represent the plaintiffs or to consider the product in relation in which it is
used as has been made with the plaintiffs' approval. On material on record the
plaintiffs have failed to establish this. This plaintiffs cannot establish it
as they have not even begun character merchandising in respect of the
characters in the serial. On the contrary, members of the public viewing the
T.V. commercial will in all probability associate with the product Tide of the
defendants and not with the plaintiffs' serial or character therein. The
defendants have pleaded, and in my opinion rightly, that they are a major
consumer goods Company, well known in their own right and their products
including Tide have their own reputation amongst the public; Tide will be
associated with the defendants and not with the plaintiffs. The issue of
misrepresentation is a question of fact which in the instant case the
plaintiffs have failed to discharge.

At any rate of plaintiffs ought to have established that the acts of the
defendants have caused damage or that there is real likelihood of damage. See
Merchandising Corporation of America Inc. and Ors., v. Harpbond Limited and
Ors., 1983 FSR 32; Stringfellow and Anr. v. McCain Foods (G.B.) Limited, 1984
RPC 501; Lingstad and Ors. v. Anabas Products Limited, 1977 FSR 62. The
Court's bare observation that the need for a real possibility of confusion is
the basis of the action. It is necessary to show that reasonable people might
think that the plaintiffs activities were associated with the defendants'
goods or business, and on evidence the Court must be satisfied that there is a
real possibility of confusion Miss World (Jersey) Limited & Anr., (supra) and
Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, Thirteenth Edition, Paragraphs
14.75 to 14.77. Establishing passing off by goods in which the claimant does
not trade, calls for special evidence to establish that the defendants' action
would induce the belief, if any, that his goods are those of the claimant, at
least that his business is an extension of or somehow connected with that of
the claimant or that his goods have been some-how approved or authorized by
the claimant. In relation to character merchandising, unless the public can be
shown to be will aware of merchandising in the particular field, there will
be, in general, no obvious link between the production of television
programmes or films and the manufacturer of toys, clothes etc., with which
character names may be profitably used. Once merchandising is well on the way,
some one will have the goodwill.

14\. From the above, that therefore is clear is that there do arise triable
issues. The test is not, however, merely of triable issues. They must be
strong triable issues as explained in American Cyanamide v. Ethicon Ltd., 1975
(1) All E.R. 504, which principles have been reiterated by the Apex Court in
Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., . Looking at the
material on record, the plaintiffs have failed to establish a strong prima
facie case. That by itself would disentitle the plaintiffs to the reliefs
prayed for.

Even assuming otherwise, the material on record and the contentions advanced
would only show that what the plaintiffs are pleading by way of passing off
action/character merchandising as a future potential. Real likelihood of
damage or probability of damage has not been established. The defendants
commercial is meant to promote their product 'Tide'. In these circumstances,
to my mind, it is clear that the plaintiffs have not been able to satisfy, at
this stage, that the balance of convenience is in their favour and/or
irreparable injury would be caused to them, if the defendants are allowed to
air their T.V. commercial. At any rate, the plaintiffs can always by
compensated by way of damages if they succeed as it the plaintiffs' case
themselves, that the defendants are a financially sound Company.

15\. Considering the above, to my mind, no case is made out for the grant of
any relief and, consequently. Motion stands dismissed. In the circumstances of
the case, each party to bear their own costs.

