

Bombay High Court

Keraba Dattu Borachate And Ors. vs Sheshashai And Vishnu Trust on 14 August,
1990

Equivalent citations: 1990 (3) BomCR 656

Author: M Pendse

Bench: M Pendse, M Saldanha

JUDGMENT M.L. Pendse, J.

1\. The question for determination in this petition is filed under Article 226
of the Constitution of India is whether a tenant in occupation of agricultural
land is entitled to notice before the Collector issues exemption certificate
in favour of a Public Trust as contemplated under section 88-B(1)(b) of the
Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as
the 'Act'). The petition is referred to Division Bench by the learned Single
Judge at the stage of admission as it was felt that the decision of the Single
Judge in the case of Shrimant Jagdesras Anandrao Pawar v. Kisan Namdeo Pawar
and others, reported in 1979 Maharashtra Law Journal 687 holding that notice
is not required to be served on the tenant requires reconsideration.

2\. The respondent is a Public Trust and claims to be registered under the
Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950. The Trust owns agricultural lands bearing Gat
No. 1061 at Village Beneli and Gat No. 1894 at village Kothali in Karvir
Division of Kolhapur District. The lands are leased out to the petitioners and
the rights of the tenants are regulated by the provisions of the tenancy Act.
The trustees instituted Tenancy Application No. 5 of 1977 before the Sub-
Divisional Officer, Kervir Division, Kolhapur for grant of exemption
certificate under section 88-B(1)(b) of the Act. The Trustees claim that
income accrued from the agricultural lands is Rs. 600/- and the entire income
is spent for the object of the Trust. Initially, some of the petitioners were
added as party respondents to the application but subsequently their names
were delected as the Sub-Divisional Officer felt that it was not necessary to
serve notice on the tenants and it is not permissible for the tenants to
resist the proceedings as the proceedings are entirely between the Trust and
the Collector. The Sub-Divisional Officer by order dated November 13, 1979
allowed the application and granted exemption certificate holding that the
Certificate of Registration under the Public Trust Act is produced and the
accounts are verified by the Government Auditor and, the conditions under
section 88-B(1)(b) are compiled with. Against the decision recorded by the
Sub-Divisional Officer, the petitioners carried revision before the
Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal but the same was withdrawn as the Tribunal had no
jurisdiction to entertain revision application. The petitioners have
thereafter filed the present petition to challenge the legality of the order
of the Sub-Divisional Officer.

3\. The principal contention urged on behalf of the petitioners is that the
action of the Sub-Divisional Officer in issuing exemption certificate without
notice to the petitioners tenants is entirely illegal and, therefore, the
order is required to be set aside. To appreciate, the contention, it is
necessary to set out the relevant provisions of section 88-B of the Act.
Section 88-B(1)(b) of the Act reads as under :

(1) Nothing in the foregoing provisions except sections 3, 4-B, 8, 9, 9-A,
9-B, 9-C, 10, 10-A, 11, 13, and 27 and the provisions of Chapter VI and VIII
in so far as the provisions of the said Chapters are applicable to any of the
matters referred to in the sections mentioned above shall apply---

(b) to lands which are the property of a trust for an educational purpose, a
hospital, Penjarapole, Gaushala or an institution for public religious worship
:

Provided that---

(i) such trust is or is deemed to be registered under the Bombay Public Trusts
Act, 1950 and

(ii) the entire income of such lands is appropriated for the purpose of such
trust."

Sub-section (2) of section 88-B reads as under :

"For the purposes of this section, a certificate granted by the Collector,
after holding an inquiry, that the conditions in the provision to sub-section
(1) are satisfied by any trust shall be conclusive evidence in that behalf."

The plain reading of section 88-B makes it clear that an exemption certificate
can be granted in favour of the Trust which has leased out the land provided
the Trust is for an educational purpose, a hospital, Panjarapole, Gaushala or
an institution for public religious worship. The Collector before issuing
exemption certificate must satisfy that (a) such trust is or is deemed to be
registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950, and (b) the entire income
of such lands is appropriated for the purposes of such trust. Sub-section (2)
prescribes that the exemption certificate granted by the Collector, after
holding an inquiry shall be conclusive evidence in that behalf. The
consequence of grant of exemption certificate is that the tenants of the
agricultural lands in respect of which exemption certificate is granted lose
valuable rights of becoming purchasers on the tillers day. Section 88-B
prescribes that on grant of exemption certificate except sections which are
set out in sub-section (1), the other provisions of the Tenancy Act will not
be attracted in respect of the said lands. Section 32 of the Act provides that
on April 1, 1957 which is known as tillers day, every tenant shall be deemed
to have purchased from his landlord the land held by him as tenant and face of
all encumbrances subsisting on the said day. Section 32 onwards of the Act
then set out the mode of determining purchase price and the mode of payment by
tenant. The Tenancy Act was enacted by the legislature to confer substantial
right upon the cultivator of the land in accordance with the Constitutional
mandate. The right conferred upon the cultivated under section 32 of the Act
stands excluded in respect of the lands belonging to the Trust on grant of
exemption certificate. It is, therefore obvious that the consequence of grant
of exemption certificate by the Collector and which is made conclusive
evidence results into serious prejudice to the interest of the tenant. Indeed,
on grant of exemption certificate, the landlord is not required to approach
the Tenancy authorities to seek recovery of possession but can institute
proceedings in regular Civil Court on the basis that the relationship of the
lesser and lessee is regulated by the provisions of the Transfer of property
Act. It hardly requires to be stated that the tenant of an agricultural land
who is deprived of protection of the provisions of the Tenancy Act can have no
answer when the suit is instituted by the Trust in regular Civil Court for
recovery of possession. It is, therefore, obvious that grant of exemption
certificate seriously prejudices the rights of the cultivator of an
agricultural land. We are, therefore, unable to appreciate the contention
urged on behalf of the Trust that the inquiry held by the Collector before
grant of exemption certificate is a matter exclusively between the Collector
and Trust and the tenants are not entitled either to appear in such
proceedings or resist the claim of the Trust. The Sub-Divisional Officer has
also proceeded on the basis that tenants are not necessary parties and notice
is not required to be served on the tenant before grant of exemption
certificate.

4\. In our judgment, the view taken by the Sub-Divisional Officer is in
violation of the rules of natural justice. The rules of natural justice come
into play where there is a duty to act judicially or fairly. One of the
requirement of natural justice is that no men shall be condemned unheard. Lord
Denning in the judgment reported in 1962 appeal Cases 322 Kenda v. Government
of Malaya, observed that the essential characteristic of what is often called
'natural justice' the Domenne put them in the two maxims : News judex in cause
sue : and audi alteram partem. They have recently been put in the two wards
'importantly' and 'fairness'. The main requirements of a fair hearing are two
: (i) a person must know the case he has to meet, and (ii) he must have an
adequate opportunity of meeting that case. It is not possible to lay down what
should be the test of a fair hearing in respect of all kinds of cases. The
recent statutes have extended the practice of imposing upon departments or
officers of State the duty of deciding or determining questions of various
kinds and it will usually be of an administrative kind though it involves
matter of law as well as matter of fact. It is now well settled by catena of
decisions that the principles or natural justice come into play not only in
respect of a judicial of quasi judicial enquiry but also in respect of
administrative actions resulting into deprivation of valuable rights of
property. Lord Denning in the decision of the case of A. v. Gaming Board En.
Bensis, reported is 1970(2) Queens Bench 417 observed that at one time it was
said that the principles of natural justice only apply to judicial proceedings
and not to administrative proceedings. The hereby was sectched in Ridge v.
Baldwin. It was held that the principles applied even to grant or revocation
of licences. In Ridge v. Baldwin, 1964 Appeal Cases 40 which is a land mark
decision, Lord Reid observed that authorities dealing with property rights and
privileges must hear the parties even though the statute does not set out any
positive words of such requirement. It was held that the exercise of many
powers which in common understanding were no more judicial proceedings must
satisfy the principle that no man should be deprived of his property without
his having an opportunity to be heard. The principles laid down by the English
Courts are referred to with approval by the Supreme Court and it would be
suffice if reference is made to the decision in the case of Orissa v. Dr.
(Miss) Binarani Dei, . Mr. Justice Shah as he then was speaking for the Court
observed :

"An order by the State to the prejudice of a person in derogation of his
vested rights may be made only in accordance with the basic rules of justice
and fairplay. The deciding authority, it is true; is not in the position of a
Judge called upon to decide an action between contesting parties, and strict
compliance with the forms of judicial procedure may not be insisted upon. He
is, however, under a duty to give the person against whom an enquiry is held
an opportunity to set up his version or defence and an opportunity to correct
or to controvert any evidence in the possession of the authority which is
sough to be relied upon to his prejudice. ....... ....... The rule that a
party to whose prejudice an order is intended to be passed is entitled to a
hearing applies a like to judicial tribunals and bodies of persons invested
with authority to adjudicate upon matters involving civil consequences. It is
one of the fundamental rules of our constitutional set-up that every citizen
is protected against exercise of arbitrary authority by the State or its
officers. Duty to act judicially would, therefore, arise from the very nature
of the function intended to be performed; it need not be shown to be super-
added. If there is power to decide and determine to the prejudice of a person,
duty to act judicially is implicit in the exercise of such power ...... ......
That is a basic concept of the rule of law and importance thereof transcends
the significance of a decision in any particular case."

It is now well-settled that any authority whether exercising power judicially
or administratively when determining the property rights must give proper
hearing before passing adverse orders.

5\. It was, therefore, rightly contended by the petitioners that grant of
exemption certification under section 88-B of the Act concludes a valuable
right of a cultivator of the agricultural land to become purchaser on the
tiller's day. It was therefore, improper on the part of the Sub-Divisional
Officer to held that the tenants are not entitled to notice and the hearing
before grant of exemption certificate. We find considerable merit in the
submission of the learned Counsel. On behalf of the Trust, strong reliance was
placed on the decision of the Single Judge of this Court in the case of
Shrimant Jagdeorao Anandrao Pawar v. Kisan Namdeo Pawar and others, reported
in 1979 Maharashtra Law Journal 687 where the learned Judge held that in an
inquiry under section 88-B(1)(b) of the Act, notice is not a must and the
issue arises between the Trust and the Collector. It was further held that
though sub-section (2) of section 88-B requires the Collector to issue a
certificate after holding enquiry, the said enquiry does not partake of the
character of trial which should end in an order. The learned Judge felt that
it is an enquiry for purposes of entitlement of acquire a piece of conclusive
evidence on certain matters and therefore, the word `inquiry' in section 88-B
cannot be treated as judicial trial which must and in an order of decision.
The learned Judge realised that the grant of certificate under sub section (2)
by rule of evidence provides that it will be conclusive evidence that the
Trusts is registered under the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 and the entire
income of lands is appropriated for the purpose of the Trust but did not take
into consideration the adverse consequences which the tenants have to suffer
by grant of exemption certificate. The Single Judge was impressed by the fact
that section 88-C which also provides for grant of exemption certificate and
exclusion of certain provisions of the Tenancy Act on satisfaction of certain
conditions, prescribed for giving of notice to the tenant, holding of an
enquiry and than recording a decisions and which is also made appealable. The
learned Judge felt that the fact that section 88-C of the Act does not
specifically provide for notice to tenants, it must be assumed that the
Legislature never intended that while granting exemption certificate under
section 88-B, the Collector was duty bound to serve notice upon the tenants.
The learned Judge also draws support for his conclusion from the observations
of the Supreme court in the case of Maneksha Ardeshir Irani v. Manekji Edulji
Mistry, . With respect, we are unable to share the view of the learned Single
Judge, and we overrule the same.

The reliance of the learned Judge on the provisions of section 88-C of the Act
to held that the Legislature never intended that notice should be issued to
the tenants and inquire should be held in their presence before grant of
exemption certificate under section 88-B of the Act is not appropriate. It is
not well settled that when valuable property rights of a party are affected,
then irrespective of the fact whether the Statute specifically provides for
issuance of notice and inquiry, the forum is duty bound to serve notice upon
the person whose rights are going to be adversely affected. The principles of
natural justice demand that the valuable property rights should not be
deprived without the person being given sufficient opportunity to meet the
claim. The Trust is entitled to an exemption certificate provided two facts
are established: (a) that the Trust is or is deemed to be registered under the
Public Trusts Act and (b) the entire income of lands is appropriated for the
purposes of the Trust. Now, these two questions which are required to be
determined by the Collector demand proof of certain facts and it is not
permissible to hold that the Collector can conclude the inquiry without giving
an opportunity to the tenants who are directly affected by grant of
certificate. The tenant could very well establish that the Trust is not
registered before tiller's day or, in any event, the entire income of the
Trust is not appropriated towards the object of the Trust. By holding that the
issue arises only between the Trust and the Collector, the learned Single
Judge deprived the tenants from establishing that the Trust is not entitled to
exemption certificate. Sub-section (2) of section 88-B of the Act prescribed
by rule of evidence that the exemption certificate is conclusive evidence as
regards the conditions provided under section 88-B(1)(b) of the Act and,
therefore, there is a greater necessity that the tenants who are going to be
seriously prejudiced by grant of such exemption certificate should be served
with the notice and permitted to participate in the inquiry. The deprivation
of a right in such an important inquiry conducted under the Statute, which was
enacted by the Legislature for conferring valuable rights upon the Cultivators
and the Legislation being a beneficial one is neither just, nor fair. Merely
because the Legislature did not specifically provide for service of notice and
opportunity for the tenants to participate in the inquiry, it is not
permissible for the Court to deprive the tenants of their valuable rights in
the agricultural lands by concluding that the enquiry is only between the
Collector and the Trustees. The Collector while exercising the powers, even
assuming performing administrative duties, still is bound to serve notice upon
the persons whose property rights are affected.

6\. The learned Single Judge drew support for his conclusion from the
observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Maneksha Ardeshir Irani
(supra). The Supreme Court in paragraph 14 of the judgment observed :

"A contention was advanced on behalf of the appellant that the appellant was
entitled to a notice when the Collector hold an inquiry under section 88-B(1)
of the Act for the purpose of granting a certificate to the respondent. The
Collector under section 88-B(1) of the Act grants a certificate after holding
an inquiry that the conditions in the proviso to section 88-B(1) are satisfied
by any Trust. The Trust has to satisfy two conditions. First, the Trust is
registered under the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950. Second, the entire income
of the lands which are the property of the Trust is appropriated for the
purposes of such Trust. The certificate granted by the Collector shall be
conclusive evidence. The appellant raised this contention. In the High Court
that the appellant was entitled to a notice. The High Court did not accept the
contention. The High Court held that the appellant at no stage denied the fact
that the lands are the property of a Trust. The inquiry is between the
Collector and the Trust. The conclusive evidence clause in the section means
that it is a rule of evidence which would not render it necessary for it to
prove again the compliance with the requirements."

It is necessary to examine in what context the observations were made by Chief
Justice Ray speaking for the Court. In the case before the Supreme court, a
tenant was inducted on agricultural land on March 1, 1943 and the lease was
for a duration of five years with a clause for renewal for five years. The
lease expired on February 28, 1948. As the lease did not exercise the option
of renewal, the lesser thereafter terminated the tenancy and instituted a suit
in the Regular civil Court for recovery of possession. The trial Court
dismissed the suit for recovery of possession and in appeal the High Court
concurred with that view. The Supreme Court remanded the matter to the High
Court for a report on two questions. First, whether the appellant was a
protected tenant on March 1, 1953, and second whether the lessee could claim
benefit of section 5 of the Amending Act, 1952. The High Court submitted the
report holding that the lessee was a protected tenant but was not entitled to
claim the benefit of section 5 of the amending Act. The Supreme Court affirmed
both the findings of the High Court and set aside the judgment of the High
Court but again directed the High Court to determine whether there was valid
termination of the tenancy. The High Court on remand held that the lessee was
not entitled to any notice and the lessee was a tenant on sufferance.
Thereafter, the appeal came up for hearing before the Supreme Court and the
contention was raised that the lessee is entitled to protection under section
4-B of the Tenancy Act because the lessee is holding over and the tenancy
cannot be terminated by efflux of time. Section 4-B, inter-alia, provides that
no tenancy of any land shall be terminated merely on the ground that the
period fixed by agreement or usage for its duration has expired. While
examining this contention, the Supreme Court observed that the provisions of
section 4-B of the Act are not attracted because the contractual tenancy
ceased on February 28, 1948 and thereafter the lessee was in occupation on
sufferance. The Supreme Court held that there was no question of holding over
because there was no contractual tenancy. The Supreme Court held that as the
lessee remained in possession on sufferance, section 4-B of the Act has not
application because there is no tenancy. The tenancy being a matter of privity
between parties, the lessee, according to the Supreme Court, was a
tresspasser.

Thereafter the Supreme Court dealt with the contention that the lessee was
entitled to a notice when the Collector hold an inquiry under section 88-B (1)
of the Act for grant of exemption certificate. The Supreme Court while dealing
with this contention observed that the lessee at no stage denied the fact that
the lands are the property of a Trust and thereafter the observation was made
"The inquiry is between the Collector and the trust". The observation of the
Supreme Court in paragraph 14 of the judgment must be read in its proper
perspective. The Supreme Court, after holding against the lessee on the
question of protection under section 4-b of the Act and concluding that the
lessee was a rank trespasser, was examining the question as to whether the
lessee was entitled to a notice before grant of exemption certificate under
section 88-B of the Act. The observations of the Supreme Court in this context
were that a person claiming to be a lessee was found to be rank trespasser and
was not entitled to any protection under the provisions of the Tenancy Act.
The observations that the inquiry is between the Collector and the Trust
therefore, must be read with reference to the peculiar facts of the case
before the Supreme Court. in our judgment, it is not possible to conclude that
the Supreme Court intended to lay down that in the enquiry conducted by the
Collector under sub-section (2) of section 88-B of the Act, it is not
necessary to serve any notice upon the tenant whose valuable property rights
would be destroyed by grant of exemption certificate. In our judgment, the
reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court by the Single Judge was not
accurate. In our judgment, the Collector is bound to issue a notice to the
tenant of the agricultural lands before holding an enquiry and must permit the
tenant to participate in the inquiry before granting exemption certificate
under section 88-B of the Act. As Sub-divisional Officer has failed to serve
notices upon the tenants in the present case, the impugned order cannot be
sustained.

7\. Accordingly, this petition succeeds and the impugned order dated November
13, 1979 passed by the Sub-divisional Officer, Karvir Division, Kolhapur in
Tenancy Application No. 5 of 1977 and copy of which annexed as exhibit `A' to
the petition is set aside and the proceedings are remitted back to Sub-
Divisional Officer for holding a fresh inquiry after service of notice on the
tenants and permission to participate in the inquiry. The Sub-divisional
Officer should pass the final order on the application filed by the
respondents after giving a fair opportunity to the tenants to answer the claim
of the respondents. The Sub-divisional Officer should dispose of the
proceedings as expeditiously as possible. In the circumstances of the case,
there will be no order as to costs.

