

Supreme Court of India

Indian Oil Corporation Ltd vs Amritsar Gas Service And Ors on 19 November,
1990

Equivalent citations: 1990 SCR, Supl. (3) 196 1991 SCC (1) 533

Author: J S Verma

Bench: Verma, Jagdish Saran (J)

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    INDIAN OIL  CORPORATION LTD.
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    AMRITSAR GAS SERVICE AND ORS.
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT19/11/1990
    
    BENCH:
    VERMA, JAGDISH SARAN (J)
    BENCH:
    VERMA, JAGDISH SARAN (J)
    RANGNATHAN, S.
    FATHIMA BEEVI, M. (J)
    
    CITATION:
     1990 SCR  Supl. (3) 196  1991 SCC  (1) 533
     JT 1990 (4)   601	  1990 SCALE  (2)1056
    
    
    ACT:
        Arbitration	 Act, 1940--Section 34--Termination of	dis-
    tributorship agreement--Granting of relief--Award of compen-
    sation for notice period.
        Arbitration	  Act,	 1940--Section	 30--Objection	  to
    award--Granting	 of relief on the finding Of breach of	con-
    tract  contrary	 to  Section 14(1) of  the  Specific  Relief
    Act--An error of law apparent on the face of award.
        Arbitration	  Act,	 1940--Section	 30--Objection	  to
    award--Direction based on finding of fact--Not to be  inter-
    fered with.
        Arbitration	  Act,	 1940--Section	 30--Objection	  to
    award--Reference to arbitrator by Supreme Court--Refusal  to
    consider counter-Claim by arbitrator--An error of law appar-
    ent on the face of the award.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
        A Distributorship Agreement was made between the  appel-
    lantCorporation	 and the respondent No. 1, for sale  of	 the
    Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Cylinders for the consumers as
    per the terms and conditions specified therein some of.
        The	 appellant-Corporation received	 certain  complaints
    about the working of respondent No. 1 which were acts preju-
    dicial	to  the	 interest, reputation and  products  of	 the
    appellant-Corporation.
        Invoking clause 27 of the Agreement the appellant-Corpo-
    ration terminated the distributorship.
        Aggrieved  by  the termination of  the  distributorship,
    respondent No. 1 flied a suit in the Court of Sub-Judge	 1st
    Class,	for a declaration that termination of the  distribu-
    torship	 was illegal and void; and that the  distributorship
    continued notwithstanding the said termination.
    The appellant-Corporation flied an application under Section
    3A
    197
    of  the	 Arbitration  Act for staying the  suit,  which	 was
    rejected by the trial Court.
        The appeal against that order and thereafter a  revision
    to  the	 High Court were also dismissed giving rise  to	 the
    present appeal by special leave.
        This  Court referred the disputes to an  arbitrator	 and
    appointed a retired Judge of the Court as arbitrator.  Later
    this  Court appointed a retired Judge of the High  Court  of
    Punjab & Haryana in the place of the earlier arbitrator.
        The	 arbitrator,  while making the award held  that	 the
    appellantCorporation  committed breach of contract  and	 was
    liable to remedy the breach by restoration of the  distribu-
    torship	 and also liable to pay compensation.  The  counter-
    claim  made  by	 the appellant-Corporation  in	the  written
    statement  was not decided by the arbitrator on	 the  ground
    that it did not come within the scope of the reference.
        Respondent	No.  1 filed an application  to	 direct	 the
    arbitrator to file the award and to make the award a rule of
    the Court and to pass a decree in terms thereof.
        The appellant-Corporation filed objections under Section
    30  of the Arbitration Act, contending that the validity  of
    the award has to be tested on the principles of private	 law
    and  the  law  of contracts, and not on	 the  touchstone  of
    constitutional	limitations; that the relief of	 restoration
    of  the contract granted by the arbitrator was	contrary  to
    the  prohibition  contained  in Sections 14 and	 16  of	 the
    Specific Relief Act.
        Respondent No. 1 contended that there was a	 presumption
    of  validity  of  award and the	 objections  taken  must  be
    ignored;  and that the termination of  distributorship	cast
    stigma	on the partners of the firm; that  counter-claim  of
    the  appellant-Corporation was rightly not considered  since
    it  was	 not made before the order of  reference;  that	 the
    reference made being of all disputes in the suit, the nature
    of  relief  to be granted was also within  the	arbitrator's
    jurisdiction;  and  interest  also must be  awarded  to	 the
    respondent.
        This Court disposing of the application of the  respond-
    ent No. 1 and the objections of the appellant,
    HELD:  1. The finding in the award being that the  Distribu-
    torship
    198
    Agreement  was revokable and the same being  admittedly	 one
    for  rendering personal service, the relevant provisions  of
    the  Specific Relief Act were automatically attracted.	Sub-
    section (1) of Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act  speci-
    fies  the contracts which cannot be  specifically  enforced,
    one  of which is 'a contract which is in its nature  'deter-
    minable'. [209C-E]
        2. Agreement being revokable by either party in  accord-
    ance with clause 28 by giving thirty days' notice, the	only
    relief which could be granted was the award of	compensation
    for the period of notice, that is 30 days. [210B-D]
        3.	Granting the relief of restoration of the  distribu-
    torship even on the finding that the breach was committed by
    the  appellant-Corporation  is contrary to  the	 mandate  is
    Section	 14(1)	of the Specific Relief Act and there  is  an
    error  of  law apparent on the face of the  award  which  is
    stated	to  be	made according to 'the	law  governing	such
    cases'.	 The  grant of this relief in the  award  cannot  be
    sustained. [209D-F]
        4.	The appellant-Corporation has also been directed  in
    the  award to return the amounts of two hank drafts  on	 the
    ground that no supplies were made to the  plaintiff-respond-
    ent No. 1 against the amounts. This direction was based on a
    finding	 of  fact  which cannot be gone into  and  the	same
    cannot be interfered with. [209G-H]
        Since  the reference to the arbitrator was made by	this
    Court  in an appeal arising out of refusal to stay the	suit
    under  Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, and the  reference
    was  made of all disputes between the parties in  the  suit,
    the  occasion to make a counter-claim in the written  state-
    ment  could  arise only after the order	 of  reference.	 The
    pleadings  of the parties were filed before the	 arbitrator,
    and  the reference covered all disputes between the  parties
    in the suit. Accordingly, the counterclaim could not be made
    at any earlier stage. Refusal to consider the  counter-claim
    disclosed an error of law apparent on the face of the award.
    [210E--G]
        M/s. Dwarkadas Marfatia and Sons v. Board of Trustees of
    the Port of Bombay, [1989] 3 SCC 293; Mahabir Auto Stores  &
    Ors.  v. Indian Oil Corporation & Ors., JT (1990) 1 SC	363;
    Km. Shrilekha Vidyarthi etc. etc. v. State of U. P. &  Ors.,
    JT (1990) 4 SC 211, referred.
    [Decision  based an private law rights alone referred  since
    the plaintiffs'
    199
    claim was confined duly to private law rights and not  based
    on public law rights.]
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

