

Rajasthan High Court - Jodhpur

Alka Matoria vs M.G.S. University Bikaner & Ors on 21 December, 2012

    
    
                                                       D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012
                                                   1
    
                   IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT
                                        JODHPUR
    
                                                :ORDER
    
                                          Alka Matoria
                                              Vs.
                              Maharaja Ganga Singh University & Ors.
    
                               D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012
    
    
                 Date of Order:                               21st December 2012
    
                                                Present
    
                          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE DINESH MAHESHWARI
                            HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE NISHA GUPTA
    
                 Mr.Hemant Jagga, for the petitioner.
                 Mr.D.D.Chitlangi, for the respondent.
    
    
    Reportable   BY THE COURT:(Per Hon'ble Dinesh Maheshwari,J.)

The petitioner, having pursued the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) course with a
college affiliated to the respondent No.1, Maharaja Ganga Singh University,
Bikaner ('the respondent-University' hereafter), has filed this writ petition
in challenge to a condition occurring in the "Regulation for Obtaining
Certified Copy of Answer- book under RTI Act-2005", as framed by the
respondent-University insofar it requires payment of a non-refundable fee of
Rs.1,000/- per answer-book for obtaining certified copy thereof.

The factual aspects of the matter are not of dispute and could be taken note
of, in brief, as follows: The petitioner, said to be having in the background
a good academic record, has been pursuing her B.A. course as a regular student
at Sri Atam Vallabh Jain Girls College, Sriganganagar, which is affiliated to
the respondent-University, with the optional subjects: Political Science, D.B.
Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  2 English Literature and Philosophy. After
having successfully completed Part-I and Part-II of the said course, the
petitioner appeared in B.A. Part-III Examination held this year i.e., 2012;
and in the result declared by the respondent-University, she was awarded 47
marks in English Literature Paper-I. Being dissatisfied with the marks so
awarded, the petitioner sought re-evaluation of her answer- book of English
Literature Paper-I; and, in the re-evaluation, her marks were shown as reduced
from 47 to 28.

After getting such unfavourable result in the re-evaluation, the petitioner
filed an application on 15.10.2012 with reference to Section 7(1) of the Right
to Information Act, 2005 ('the Act of 2005' hereafter) seeking certified copy
of her answer-book of English Literature Paper-I with the application fee of
Rs.10/-. Then, for the concerned Public Information Officer having failed to
provide the requisite certified copy within time, the petitioner preferred an
appeal under Section 19 of the Act of 2005.

It appears from the material placed on record that after filing of the
application by the petitioner, the respondent-University proceeded to notify
the regulations framed by it for the purpose of supplying of the certified
copy of answer-books under the provisions of the Act of 2005 under the
notification dated 26.10.2012 (Annex.9); and these regulations were also
uploaded on the website of the respondent-University. The Information Officer
informed the petitioner about publication of such regulations by his
communication dated 05.11.2012 (Annex.7) and thereafter, the Vice-Chancellor
of the University proceeded to dispose of the appeal filed by the petitioner
by the order dated 08.11.2012 (Annex.8) whereby the petitioner was directed to
apply in accordance with the new D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  3
regulations and the concerned Information Officer was also directed to decide
the application for information within time.

After having noted the contents of the regulations so framed by the
respondent-University, the petitioner filed this writ petition on 21.11.2012
while questioning condition No.2 thereof, whereby and whereunder, a fees of
Rs.1,000/- is to be paid for obtaining certified copy of the answer-book, as
being contrary to the overriding provisions of the Act of 2005 and the rules
framed thereunder. The questioned condition No.2 in the regulations of the
respondent- University reads as under:-

> "2. Application for obtaining certified copy of the answer book(s) of one or
> more papers can be submitted alongwith a non- refundable fee of Rs. 1,000/-
> per answer book. The fee should be deposited only through Account-payee
> Demand Draft in favour of the Registrar, Maharaja Ganga Singh University
> Bikaner payable at Bikaner. Postal orders/Money orders/Cheques/Cash will not
> be accepted. Applicant must attach his/her attested photo copy of marksheet
> along with the application."

In this petition, notices for final disposal were issued on 26.11.2012 while
directing the respondents to keep intact the answer-book in question.

The respondents have filed a reply seeking to justify the questioned condition
as regards charging of Rs.1,000/- as the fees for providing copy of the
answer-book.

While challenging the aforementioned condition No.2 in the regulations, the
learned counsel for the petitioner has contended that such a condition
requiring a candidate to make payment of an amount of Rs.1,000/- for the
purpose of obtaining certified copy of his/her answer-book remains illegal for
being contrary to the rules framed by the State Government under the Act of
2005 i.e., the Rajasthan Right to Information Rules, 2005 ['the Rajasthan
Rules of 2005' hereafter] and so also by the Central Government i.e., the D.B.
Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  4 Right to Information (Regulation of Fee
and Cost) Rules, 2005 ['the Central Rules of 2005' hereafter]. The learned
counsel submitted that as per Rule 4 of the Rajasthan Rules of 2005, the rate
chargeable for providing information under sub-section (1) of Section 7 is
Rs.2/- for each page (A-4 or A-3 size paper) or actual cost or cost price of a
copy in large size paper but not beyond; and the same nature charges are
provided in Rule 4 of the Central Rules of 2005 too. The learned counsel
submitted that cost of a copy of the answer-book carrying about 32 pages, in
no case could be Rs.1,000/-. The learned counsel further submitted that per
Section 22, the Act of 2005 has an overriding effect and the respondent-
University is not entitled to frame any regulation that contradicts the
requirements of the Act of 2005. It is submitted that exorbitant fees to tune
of Rs.1,000/- has been provided only in order to discourage the students from
asking for copies of the answer-books; that the annual examination fee in
total is Rs.450/- that includes even the practical papers and the entire
process of examination; and that there cannot be even a remote justification
for charging Rs.1,000/- per answer-book only for the purpose of providing copy
thereof. It is submitted that the petitioner belongs to a poor family and is
practically unable to deposit such an excessive fee for obtaining the copy of
her answer-book. The learned counsel has also referred to the fees as regards
similar nature information as charged by the other Universities in country.

Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent-University submitted that
the University has prescribed Rs.1,000/- as fee for providing certified copy
of the answer-book as per resolution No.10/2008 dated 08.06.2012, as adopted
by the Academic Council D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  5 and as
approved by the Board of Management under its resolution dated 21.07.2012; and
the notification has also been forwarded to the State Government for
information. The learned counsel submitted that in an academic session, lacs
of answer-books are preserved by the respondent-University and such
preservation and maintenance of record entails huge expenditure; and the fee
has been provided keeping in view such costs incurred by the University.
According to learned counsel for the respondent-University, neither the fee as
provided is exorbitant nor could be said to be suffering from any want of
authority. The learned counsel has referred to the fees charged by the other
Universities in Rajasthan for furnishing similar nature information.

After having given thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions, having
examined the material placed on record and having taken into comprehension the
law applicable, we are clearly of the view that the questioned condition in
the regulation framed by the respondent-University requiring payment of a fee
of Rs.1,000/- per answer-book for the purpose of obtaining its copy under the
Act of 2005 cannot be sustained.

It needs hardly any elaboration that the Right to Information Act, 2005,
having been enacted with the avowed object of setting out the practical regime
of right to information in order to promote transparency and accountability in
the working of every public authority, takes within its sweep an examinee's
right to inspect his/her evaluated answer-book and to obtain certified copy
thereof. The doubts in this regard, if any, were set at rest with the
authoritative pronouncement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Central Board of Secondary Education & Anr. Vs. Aditya D.B. Civil Writ
Petition No.12471/2012  6 Bandopadhyay & Ors.: (2011) 8 SCC 497. Of course,
such right was pronounced by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as being conditioned
with relevant limitations and safeguards.

The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Aditya Bandopadhyay's case (supra) declared that
the provisions of the Act of 2005 will prevail over the provisions of bye-
laws/rules of examining bodies in regard to the examination; and observed that
unless the examining body was able to demonstrate that answer-book fell under
the exempted category of information as described in clause (e) of Section 8
(1) of the Act of 2005, the examining body will be bound to provide access to
an examinee to inspect and take copies of his evaluated answer- book. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court said,-

"36. Section 22 of the RTI Act provides that the provisions of the said Act
will have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in
any other law for the time being in force. Therefore the provisions of the RTI
Act will prevail over the provisions of the bye-laws / rules of the examining
bodies in regard to examinations. As a result, unless the examining body able
to demonstrate that the answer books fall under the exempted category of
information described in clause (e) of Section 8 (1) of the RTI Act, the
examining body will be bound to provide access to an examinee to inspect and
take copies of his evaluated answer books, even if such inspection or taking
copies is barred under the rules/bye- laws of the examining body governing the
examinations........" The Hon'ble Supreme Court further considered the
question as to whether any exemption under clause (e) of Section 8(1) was
available to the examining body in such a matter; and answered in the negative
as under:-

> "51. We, therefore, hold that an examining body does not hold the evaluated
> answer books in a fiduciary relationship. Not being information available to
> an examining body in its fiduciary relationship, the exemption under Section
> 8(1) (e) is not available to the examining bodies with reference to the
> evaluated answer books. As no other exemption under Section 8 is available
> in respect of the evaluated answer books, the examining bodies will have to
> permit inspection sought by the examinees."

> Thus, there remains nothing to doubt that the respondent-

University is bound to provide certified copy of the answer-book as D.B. Civil
Writ Petition No.12471/2012  7 sought for by the petitioner. The only question
is about the legality of charging a fee of Rs.1,000/- per answer-book under
the questioned condition No.2 of the regulations framed by the respondent-
University. In our view, only a glimpse of the basic provisions of the Act of
2005 is sufficient to declare the questioned condition as invalid. Section 22
of the Act of 2005 makes it clear, in no uncertain terms, that this enactment
is having overriding effect over any other law for the time being in force or
any instrument having effect by virtue of any law. Section 22 of the Act of
2005 reads as under:-

> "22. Act to have overriding effect.- The provisions of this Act shall have
> effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the
> Official Secrets Act, 1923 (19 of 1923) and any other law for the time being
> in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than
> this Act."

Then, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act of 2005,
Section 27 thereof has invested the appropriate Government with the power to
make the necessary rules by notification in the official gazette. Sub-section
(2) of Section 27 in particular makes it clear that such rules may provide for
the matters relating, inter alia, to the fee payable under sub-section (1) of
Section 6 and the fee payable under sub-section (1) and (5) of Section 7.
Section 27 of the Act of 2005 reads as under:-

> "27. Power to make rules by appropriate Government.- (1) The appropriate
> Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry
> out the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to
> the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any
> of the following matters, namely:-

> (a) the cost of the medium or print cost price of the materials to be
> disseminated under sub-section (4) of Section 4;

> (b) the fee payable under sub-section (1) of section 6;

> (c) the fee payable under sub-section (1) and (5) of section 7;

> (d) the salaries and allowances payable to and the terms and conditions of
> service of the officers and other employees under sub-section (6) of section
> 13 and sub-section (6) of section 16;

> (e) the procedure to be adopted by the Central Information D.B. Civil Writ
> Petition No.12471/2012  8 Commission or State Information Commission, as the
> case may be, in deciding the appeals under sub-section (10) of section 19;
> and

> (f) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed."

The State Government in Rajasthan, with reference to the powers conferred
under Section 27 ibid. has framed the Rajasthan Right to Information Rules,
2005 and sub-sections (3) and (4) thereof, being relevant for the present
purpose, could be noticed as under:-

> "3. Application fee.- A request for obtaining information under Sub-section
> (1) of Section 6 shall be accompanied by an application fee of rupees ten by
> way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque
> payable to the public authority.

> 4\. Fee for providing information.- (1) For providing information under Sub-
> section (1) of Section 7, the fee shall be charged by way of cash against
> proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque payable to the public
> authority at the following rates:-

> (a) rupees two for each page (in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or copied;

> (b) actual charge or cost price of a copy in large size paper;

> (c) actual cost price for sample or models; and

> (d) for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour, and a fee of
> rupees five for each fifteen minutes or fraction thereof thereafter. (2) For
> providing the information under Sub-section (5) of Section 7, the fee shall
> be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand draft or
> bankers cheque payable to the public authority at the following rate:-

> (a) for information provided in diskette or floppy rupees fifty per diskette
> or floppy; and

> (b) for information provided in printed form at the price fixed for such
> publication or rupees two per page of photocopy for extracts from the
> publication."

It may be noticed that the Central Government too, with reference to clauses
(b) and (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 27 ibid. has framed the Right to
Information (Regulation of Fee and Cost) Rules, 2005; and Rules 3 to 5 thereof
could be noticed as under:-

> "3. A request for obtaining information under Sub-section (1) of Section 6
> shall be accompanied by an application fee of rupees ten by way of cash
> against proper receipt or by demand draft or bankers cheque payable to the
> Accounts Officer of the public authority.

> D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  9

> 4\. For providing the information under Sub-section (1) of Section 7, the
> fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand
> draft or bankers cheque payable to the Accounts Officer of the public
> authority at the following rates:-

> (a) rupees two for each page (in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or copied;

> (b) actual charge or cost price of a copy in larger size paper;

> (c) actual cost or price for samples or models; and

> (d) for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour; and a fee of
> rupees five for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof).

> 5\. For providing the information under Sub-section (5) of Section 7, the
> fee shall be charged by way of cash against proper receipt or by demand
> draft or bankers cheque payable to the Accounts Officer of the public
> authority at the following rate:-

> (a) for information provided in diskette or floppy rupees fifty per diskette
> or floppy; and

> (b) for information provided in printed form at the price fixed for such
> publication or rupees two per page of photocopy for extracts from the
> publication."

As noticed, per Section 22, the Act of 2005 has an overriding effect over any
other law; and as a necessary corollary, the rules framed thereunder for the
purpose of giving effect to its provisions shall have overriding effect in the
field they operate and are supposed to operate. The field in question i.e.,
the "fee payable" for the purpose of making application under Section 6 and
for the purpose of providing information under Section 7 is the one which is
governed by the rules under Section 27 of the Act of 2005. Any rule or
regulation framed by the respondent-University, to the extent standing at
contradiction to such rules cannot be regarded as valid.

We may observe for the present purpose that the respondent- University is a
public authority within the meaning of the Act of 2005 for having been
established by a law made by the State Legislature i.e., Maharana Ganga Singh
University Act, 2003. As per the averments taken, the Governor of State of
Rajasthan is Chancellor of the University and the Vice-Chancellor is appointed
by the Chancellor upon the advice of the State Government. The Registrar D.B.
Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  10 of the respondent-University is
appointed by the State Government on deputation from amongst the officers
serving in the State services. For all its practical purposes, it being a
University established in the State of Rajasthan is essentially governed for
the present purpose by the Rajasthan Rules of 2005, or at any rate, by the
principles thereof. The regulations regarding charge of fees by the
respondent-University, therefore, cannot operate over and above the fees
prescribed in Rules 3 and 4 ibid. As noticed, even in the Central Rules of
2005, the scale of fees is similar to that of the Rajasthan Rules of 2005.

Having regard to the purpose of the enactment and the nature and purport of
the provisions therein, we are of the view that even if the respondent-
University were to make independent regulations for the purpose of providing
certified copies, so far the fields covered by the Rajasthan Rules of 2005 are
concerned, the respondent- University cannot make any such regulation that
could stand at conflict with such rules.

It may be observed that even under the proviso to sub-section (5) of Section
7, the Legislature has contemplated in no uncertain terms that the fees to be
prescribed for the purpose of Sections 6 & 7 of the Act should be reasonable
and is not to be charged at all from the persons who are of below poverty
line. The proviso reads as under:-

> "Provided that the fee prescribed under sub-section (1) of section 6 and
> sub-sections (1) and (5) of section 7 shall be reasonable and no such fee
> shall be charged from the persons who are of below poverty line as may be
> determined by the appropriate Government."

Viewed from any angle, charging of exorbitant fees of Rs.1,000/- for the
purpose of providing copy of answer-book to a D.B. Civil Writ Petition
No.12471/2012  11 student by the respondent-University does not stand in
conformity with the object and purpose of the Act of 2005, stands at stark
conflict with the rules governing the field, and appears to be highly
unreasonable.

So far incurring of the extra expenditure by the University is concerned, the
submissions have only been noted to be rejected. Any such vague reference to
the alleged expenditure cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be the
justification for the respondent- University to flout the requirements of the
applicable statutory provisions; and the University cannot claim any special
treatment than the other public authorities as regards the operation of the
Act of 2005. So far the operation of the Act of 2005 is concerned,
particularly as regards costs of providing information, such submissions on
the part of the respondent-University who is supposed to be an agency of the
welfare State, appear to be rather illogical and unreasonable apart from being
totally baseless.

Charging of fees of Rs.1,000/- for providing copy of answer- book, in the
ultimate analysis, appears to be an ill-intended attempt on the part of the
respondent-University to somehow discourage the students from seeking
certified copies of their answer-books. Such strange regulations only
demonstrate scant respect shown by the respondent-University to the cherished
object of the Act of 2005 and the principles expounded by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Aditya Bandopadhyay's case (supra). The offending condition in the
regulation is required to be quashed.

Before concluding, we may notice that during the course of submissions, while
the learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to some of the Regulations
on the same subject by certain D.B. Civil Writ Petition No.12471/2012  12
Universities like Banaras Hindu University and University of Delhi and
submitted that such exorbitant fees as charged by the respondent-University is
not charged by these Universities. On the other hand, the learned counsel of
the respondent attempted to submit that some other Universities in Rajasthan
are charging the fees in the range of Rs. 500/- to Rs. 1000/- for providing
similar nature information and has referred to the circulars issued by Dr.
Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, University of
Rajasthan, and University of Kota.

In regard to these submissions, we may observe that while it is noticeable
from the regulations of Banaras Hindu University and University of Delhi that
such Universities have provided for the fees squarely in conformity with the
fees as prescribed and as provided in the aforesaid Rules of 2005 whereas
Dr.Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur has provided
a fees of Rs.1,000/- so as to show the answer-book to the candidate; the
University of Rajasthan has provided a fees of Rs.580/- for obtaining
certified copy of answer-book; and the University of Kota has provided for
such fees for certified copy at Rs.500/- per answer- book. Though we have
noticed these different scales of fees but in our view, nothing much turns
upon them either way and merely because some University has chosen to provide
a higher fees, that by itself does not invest the respondent-University with
any right to charge such kind of fees which is otherwise not in conformity
with the requirements of overriding the provisions of the Act of 2005 and
rules framed thereunder, operating in the field of quantum of fees.

In the ultimate analysis, we are clearly of view that the impugned condition
i.e., condition No.2 as reproduced hereinabove D.B. Civil Writ Petition
No.12471/2012  13 in the regulations framed by the respondent-University
deserves to be quashed as illegal and the respondent-University deserves to be
directed to provide the certified copy of the answer-book to the petitioner
after charging the fees as prescribed under the Rajasthan Rules of 2005 and
not beyond.

As a result of the aforesaid, the writ petition succeeds and is allowed. The
questioned condition in the regulations of the respondent-University i.e.,
condition No.2 as regards charging of Rs.1,000/- as fees for providing copies
of the answer-books is declared illegal and is quashed. The respondent
University shall be required to provide the necessary information after
charging the fee as contemplated by the Rajasthan Rules of 2005 and not
beyond.

Having regard to the circumstances of the case and particularly when we find
that a student has unnecessarily been driven to this avoidable litigation, we
allow costs of the litigation to the writ petitioner, quantified at
Rs.11,000/- (eleven thousand).

    
    
         [NISHA GUPTA],J.                       [DINESH MAHESHWARI],J.
    
    
    MK
     

