Supreme Court of India

State Of Gujarat vs Vora Salebhai Gulamali And Ors. on 30 March, 1977

Equivalent citations: AIR 1977 SC 1815, (1977) 3 SCC 225, 1977 (9) UJ 347 SC

Author: A Gupta

Bench: M Beg, A Gupta, P Kailasam

JUDGMENT A.C. Gupta, J.

1\. The facts are similar in these two appeals on certificate from a common
judgment of the Gujarat High Court disposing of two letters patent appeals.
Respondents 1 and 2 in C. A. 2283 and the predecessor-in-interest of the
respondents in G. A. 2284 were forest contractOrs. The said respondents in C.
A. 2283 acquired from the jagirdars of village Jinjarvani in Ghhotaudepur
Taluka in District Baroda the right to cut certain trees standing on 32 survey
numbers and also on survey No. 200 by two documents executed on April 25, 1954
by the jagirdars. The predecessor of the respondents in G. A. 2284 obtained a
similar right in respect of certain trees in 80 survey numbers situated in
village Sanada in the same taluka and district the transaction in this case is
evidenced by two documents dated May 25, 1953 and June 25, 1954. Respondents 1
and 2 in C. A. 2283 instituted a suit in the court of the Joint Civil Judge,
Senior Division, Baroda, on October 16, 1954 for a declaration of their title
to the trees purchased from the jagirdars and for permanent injunction
restraining the State of Gujarat from obstructing the plaintiffs from cutting,
felling and removing the said trees. The predecessor of the respondents in C.
A. 2284 filed a suit in the same court on January 7, 1957 for similar reliefs
in respect of the trees he had purchased. The State of Gujarat filed a written
statement in each case contending that the plaintiffs' vendors had no title to
the trees because of the Jagir Abolition Act, 1954 and the plaintiffs
therefore had acquired no right by their purchase. In the suit out of which C.
A. 2283 arises the trial court found that by virtue of Section 5 of the said
Act the Jagirdars had become occupants of 9 of the survey numbers and the
plaintiffs had acquired by transfer a valid right to cut the trees standing on
these survey numbers. The claim as regards survey No. 200 and also in respect
of the other 23 survey numbers was dismissed. In the other suit the
plaintiff's title to the trees standing on 20 out of the 80 survey numbers was
declared and the claim regarding the other 60 survey number was dismissed. The
plaintiffs in the two suits preferred appeals to the District Judge, Baroda,
against the decision of the trial Court. The defendant, State of Gujarat, did
not file any appeal or cross-objection against the part of the judgments that
was adverse to it. The District Judge in the appeal giving rise to C. A. 2283
affirmed the finding of the trial court as regards survey No. 200 but reversed
the decision as regards the remaining 23 survey numbers & declared the
plaintiffs' title to the trees in all the 32 survey numbers. According to the
District Judge and the Jagirdars continued to have the right to the trees in
these survey numbers in view of Section 8 of the Jagir Abolition Act. The
District Judge also allowed the other appeal upholding the plaintiff's claim
with regard to the 60 survey numbers which was rejected by the trial court.
The State of Gujarat preferred two second appeals to the High Court of Bombay
challenging the decision of the District Judge in regard to 23 survey numbers
in one case and 60 survey numbers in the other. A single Judge of the High
Court held that the documents executed by the Jagirdars in favour of the
plaintiffs in the two suits required registration and, not being registered,
these documents were not admissible in evidence and did not create any title
in favour of the plaintiffs. From the decision of the learned single Judge the
plaintiffs in the two suits preferred two appeals under Clause 15 of the
Letters patent Act. The Division Bench of the High Court disposed of the
appeals by a common Judgment allowing the same holding that the State of
Gujarat not having appealed against the part of the decision of the trial
court which was adverse to it, was deberred from raising the question of the
registrability of the documents. It was held that the partial success of the
plaintiffs in the trial court was based on these very documents, and, as the
defendant had not challenged the validity of the documents on the ground of
want of registration, the question sought to be raised in the second appeals
before the High Court was barred by the principle oontrfs cuctive res
judicata.

2\. In the appeals before us it is contended on behalf of the appellant, state
of Gujarat, that the Division Bench of the High Court was in error in holding
that the question whether the documents required registration was barred by
the principle of res judicata. Counsel for the respondents in these appeals
besides trying to support the decision of the Division Bench on the question
of res judicata contends that the documents were not compulsorily registrable.
A document creating an interest in immovable property of the value of Rs.
100/-or more requires registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act
and, if unregistered, such a document will not affect any immovable property
and will not be received as evidence of any transaction affecting such
property in view of Section 49 of that Act. Immovable property as defined in
Section 2(6) of the registration Act includes "things attached to the earth",
which will take in trees, but excludes standing timber. According to counsel
for the respondents the trees covered by the documents in question were
standing timber and therefore the documents did not require registration for
their Validity. The question of registration cannot be decided without an
enquiry as to the nature of the trees concerned. Whether or not the trees in
question were in a question of fact. As the question was raised for the first
time at the second appeal stage, this aspect of the matter was not
investigated. On the material on record it is not possible to reach any
conclusion as to the nature of the trees and, therefore, we are not able to
agree that the impugned documents were void for want of registration. We think
that the learned single Judge of the High Court was not right in allowing the
question which is not pure question of law to be raised at that stage. If the
issue as to the registrability of the documents does not arise the question of
res judicata also does not arise for decision and we express no opinion on the
point. The appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs. One set of hearing
fee.

