

Customs, Excise and Gold Tribunal - Mumbai

Commissioner Of Central Excise ... vs Larsen And Toubro Ltd. And ... on 21
March, 2006

Equivalent citations: 2006 (107) ECC 603, 2006 ECR 603 Tri Mumbai, 2006 4 S T
R 63

Bench: J Balasundaram, Vice, A T K.K.

ORDER K.K. Agarwal, Member (T)

1\. These are two appeals filed by the department against the order of the
Commissioner (Appeals) dropping the proceedings against the respondents M/s
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. in the first case and M/s Fetrofac International Ltd. in
the second case. Since the issue involved in both the appeals is common, they
are being decided through a common order.

2\. In the first case, the respondent M/s Larsen & Toubro Ltd. were awarded a
contract for setting up of (1) Solvent - Dewaxing/De-Oiling Uni 9SDU) and (2)
Hydrotreater, Amine Treating Unit, Control Room pad Sub-station at Digboi
Refinery vide contract No. (1) PROJ/SDU/DR/53 of 1999-2000 and (2)
PROJ/HDT/DR/54 of 1999-2000 which includes the work of "Residual Process
Design, Detailed Engineering, Procurement, Supply, Construction, Erection,
Installation. Testing Commissioning and Mechanical Guarantee of the said
Units. The Lump sum Price offered by the said assessee against the work of
Turn Key Project for the said units of Digboi Refinery are as follows:

    
    
      Sr.    Description           Price Contract No.
    No.                          PROJ/SDU/DR/53      PROJ/HDT/DR/54
                                 of                  of
    1.     Lump sum price for    Rs. 9,00,90,000/-   Rs. 8,31,60.000/-
           Residual
           Process Design and
           detailed Engineering
    2.     Lump sum price for    Rs. 51,54,16,100/-  Rs. 54,64,00,000/-
           Supply portion
    3.     Lump sum price for    Rs. 38,36,24,000/-  Rs. 35,21,04,000/-
           Construction
           installation portion
     
     
    
    The above lump sum prices offered by the said appellant have been accepted by M/s. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (Assam Oil Division), Digboi vide their letter Ref. No. SDU/CON/02 and HDT/CON/03 respectively dated 24-2-2000. 
     
    
    

3\. In the second case, the respondent M/s Petrofac International Ltd., New
Delhi was awarded the contract for Residual Process Design, Detailed
Engineering, Procurement, Supply, Construction, Fabrication, Erection,
Installation, Testing Commissioning and Mechanical Guarantee of sulphur block
at Gujrat Refinery of M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Vadodara by accepting
bid document 3841/3851/T-48/97-98/SKD/02.

4\. They were awarded the said contract for US $ 1,39,13,650/- + Indian Rs.
46,95,59,746/- in lump sum as para 2.1 of the above acceptance letter out of
which US $ 26,99,778/- was earmarked for Residual Process Design and Detailed
Engineering.

5\. It was alleged that in both the case the respondents have deliberately and
intentionally not disclosed the material fact of their providing taxable
service as consultant engineer to the department. Therefore, show cause
notices were issued to them demanding service tax amounting to Rs.
9,68,58,668/- in the first case and Rs. 62,59,435/-in the second case besides
proposing penalties under Section 76, 77, 78, 79 ana 81 of Chapter V of
Finance Act, 1994. In both the cases the show cause notices were confirmed in
which service tax amounting to Rs. 9,68,57,665/- in the first case and Rs.
62,59,435/- in the second case were confirmed and penalties of equivalent
amount were imposed on the respondents M/s Larsen & Toubro Ltd. and M/s
Petrofac International Ltd. besides imposing personal penalties on the
officers of the respondents.

6\. Both the above orders were challenged by the respondents before
Commissioner (Appeals) who allowed the appeal in both the cases mainly relying
on the Tribunal's decision in the case of M/s Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. v.
C.C.E., Vadodara . It is against these two decisions of the Commissioner
(Appeals) that the department has come up in appeal.

7\. Heard both parties.

8\. The learned S.D.R. Shri Ajay Saxena, submitted that the Commissioner
(Appeals) has set aside the orders in both the cases relying upon the
Tribunal's decision in the case of Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. cited supra. In
this case the Tribunal has held that a work contract cannot be vivisected to
tax the service portion. It was submitted that the ratio of this decision is
not applicable in the instant case, since the value of service is separately
mentioned in the contract/agreement. In fact the agreement itself is an
agreement for simply and services. There is no need to vivisect the contract
to ascertain the value of service. In the billing also the supply portion is
separately billed and service portion is separately billed. The agreement very
specifically mentions the scope of service as well as the supply. It was
accordingly submitted that when in a work contract the charges for the service
have been separately and clearly mentioned it would cease to be an individual
work contract and there shall be absolutely no dispute about the liability to
service tax of the taxable services provided in course of execution of the
work contract. In view of this the order of Commissioner (Appeals) was
contrary to the facts of the case.

9\. The learned S.D.R. invited attention to the details of the contract
wherein the break up, the lump sum price for residual process design and
detailed engineering was given separately as compared to lump sum price for
supply portion and lump sum price for construction/installation portion. It
was submitted that it was only in respect of the lump sum price for residual
process design and detailed engineering that contract itself indicates that
the service tax is included in the lump sum price as distinct from the Daelim
Industrial Co. Ltd. case where the service tax was indicated as per the
prevailing rate and the amount was quantified and therefore there was an
element of uncertainty in respect of service tax and it is not known whether
the service tax was actually paid or not. This was not the case in the
contracts relating to M/s Larsen & Toubro where service tax was included in
the lump sum relating to residual process design and detailed engineering. The
very fact that residual process design and detailed engineering has separately
indicated inclusion of service tax meant that the contract was already
vivisected and subject amounts were clearly earmarked and there was no need of
further vivisecting the contract in order to find out the lump sum payable
relating to residual process design and detailed engineering.

10\. It was further submitted that the Tribunal's judgment in the case of M/s
Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. is based on the Supreme Court judgment in the case
of State of Punjab and Ors. v. Associated Hotels India Ltd. . The issue
involved in the case of Associated Hotel of India Ltd. was when a hotel
charges consolidated rate from its visitors for lodging and boarding and the
bill prepared by the hotelier is one and indivisible not capable of being
split into one for residence and the other for meals, whether the supply of
meals by the hotelier to the resident visitors would amount to sale of food
liable to sales tax. Attention was drawn to para 8 of the decision which in
turn refers to the Andhra Pradesh High Court decision in the case of Krishna &
Co. Ltd. v. Andhra Pradesh (1956) 7 STC 26 where raw tobacco was given for the
purpose of drying and was returned in packing material alongwith the dried
tobacco. The question was whether there was a contract for sale of the packing
material besides the job charges for drying of tobacco and it was held where
the price charged for drying specially indicates the cost of packing charged,
a contract for sale of packing material can be inferred. It was submitted that
in the present case, when the lump sum for residual process design and
detailed engineering were separately indicated the contract for service can be
separately implied in the works contract and will be chargeable to service
tax.

11\. Besides above it was submitted that the dispute in the Associated Hotel's
case pertained to the period prior to 46th amendment of the constitution and
the Supreme Court on the basis of constitutional provision during that period
held that the revenue was not entitled to split the transaction into two
portions, one of service and the other of sale of food stuff with a view to
subject the latter to the sales tax. This judgment has become irrelevant after
46th amendment of the constitution by which Article 336 (29A) of the
constitution of India was amended so as to enlarge the scope of entry 54 of
List II of 7th Schedule of the Constitution - "tax on sale or purchase of
goods, to include tax on transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in
some other form) involved in execution of a work contract". Therefore, the
argument that the work contract cannot be vivisected and a part of it subject
to tax is no longer valid. Moreover, Supreme Court in its judgment in the case
of M/s Associated Hotels relied upon by the Tribunal in its judgment in case
of M/s Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. has upheld that an implied contract for
supply of goods while executing a service contract can be inferred if there is
evidence in this regard.

12\. Reference was also invited to the decision of the Kerala High Court in
the case of Kerala Colourlabs Association v. Union of India 2003 (TIOL) 19
H.C. Kerala, wherein it was held that for levy of service tax, the taxing
event is rendering of service. It was pleaded before the court that in
photography more than 50% of the cost is the cost of photo paper and other
materials, which is passed on to the customer and on this basis applying the
predominant intention test upheld in the Supreme Court's decision in the case
of Rainbow Colour Labs and Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh 2001 (134) E.L.T.
322 (S.C.), this would be a contract for sale of goods and not a service
contract. The Kerala High Court in Para 11 of the judgment held that the
discussion about application of pre-dominant intention which is for
determining whether the contract is a work contract or a contract for sale of
goods is not relevant to the issue involved in the case that once it is
accepted that the taxing event is rendering of service and not the sale of
goods, irrespective of whether it is the work contract or a contract for a
sale of goods taxing event would occur because of service rendered, and that
it is the taxing event which determines the true event of the tax. Thus in
this case the High Court has clearly held that when the taxing event is
rendering of services, the services rendered would be taxable even if rendered
in course of execution of a contract. The SLP filed against the judgment of
the Kerala High Court was dismissed by the Supreme Court. Besides this the
Supreme Court in its judgment dated 27.05.2005 (2005 TIOL/135/SC) has once
again upheld the Kerala High Court judgment in the case of Kerala Colour Lab
Association and in para 5 of the judgment has observed that the Kerala High
Court judgment considered all the aspects and there is no infirmity in it.

13\. It was further submitted that in the case of Builders' Association of
India v. Union of India 1989 (073) STC 0370 (SC), it was pleaded by the
Government that the preposition that a work contract cannot be divided would
not be valid in view of 46th amendments to the constitution enlarging
definition of sales to include deemed transfer of property in goods in course
of execution of a work contract and this view has been upheld by the Supreme
Court. However, since service tax is levied by Central Government under the
residual entry where it has powers to tax service, whether it has been
rendered in course of execution of work contract or otherwise for this purpose
a deemed definition like the one incase of sales tax is not necessary.

14\. Reference was also invited to Board's Circular vide F. No. 49/11/2002-ST
dated 18.12.2002 wherein it has been clarified that a turnkey project for
construction of flats, administrative building etc. involve a lot of
preparatory work is required e.g. soil testing, survey, planning design,
drawing etc. and once the design and drawing are completed by the construction
company it always seeks the approval of the client before proceeding with the
construction. If the client suggests some changes they are incorporated in the
design. This portion of the work is provided to its client and the service is
definitely of a 'consultancy engineer' and hence taxable. It was accordingly
submitted that the instant case is fully covered by the Board's circular and
therefore the drawing and detailed engineering charges will be subject to
service tax.

M/s Petrofac International Ltd.

15\. In respect of above case, the learned S.D.R. submitted that the issue
involved is the same and the facts are also similar and the arguments in the
above case will fully apply to the instant case also.

16\. In view of above, it was submitted that once the work contract relates to
supply of services as well as to execution of work i.e. construction, service
tax shall be payable on the lump sum paid for the services rendered and is
liable to service tax.

17\. The learned advocate for the respondents submitted that the department
has challenged the Commissioner (Appeals)'s order mainly on the ground that
the Commissioner (Appeals) had not appreciated the decision in Builders'
Association of India v. Union of India and Gannon Dunkerley & Co. v. State of
Rajasthan wherein it was held that after 46th Constitution amendments of 1984,
Works contract can be divisible and that the High Court decision in the case
of Associated Hotels of India case was distinguishable and further the same
pertains to the period prior to 46th amendments of the constitution and
Supreme Court on the basis of constitution provision during that period held
that the Revenue was not entitled to split up the transaction in two portions
i.e. one of service and the other for sale of food stuff. The other arguments
of the Revenue is that the issue involved in the present case is squarely
covered by the decision of the Kerala High Court in Kerala Colour Lab
Association v. U.O.I. and C.B.E.C. Circular No. 49/11/2002-ST dated
18.12.2002. It has also been argued by the department that the fact of the
present case are different from that the Dealim case cited supra and that even
the decision in the Associated Hotel case referred to a situation where a
contract is implied for sale of packing material apart from the service
depending upon nature of the contract.

18\. As regards the C.B.E.C. circular, it was submitted that the same is not
binding on Commissioner (Appeals) and in fact the circular was cited by the
department before Hon'ble Tribunal in the case of Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v.
C.C.E., Cochin and yet the Hon'ble Tribunal did not agree with the circular
and followed its earlier decision in Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. case cited
supra.

19\. It was submitted that their case is squarely covered by the Tribunal's
decision in the case of Daelim Industrial Co. as the facts are identical. He
contested the learned S.D.R.'s claim that the service tax has been demanded
only on process design and detailed engineering price and submitted that in
the assessment order the tax has been demanded for the whole of the contract
price which besides residual process design and detailed engineering also
include the lump sum price for supply portion and for construction and
installation portion. A great emphasis has been laid on the fact that there
was a seperate demarcation of price for residual process design and detailed
engineering including the fact that the price included the service tax
payable. It was submitted that the price break up was only for the purpose of
billing schedule or control of cash flow. There was no agreement between the
parties for rendering the service of design and engineering for specific price
as a stand alone activity. In case of respondent, there was no understanding
for a separate services for design and engineering divorced from the main
contract. Therefore, no amount of total lump sum price can be attributable as
taxable service of a consulting engineer. The detailed engineering was carried
out by Engineers India Ltd. as consulting engineer for I.O.C.L. and to a
limited intent by another company by the respondents group of companies viz. L
& T Chiyoda Ltd., Baroda and they had shown the services as consulting
engineer in the service tax return filed by them and the service tax as
applicable paid accordingly. The amount of service tax indicated in the
contract was not the actual service tax but other taxes also. The facts are
identical with that by M/s Daelim Industrial where also service tax payable
was mentioned in the contract itself.

20\. It was submitted that main job of the respondent is to construct the
plant. Since the customer is giving the basic technology for the construction
of plant, it has a right to suggest the changes/modifications in the
plant/drawing or specification. The job involved in preparing the plant,
drawings and design is not something that can be considered on independent
footing. This is not a segment, which can be treated separate from the actual
construction work. The customers while granting approval to the drawings of
the designs etc. is satisfying himself that the implementation of the project
is according to the technology supplied by it. I.O.C.L. was not using the
respondents as a consulting engineer. The appropriate description of the
appellants is "contractor by which name the bid documents described the
respondents."

21\. Reference was invited to Supreme Court decision in the case of Sentinel
Rolling Shutters and Engineering Company Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Sales
Tax (1978) 4 SCC 2609 where the Supreme Court was considering whether it was
possible to break up one contract into two segments - one for sale of goods
and the other for providing services. The court observed that in a individual
composite contract, this is not possible to do so. The court accepted the
commercial practice in spreading the contractual payment over the entire
period of the execution of the contract and held that the progressive release
of payment would not have any bearing of the nature of the contract.

22\. Following cases were cited, where the courts have laid down that
composite contract is one transaction and it is not permissible to dissociate
one segment for separate fiscal treatment:

(i) British Railways Board v. Customs and Excise Commissioners [1977] STC 221
[sale of identity card for an amount to a student which entitles him to
purchase rail ticket at concessional rate subsequently is advance payment for
rail transport and nor for sale of goods. The essence of transaction has to be
seen.]

(ii) British Airways plc v. Customs and Excise Commissioners [1990] STC 643
[There is no two supplies of services one of in - flight catering and other of
air transport. It is a single supply of air transport serving Service of food
is not an aim for the passenger in itself but for better enjoyment of the main
service of air transport. Whether it is necessary for the main supply is not a
relevant question]

(iii) Card Protection Plan Ltd v. Customs and Excise Commissioners [1999] STC
270 ECJ and Card protection Plan Ltd. v. Customs and Excise Commissioners
[2001] STC 174 HL [There was a single supply where one or more elements
constituted the principal service and others were merely ancillary, in that
they did not constitute for customers aims in themselves, but simply a means
of better enjoying the principal service. What constitutes a single supply in
economic sense should not be artificially split.]

(iv) Customs and Excise Commissioners v. British Telecommunications plc [1999]
STC 758 [Delivery charges shown separately in the invoice does not imply that
BY was getting a supply of service of delivery apart from supply (sale) of
cars. There was a single supply of purchase of a delivered car. Delivery was
incidental to supply of the car. The fact that delivery could have been
separately arranged from difference party is not material. The court has to
see what the arrangement was in the instant case.]

(v) Pilgrims Language Courses Ltd v. Customs and Excise Commissioners [1999]
STC 874 [ Provision of transport from airport, accommodation, catering,
recreation, etc. are incidental to language teaching course. These do not
constitute the main am of the student. There is a single supply of providing
education.]

(vi) State of Madras v Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd. [ The primary
objective of the contract is to be kept in view. There is one composite
service for a visitor in the hotel. The revenue authorities, attempt to split
up the transaction so as to be able to tax 'sale of food' is not warranted.]

(vii) CIT v. Smt. P. Andal Ammal (2002) 243 ITR 715 (Mad) [In spite of two
leases, one for building and another for furniture and fittings, it was a
single indivisible transaction, Both facilities are intended to be enjoyed
together. Letting of building part cannot be treated separately from the
other.]

(viii) CTS v. Steel Plant Pvt. Ltd. (1995) 99 STC 532 (Bom) [ A contract for
installation and erection of a plant is an indivisible works contract. The
nature of contract does not depend on the mode of payment. The fact that the
value of machinery and the sale tax payable on that has been shown in the
contract would not mean that sales tax can be levied on sale of machinery as
it is otherwise a composite works contract.] It was forcefully submitted that
the Tribunal has already decided in the case of Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. v.
CCE, Vadodara that there is no element of engineering consultancy in turnkey
contract and no service tax is payable under the category of consulting
engineer. The ratio of this decision has been followed by the Hon'ble CESTAT
in L&T Ltd. v. CCE, Cochin . The Hon'ble Supreme Court has dismissed the
Department's SLP in Commissioner v. Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. . In Elecon
Engineering Company Ltd. v. Union of India , the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court
followed the ratio of the decision given in Daelim Case (supra) and Larsen &
Toubro (Supra) cases. In Ircon International Ltd. v. CCE, Mumbai 2005 2 STT
264 (New Delhi - CESTAT), the Hon'ble CESTAT has held that construction
contracts cannot be subjected to service tax as consulting engineer service,
either as a whole or in part, and further observed that this position remains
covered by the decision in the case of Daelim Case (supra)

23\. As regards 46th constitution amendments it was submitted that it defines
"tax on sale or purchase of goods" an expression appearing in the constitution
in the context of" levy of" sales tax. This has no impact on laws other than
laws on tax on sale or purchase of goods. The amendment has introduced the
context of "deemed sales". It does not alter the meaning of sale in the Sale
of Goods Act or other enactment, including the law on service tax. The Supreme
Court has in the case of State of Maharashtra v. Laljit Rajshi Shah hold that
legal fiction are created for some difinite purpose and the fiction is to be
limited to the purpose for which it was created and should not be extended
beyond that legitimate field. Accordingly, it was submitted that legal fiction
of deemed sale was introduced by the 46th constitution amendment for levy of
sales tax and it has no application as regards interpretation of service tax
provision. Further in any case the 46th constitution amendment has the result
of dividing whole contract into sale of goods and supply of services as a
whole. There is no method of further dissecting the service part. In the case
of the respondent, the main service is construction and commissioning of the
plant. It is one integrated activity. The 46th constitution amendment does not
enable to segregate residual process design and detailed engineering from the
main service contract.

24\. In recently delivered judgment in Bharat Sanchar. Nigam Limited v. UOI,
JT 2006 (6) SC 114, the Supreme Court has reiterated that the concept of
composite contract enunciated in State of Madras v. Cannon Dunkerley & Co.
(Madras) Ltd. has survived the 46th Constitutional Amendment service to a
composite transaction not covered by Article 366(29A). The Supreme Court has
explained the nature of a composite contract as under:

The reason why these services do not involve a sale for the purposes of Entry
54 of List II is, as we see it, for reasons ultimately attributable to the
principles enunciated in Gannon Dunkerley's case, namely, if there is an
instrument of contract which may he composite in form in any case other than
the exceptions in Article 366(29-A), unless the transaction in truth
represents two distinct and separate contract and is discernible as such, then
the State would not have the power to separate the agreement to sell from the
agreement to render service, and impose tax on the sale. The test therefore
for composite contracts other than those mentioned in Article 366(29A)
continues to he did the parties have in mind or intend separate rights arising
out of the sale of goods. If there was no such intention there is no sale even
if the contract could be disintegrated. The test for deciding whether a
contract falls into one category or the other is to as what is 'the substance
of the contract We will, for the want of a better phrase, call this the
dominant nature test.

25\. There is nothing in the Supreme Court decisions in the case of Builders'
Association of India and Ors. v. Union of India and Gannon Dunkerley and Co.
and Ors. v. State of Rajasthan and Ors. (1993) ISCC 364 which supports the
appellant's stand that an individual works contract can be divided for the
purpose of levying service tax. All the observation of the Supreme Court in
these two cases are confined to the purpose of sales tax.

26\. The judgment in the case of Kerala Colour Lab Association v. UOI 156 ELT
17 is not against the Respondents. In that, the Hon'ble High Court simply
disregarded the aspect of works contract and decided on the basis that the
entire activity of the assessee as it answers the description of taxable
photography service. In the case of the Respondents, the construction of a
plant on turnkey basis is the service. Such service is not taxable at present.

27\. In Rolls Royce Inds. Power (India) Ltd. v. CCE , the Hon'ble CESTAT held
that in a contract for operation and maintenance of power plant, the entire
responsibility for generating and supplying power is with contractor. If there
is any engineering issue arising during the discharge of the responsibility,
it has to be sorted out and there is no service receiver for solving of
engineering issues. Hence, no service tax is payable. In this judgment, the
Hon'ble CESTAT rejected me SDR's contention about the 46th Constitution
Amendment and held that the Apex Court's decision in Builders' Association of
India and Ors. v. Union of India (supra) has no application as the deeming
definition that exists in sales tax, is not there for the purpose of service
tax.

28\. In the last the learned advocate referred to the case of S. Krishna
(1956) 7 STC 26 relating to drying of tobacco pointed out by the learned
S.D.R. and stated that this decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court has been
overruled by the Supreme Court in the case of Government of Andhra Pradesh v.
Guntur Tobaccos Ltd. 1965 (016) STC 0240-SC. The Supreme Court has observed
that the finding recorded by the High Court that it was intended by the
parties that the packing material should form an integral part of the process
of re-drying and without the use of the packing material re-drying process
could not be completed, and that there is no independent contract for sale of
packing material. It is only as an incident of the re-drying process and as a
part thereof that the respondent's company has to seal the package of tobacco,
after it emerges from the reconditioning chamber with a view to protect it
against atmospheric action. In the absence of any evidence from which contract
to sell packing material for a price may be inferred, the use of packing
material by the respondent-company must be regarded as in execution of the
works contract and the fact that the tobacco delivered by the constituent is
taken away with the packing material will not justify an inference that there
was an intention to sell the packing material. (Page 138 of compilation)

29\. In view of above it was submitted that the contract in the present case
was for the purpose of construction of solvent dewaxing /deoiling unit at the
Digboi Refinery and the other for construction of Hydrotreater. Amine treating
unit, control room and sub-station for hydro treating facilities and the
process design, detailed engineering was only incidental without which the
contract could not have been completed and therefore the contract cannot be
vivisected so as to charge service tax on the services rendered in respect of
residual process design and detailed engineering.

30\. As regards Petrofac, it was submitted that the facts are identical except
that in this case even the amount of service tax said to be included in the
lump sum price relating to residual process design and detailed engineering
was not quantified. It was submitted that the entire arguments will in toto be
applicable to this case also.

27\. We have considered the submissions made by both the parties. We find that
facts of the present case are squarely covered by the Tribunal decision in the
case of Daelim Industrial Co. cited supra and the department's SLP in the case
of Daelim Industrial Co. has been dismissed by the Apex Court. Further the
decision of the Daelim Industrial has been followed by this Tribunal in the
case of M/s L & T Ltd. Its ratio has also been referred to by the Gujarat High
Court in the case of Elecon Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India . Further
in Ircon International Ltd. v. CCE, Mumbai 2002 (2) STT 264, Tribunal has held
that construction contract could not be subjected to service tax as consulting
engineering service, either as a whole or in part and further observed that
position remains covered by the decision in the case of Daelim Industrial Co.
cited supra. Revenue has not been able to distinguish the present contract,
from that involved in Daelim case because the contract in the present cases
are essentially for construction and not for the services and the services
referred to are an integral part of contract. The contract is a work contract
on a turnkey basis and not a consultancy contract. It is well settled by
series of case laws that a work contract cannot be vivisected and part of it
subjected to tax. The decision in the Associated Hotels case does not lend any
support to the revenue as a solitary instance cited by the learned S.D.R. in
the case of S. Krishna of Andhra Pradesh High Court has been undone by the
Supreme Court in the Guntur Tobacco case cited by the appellants. The 46th
amendment to the constitution has also not made any difference to the decision
of Associated Hotels as it was mainly with respect to sales tax which
introduced deeming provision which is not the case before us. The Kerala High
court decision in Kerala Colour Lab Association cited supra also does not help
revenue as in that case the principal contract was that of service and not of
sale of photographic material and therefore it was correctly held that once
the taxing event is rendering of service & the entire activity of the assessee
answer the description of taxable photography service, it is the service which
will be chargeable to service tax &the agreement cannot be considered as that
of sale of photographic material. In the present case, the principal object of
the contract is that of construction and not of rendering any service and
accordingly service tax cannot be levied on service portion of the contract.

28\. In view of above, we reject both the appeals and uphold the order of
Commissioner (Appeals).

(Pronounced in Court)

