

Bombay High Court

Ramesh Chandra Mehta vs The State Of West Bengal on 18 October, 1968

Equivalent citations: (1970) 72 BOMLR 787

Author: J Shah

Bench: J Shah, Ramaswami, G Mitter, K Hegde, A Grover

JUDGMENT J.C. Shah, J.

1\. The Assistant Collector of Customs filed a complaint against Ramesh
Chandra Mehta and four others in the Court of the Additional District
Magistrate, 24 Parganas, charging them with offences under Section 120, Indian
Penal Code read with Section 167 (81) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, Section 5
of the Import and Export Control Act, 1947, and for specific offences
committed in pursuance of the conspiracy. It was the case of the complainant
that when Mehta was searched on December 13, 1962, at the Dum Dura Airport,
Calcutta, diamonds and jewellery worth Rs. 1,91,000 were found on his person
and currency notes of Rs. 27,000 were found in a suit-case with him and that
pursuant to a statement made by Mehta diamonds, pearls and jewellery of the
value of, Rs. 2,61,800 and correspondence, telegrams and cables bearing upon
the conspiracy to smuggle gold, precious stones etc. into India from foreign
countries were recovered from different places'.

2\. The complainant tendered in evidence at the trial certain confessional
statements which he claimed were made before the Customs Authorities in an
enquiry under Section 171-A of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, by Mehta and the
other persons accused. Counsel for the accused objected to the admissibility
of that evidence but the objection was overruled by the trial Magistrate. The
High Court of Calcutta rejected a petition invoking their revisional
jurisdiction against the order of the trial Magistrate. With special leave,
Mehta has appealed to this Court.

3\. Counsel for Mehta urged three contentions in support of the appeal :

(1) that the statements tendered in evidence by the Customs Officer must be
deemed by virtue of Section 160 of the Customs Act 52 of 1962 to be recorded
under the provisions of that Act and their admissibility may be adjudged in
the light of that Act alone ;

(2) that an Officer of Customs is a " police officer " within the meaning of
Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and a confessional statement made
before him is inadmissible in evidence at the trial of the appellant and his
co-accused ;

(3) that the statements made before the Customs Officer were otherwise
inadmissible, because Mehta and others being persons accused of an offence
were compelled by the provision of Section 171-A of the Sea Customs Act, 1878,
to be witnesses against themselves within the meaning of Article 20(3) of the
Constitution.

4\. By Section 160(1) of Act 52 of 1962 read with the Schedule to that Act,
the Sea Customs Act 8 of 1878 was repealed. By Sub-section (3) of Section 160
it is provided:

Notwithstanding the repeal of any enactment by this section,-

(a) any notification, rule, regulation, order or notice issued or any
appointment or declaration made or any licence, permission or exemption
granted or any assessment made, confiscation adjudged or any duty levied or
any penalty or fine imposed or any forfeiture, cancellation or discharge of
any bond ordered or any other thing done or any other action taken under any
repealed enactment shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provision of this Act;

(b) ...

But the admissibility of statements recorded by a Customs Officer under
Section 171-A of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, depends upon the determination of
the question whether the statements when made were inadmissible under Section
25 of the Evidence Act, and Article 20(3) of the Constitution. Even after the
repeal of the Sea Customs Act, admissibility of the statement made in a
complaint made before a Magistrate for contravention of the provision of that
Act must be adjudged in the light of the taint, if any, attaching thereto when
the statement was made. The first contention must, therefore, fail.

5\. Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, enacts that "No confession
made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any
offence." The broad ground for declaring confessions made to a police-officer
inadmissible is to avoid the danger of admitting false confessional statements
obtained by coercion, torture or ill-treatment. But a Customs Officer is not a
member of the police force. He is entrusted with the duty to maintain law and
order. He is entrusted with power which specifically relate to the collection
of customs duties and prevention of smuggling. There is no warrant for the
contention raised by counsel for Mehta that a Customs Officer is invested in
the enquiry under the Sea Customs Act with all the powers which a police-
officer in charge of a police station has under the Code of Criminal
Procedure. Under the Sea Customs Act, a Customs Officer is authorised to
collect Customs duty to prevent smuggling and for that purpose he is invested
with the power to search any person on reasonable suspicion (s. 169) ; to
screen or X-ray the body of a person for detecting secreted goods (s. 170 A);
to arrest a person against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that he has been
guilty of an offence under the Act ( Section 173); to obtain a search warrant
from a Magistrate to search any place within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of such Magistrate (s. 172); to collect information by summoning
persons to give evidence and produce documents (s. 171-A); and to adjudge
confiscation under Section 182. He may exercise these powers for preventing
smuggling of goods dutiable or prohibited and for adjudging confiscation of
those goods, For collecting evidence the Customs Officer is entitled to serve
a summons to produce a document or other thing or to give evidence, and the
person so summoned is bound to attend either in person or by an authorized
agent, as such officer may direct, and the person so summoned is bound to
state the truth upon any subject respecting which he is examined or makes a
statement and to produce such documents and other things as may be required.
The power to arrest, the power to detain, the power to search or obtain a
search warrant and the power to collect evidence are vested in the Customs
Officer for enforcing compliance with the provisions of the Sea Customs Act.
For purpose of Sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code the enquiry made
by a Customs Officer is a judicial proceeding. An order made by him is
appealable to the Chief Customs-authority under Section 188 and against that
order revisional jurisdiction may be exercised by the Chief Customs-authority
and also by the Central] Government at the instance of any person aggrieved by
any decision or order passed under the Act. The Customs Officer does not
exercise, when enquiring into a suspected infringement of the Sea Customs Act,
powers of investigation which a police-officer may in investigating the
commission of an offence. He is invested with the power to enquire into
infringements of the Act primarily for the purpose of adjudicating forfeiture
and penalty. He has no power to investigate an offence triable by a
Magistrate, nor has he the power to submit a report under Section 173 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure. He can only make a complaint in writing before a
competent Magistrate.

6\. In The State of Punjab v. Barkat Ram this Court held (Subba Rao, J.,
dissenting) that a Customs Officer under the Land Customs Act 19 of 1924 or
under the Sea Customs Act 8 of 1878 is not a police-officer for the purpose of
Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and that conviction of the
offender on the basis of his statements to the Customs Officer for offences
under Section 167 (8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and Section 23 (1) of the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, is not illegal. Raghubar Dayal, J., who
delivered the majority judgment of this Court observed (p. 343):

...that the powers which the police officers enjoy are powers for the
effective prevention and detection of crime in order to maintain law and
order.

The powers of customs officers are really not for such purpose. Their powers
are for the purpose of checking the smuggling of goods and the due realisation
of customs duties and to determine the action to be taken in the interests of
the revenues of the country by way of confiscation of goods on which no duty
had been paid and by imposing penalties and fines.

7\. In Raja Ram Jaiswal v. State of Bihar the decision in Barkat Ram's case
was distinguished and it was observed (Itaghubar Dayal, J., dissenting) that
the expression "police officer" in Section 25 of the Evidence Act was not to
be construed narrowly but in a wide and popular sense. The Court in that case
held that an Excise Inspector or Sub-Inspector under the Bihar and Orissa
Excise Act 2 of 1915 upon whom all the powers of a police officer were
conferred is entitled to investigate any offence under the Excise Act and to
submit a charge-sheet and on that account he must be regarded as a police
officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act. The Court
observed that the object of enacting Section 25 of the Evidence Act was to
eliminate from consideration confessions made to an officer who by virtue of
his position, could extract by force, torture or inducement a confession, and
an Excise Officer acting under Section 78 (3) of the Bihar and Orissa Excise
Act, 1915, was in the same position as an officer in charge of a police
station making an investigation under Ch. XIV of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, and had the same opportunities of extracting a confession from a
suspect.

8\. In B. J. Savant v. Mysore this Court held that the officer empowered under
the Central Excise and Salt Act 1 of 1944 and when making enquiries for
purposes of that Act invested with powers of an officer-in-charge of a police
station investigating a cognizable offence, is not a police officer within the
meaning of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, and the statement of an
accused person recorded by him is not hit by that section. The Court in that
case distinguished the decision in Raja Ram Jaiswal's case and observed that a
Central Excise Officer was invested with powers of an officer-in-charge of a
police station when investigating a cognizable offence, but he had no power to
submit a report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and on
that account he was not a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of
the Evidence Act.

9\. In P. Shanker Lall v. The Assistant Collector of Customs, Madras (1907)
Criminal Appeals Nos. 52 and 104 of 1065, decided on December 12, 1967
(Supreme Court), Sikri, J., delivering the judgment of the Court observed that
a confession made before the Assistant Collector of Customs was not
inadmissible under Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act.

10\. Counsel for Mehta contended that a Customs Officer who has power to
detain, to arrest, to produce the person arrested before a Magistrate, and to
obtain an order for remand and keep him in his custody with a view to examine
the person so arrested and other persons to collect "evidence, has
opportunities which a police officer has of extracting confessions from a
suspect, and if the expression police officer be not narrowly understood, a
statement recorded by him of a person who is accused of an offence is
inadmissible by virtue of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act. But the test
for determining whether an officer of customs is to be deemed a police officer
is whether he is invested with all the powers of a police officer qua
investigation of an offence, including the power to submit a report under
Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is not claimed that a
Customs Officer exercising power to make an enquiry may submit a report under
Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

11\. The remaining contention that a person against whom an enquiry is made by
the Customs Officer under the Sea Customs Act is a person accused of an
offence and on that account he cannot be compelled to be made a witness
against himself, and the evidence if any collected by examining him under
Section 171A of the Sea Customs Act is inadmissible has also no substance. By
Article 20(3) of the Constitution a person who is accused of any offence may
not be compelled to be a witness against himself. The guarantee is, it is
true, not restricted to statements made in the witness box. This Court in
State of Bombay v. Kathi Kalu , observed at p. 249:

'To be a witness' means imparting knowledge in respect of relevant facts by an
oral statement or a statement in writing, made or given in Court or otherwise.

'To be a witness' in its ordinary grammatical sense means giving oral
testimony in Court, Case law has gone beyond this strict literal
interpretation of the expression which may now bear a wider meaning, namely,
bearing testimony in Court or out of Court by a person accused of an offence,
orally or in writing.

But in order that the guarantee against testimonial compulsion incorporated in
Article 20(3) may be claimed by a person it has to be established that when he
made the statement sought to be tendered in evidence against him, lie was a
person accused of an offence. Under Section 171A of the Sea Customs Act, a
Customs Officer has power in an enquiry in connection with the smuggling of
goods to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary, to give
evidence or to produce a document or any other thing, and by Clause (3) the
person so summoned is bound to state the truth upon any subject respecting
which he is examined or makes statements and to produce such documents and
other things as may be required. The expression "any person" includes a person
who is suspected or believed to be concerned in the smuggling of goods. But a
person arrested by a Customs Officer because he is found in possession of
smuggled goods or on suspicion that he is concerned in smuggling is not when
called upon by the Customs Officer to make a statement or to produce a
document or thing, a person accused of an offence within the meaning of
Article 20(3) of the Constitution. The steps taken by the Customs Officer are
for the purpose of holding an inquiry under the Sea Customs Act and for
adjudging confiscation of goods dutiable or prohibited and imposing penalties.
The Customs Officer does not at that stage accuse the person suspected of
infringing the provision of the Sea Customs Act with the commission of any
offence. His primary duty is to prevent smuggling and to recover duties of
customs : when collecting evidence in respect of smuggling against a person
suspected of infringing the provisions of the Sea Customs Act, he is not
accusing the person of any offence punishable at a trial before a Magistrate.
In Maqboul Hussain v. State of Bombay (1053) 56 Bom. L.R. 13 S.C. : s.c.
[1953] S.C.R. 730 the Court held that a person against whom an order for
confiscation of goods had been made in proceedings taken by Customs Officer
under Section 167 of the Sea Customs Act and was subsequently prosecuted
before a Magistrate for offences under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act,
1947, could not plead the protection of Article 20(3), since he was not
"prosecuted" before the Customs authorities, and the order for confiscation
was not a "punishment" inflicted by a Court or judicial tribunal within the
meaning of Article 20(3) of the Constitution and the prosecution was not
barred.

12\. In M. P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, District Magistrate, Delhi [1954]
S.C.R. 1077 this Court observed that a compelled production of incriminating
documents by a person against whom a First Information Report under the Code
of Criminal Procedure has been made is testimonial compulsion within the
meaning of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. But a search and seizure of a
document under the provisions of Sections 94 and 96 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure do not amount to compelled production thereof within the meaning of
Article 20(3). It was observed by Jagannadhadas, J., at p. 1087 :

Broadly stated the guarantee in article 20(3) is against 'testimonial
compulsion'...the protection afforded to an accused in so far as it is related
to the phrase 'to be a witness' is not merely in respect of testimonial
compulsion in the Court room but may well extend to compelled testimony
previously obtained from him. It is available therefore to a person against
whom a formal accusation relating to the commission of an offence has been
levelled which in the normal course may result in prosecution.

13\. The Court further observed that the guarantee under Article 20(3) is
available to the petitioners against whom a First Information Report had been
recorded.

14\. In Raja Narayanlal Bansilal v. Maneck Fhiroz Mistry admissibility of a
statement made before an Inspector appointed by the Government of India under
the Indian Companies Act, 1913, to investigate the affairs of a Company and to
report thereon was canvassed. It was observed at p. 436 :

... one of the essential conditions for invoking the constitutional guarantee
enshrined in Article 20(3) is that a formal accusation relating to the
commission of an offence, which would normally lead to his prosecution, must
have been levelled against the party who is being compelled to give evidence
against himself;

Sinha, C. J., speaking for the majority of the Court in Kathi Kalu Oghad's
case stated that (p. 249):

To bring the statement in question within the prohibition of Article 20(3),
the person accused must have stood in the character of an accused person at
the time he made the statement. It is not enough that he should become an
accused, any time after the statement has been made.

15\. In the two earlier cases, M. P. Shanna's case and Raja Narayanlal
Bansilal's case, this Court in describing a person accused used the expression
"against whom a formal accusation had been made," and in Kathi Kalu Oghad's
case this Court used the expression "the person accused must have stood in the
character of an accused person." Counsel for Mehta urged that the earlier
authorities were superseded in Kathi Kalu Oghad's case and it was ruled that a
statement made by a person standing in the character of a person accused of an
offence is inadmissible by virtue of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. But
the Court in Kathi Kalu Oghad's case has not set out a different test for
determining the stage when a person may be said to be accused of an offence.
In Kathi Kalu Oghad's case the Court merely set out the principles in the
light of the effect of a formal accusation on a person, viz., that he stands
in the character of an accused person at the time when he makes the statement.
Normally a person stands in the character of an accused when a First
Information Report is lodged against him in respect of an offence before an
Officer competent to investigate it, or when a complaint is made relating to
the commission of an offence before a Magistrate competent to try or send to
another Magistrate for trial the offence; where a Customs Officer arrests a
person and informs that person of the grounds of his arrest (which he is bound
to do under Article 22(i) of the Constitution) for the purposes of holding an
enquiry into the infringement of the provisions of the Sea Customs Act which
he has reason to believe has taken place, there is no formal accusation of an
offence. In the case of an offence by infringement of the Sea Customs Act and
punishable at the trial before a Magistrate there is an accusation when a
complaint is lodged by an officer competent in that behalf before the
Magistrate.

16\. The decision of this Court in Bhagwandas Goenha v. The Union of India
(1903) Criminal Appeals Nos. 131 and 132 of 1961, decided, on September 20,
1963 (Supreme Court) lays down no principle inconsistent with the view we have
expressed. In Bhagwandas Goenka's case the appellant was charged with using a
sum of 4,000 dollars borrowed by him when he was on a visit to the United
States of America and with depositing cheques of the value of 500 dollars with
a foreign bank in which he had an account, and thereby infringing Section 4
(1) and (3) read with Section 23 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. 7 of
1947. At the trial before a Magistrate the appellant contended that the
information demanded and obtained from him on September 19, 1952 and May 14,
1953 by the Reserve Bank of India under Section 19 of the Foreign Exchange
Regulation Act with respect to the two sums was inadmissible. This Court
negatived the contention observing that no information was collected from the
accused after July 4, 1955, when he was asked to show cause by the Reserve
Bank why he should not be prosecuted for contravention of the various
provisions of the Act with respect to the two sums. The Court observed:

The information collected under Section 19 is for the purpose of seeing
whether a prosecution should be launched or not. At that stage when
information is being collected there is no accusation against the person from
whom information is being collected. It may be that after the information has
been collected the Central Government or the Reserve Bank may come to the"
conclusion that there is no case for prosecution and the person concerned may
never be accused. It cannot therefore be predicated that the person from whom
information is being collected under Section 19 is necessarily in the position
of an accused. The question whether he should be made an accused is generally
decided after the information is collected and it is when a show cause notice
is issued, as was done in this case on July 4,1955, that it can be said that a
formal accusation has been made against the person concerned. We are therefore
of the opinion that the appellant is not entitled to the protection of Article
20(8) with respect to the information that might have been collected from him
under Section 19 before July 4, 1955.

Under Section 19 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, it is open to
the Central Government or the Reserve Bank of India, if it considers necessary
or expedient, to obtain and examine any information, book or other document in
the possession of any person or which in the opinion of the Central Government
or the Reserve Bank it is possible for such person to obtain and furnish, by
order in writing, to require any such person to furnish, or to obtain and
furnish, to the Central Government or the Reserve Bank or any person specified
in the order with such information, book or other document. The information
which was asked for and obtained in Bhagwandas Goenha's case under Section 19
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act was not held to be information obtained
in violation of Article 20(3) of the Constitution, for the accusation in the
view of the Court was made against the appellant for the first time on July 4,
1955, when the Reserve Bank of India called for an explanation of the;
appellant why he should not be prosecuted for contravention of the various
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. Under the proviso to
Section 23 (3) of that Act it is enacted that "where any such offence is the
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or any rule, direction or
order made thereunder which prohibits the doing of an act without permission,
no such complaint shall be made unless the person accused of the offence has
been given an opportunity of showing that he had such permission". In the
light of the proviso the Court assumed that when an authority which is
statutorily authorised and bound to call for an explanation before a complaint
is filed, serves a formal notice calling for explanation, a formal accusation
may be deemed to be made. But that is not the position in the present case.

17\. In our judgment the view expressed by Sinha J., in Calcutta M. & C. Co,
v. Collector of Customs that a proceeding under Section 171-A of the Sea
Customs Act, 1878, being preliminary to a criminal trial any statement
procured would be inadmissible under Article 20(3) there being a formal
accusation relating to the commission of an offence which in the normal course
may result in prosecution, is not correct. Opinion of the Court recorded in
appeal from that judgment in Collector of Customs v. Cal. Motor & Cycle Co. in
which Chakravarti, C. J., observed that the protection of Article 20(3) avails
even where a person is not formally accused or charged is inconsistent with
the judgments of this Court already referred, and cannot also be accepted as
correct.

18\. The views expressed by the Madras High Court in Collector of Customs v.
Kotumal that :

...the bar under Article 20(3) of the Constitution will not be available to
the statements in this case, since it is not in dispute that they have been
recorded only during an investigation undertaken by the Customs Officer under
Sections 107 and 108 of the Customs Act of 1952 and at a time when the
deponents did not stand in the position of accused in the light of the
principles stated in the decisions cited above.

and by the Bombay High Court in Lawman Padma v. State (1964) 67 Bom. L.R. 317
that a person examined under Section 171-A of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, does
not stand in the character of an accused person inasmuch as there is no formal
accusation made against him by any person at that time are, in our judgment,
substantially correct.

19\. We, therefore, agree with the High Court that the statements made by
Mehta and the other persons accused before the Additional District Magistrate,
24 Parganas, were not inadmissible in evidence because of the protection
granted under Article 20(3) of the Constitution.

Criminal Appeal No. 45 of 1968.

20\. On March 6, 1963, six parcels containing watches were seized by the
Customs authorities at Santa Cruz Airport, Bombay. The Customs authorities
recorded statements of the appellant Chitnis and attached certain documents
from him. Thereafter the Customs authorities filed a complaint against Chitnis
and thirteen others for offences under Section 120B, Indian Penal Code read
with Section 167 (81) of the Sea Customs Act, and Section 185 of the Customs
Act, 1962 read with Section 109, Indian Penal Code alleging that, between
August 15, 1952 and January 28, 1963, and between February 5, 1963 and March
6, 19J33, the offenders had imported watches and had on that account committed
offences under Section 120B, Indian Penal Code read with Section 167 (81) of
Sea Customs Act, and Section 120, Indian Penal Code read with Section 135 of
the Customs Act, 1962, read with Section 109, Indian Penal Code respectively.
At the trial the prosecutor tendered in evidence certain statements made
before the Customs authorities by the accused. The advocate for the accused
objected to the admissibility of those statements. The trial Magistrate
rejected the contention and in a revision application filed before the High
Court of Bombay the order passed by the Presidency Magistrate was confirmed.

Criminal Appeal No. 46 of 1968.

21\. Dady Adarji Fatakia was arrested on December 26, 1964. At that time he
was found in possession of 540 watches. He was served with a summons under
Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962, and he made a statement before a Customs
Officer. Thereafter a complaint was filed before the Presidency Magistrate,
Bombay, against Fatakia for offences under Section 185 (a) and (b) of the
Customs Act, 1962. At the trial the public prosecutor supplied to the accused
copies of the statements made by Fatakia. The accused Fatakia then applied to
the Magistrate that the statements if tendered in evidence would be
inadmissible because they were inadmissible under Section 25 of the Evidence
Act or Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or under Article 20(3) of
the Constitution. The contentions were negatived by the Magistrate and in a
revision application to the High Court the order of the Presidency Magistrate
was confirmed.

Criminal Appeal No. 47 of 1968.

22\. On May 80, 1965, the Customs Officers seized 11,000 tolas of gold from a
room in the occupation of the appellant Poonamchand and then recorded his
statement after serving him with a summons under Section 108 of the Customs
Act, 1962. A complaint was filed against the appellant and two others in the
Court of Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate, 8th Court, Bombay, under
Section 120B, Indian Penal Code and Section 135 of the Customs Act, and Rule
126P(2)(II) and (IV) of the Defence of India Rules and Rule 126P(2)(II) and
(IV) of the Defence of India Rules read with Section 109, Indian Penal Code
and Section 185 of the Customs Act, 1962 read with Section 109, Indian Penal
Code. At the trial evidence was given by the Superintendent, Central Excise,
Marine and Preventive Division, that the persons accused had made certain oral
statements in his presence admitting their complicity in smuggling gold. An
application by Poonamchand raising the contention that the statements were
inadmissible under Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act and Article 20(3) of
the Constitution was rejected on the ground that the application was
premature. A revision application was then filed in the High Court and it was
heard with the other petitions and was rejected.

23\. In the three appeals Nos. 45, 46 and 47 of 1968 the statements were made
to or recorded before the Customs Officers in an enquiry made under the
Customs Act, 1902. It was urged on behalf of the appellants that the
statements made before the Customs Officers exercising power under the Customs
Act, 1962 are inadmissible at the trial of a person accused of an offence
under the Customs Act, 1962, because of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and
Article 20(3) of the Constitution.

24\. The scheme of the Customs Act, 1962, relating to searches, seizure and
arrest, and confiscation of goods and conveyances and imposition of penalties
may be briefly examined. Under Sections 100 and 101 a Customs Officer has
power to search any person to whom these sections apply if the officer has
reason to believe that such person has secreted about his person, any goods
liable to confiscation or any documents relating thereto. Section 104 confers
upon the Customs Officer power to arrest if he had reason to believe that any
person in India or within the Indian Customs waters has been guilty of an
offence punishable under Section 135. Every person so arrested must be
informed of the grounds for such arrest. Section 105 authorises any Assistant
Collector of Customs to search any premises if he has reason to believe that
goods liable to confiscation, or any documents or things which, in his
opinion, will be useful for or relevant to any proceeding under the Act, are
secreted in any place, he may authorise any officer of customs to search or
may himself search for such goods, documents or things. Under Section 104(3)
where an officer of customs has arrested any person under Sub-section (1) he
shall, for the purpose of releasing such person on bail or otherwise, have the
same powers and be subject to the same provisions as the officer-in-charge of
a police station has and is subject to under the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898. By Section 107 any officer of customs empowered in that behalf by
general or special order of the Collector of Customs may, during the course of
any enquiry in connection with the smuggling of any goods-(a) require any
person to produce or deliver any document or thing relevant to the enquiry;
and (b) examine any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the
case. Section 108 confers upon a gazetted officer of customs the powers to
summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary to give evidence or
to produce a document or any other thing in any enquiry which such officer is
making in connection with the smuggling of goods. The person so summoned is
bound to attend and to state the truth upon any subject respecting which he is
examined or make statements and produce such documents and other things as may
be required, and every such inquiry shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of Sections 198 and 228 of the Indian Penal
Code. Section 110 authorises the proper officer to seize such goods as he has
reason to believe are liable to confiscation under the Act. Sections 111 to
127 deal with confiscation of goods and conveyances and with imposition of
penalties. An appeal lies to the appropriate authority at the instance of a
person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under the Act within the time
specified under Section 128. Under Section 130 the Central Board of Revenue
may exercise revisional powers in respect of orders passed by the Subordinate
Customs authorities and Section 131 authorises the Central Government on the
application of any person aggrieved by certain orders specified therein to
exercise the power to annul or modify such orders. Sections 132 to 139 deal
with offences and prosecution. Section 135 provides, insofar as it is material
:

Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any
person-

(a) is in relation to any goods in any way knowingly concerned in any
fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion of any duty chargeable thereon or of
any prohibition for the time being imposed under this Act or any other law for
the time being in force with respect to such goods, or

(b) acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing,
depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing or in any
other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to believe
are liable to confiscation under section 111, he shall be punishable,-

(i) ...

(ii) ...

25\. Section 187, insofar as it is material, provides :

(1) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 182, section
189 section 184 or section 185, except with the previous sanction of the
Collector of Customs.

(2) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 186,-

(a) where the offence is alleged to have been committed by an officer of
customs not lower in rank than Assistant Collector of Customs, except with the
previous sanction of the Central Government;

(b) ...

26\. The Customs Act 52 of 1962 invests the Customs Officer with the power to
search a person and to arrest him, to search premises, to stop and search
conveyances, and to examine persons, and also with the power to summon persons
to give evidence and to produce documents and seizure of goods, documents and
things which are liable to confiscation. He is also invested with the power to
release a person on bail. He is entitled to order confiscation of smuggled
goods and impose penalty on persons proved to be guilty of infringing the
provisions of the Act. It is implicit in the provisions of Section 137 that
the proceedings before a Magistrate can only be commenced by way of a
complaint and not on a report made by a Customs Officer.

27\. In certain matters the Customs Act of 1962 differs from the Sea Customs
Act of 1878. For instance, under the Sea Customs Act search of any place could
not be made by a Customs Officer of his own accord: he had to apply for and
obtain a search warrant from a Magistrate, Under Section 105 of the Customs
Act, 1962, it is open to the Assistant Collector of Customs himself to issue a
search warrant. A proper officer is also entitled under that Act to stop and
search conveyances : he is entitled to release a person on bail, and for that
purpose has the same powers and is subject to the same provisions as the
officer in charge of a police station is. But these additional powers with
which the Customs Officer is invested under the Act of 1962 do not, in our
judgment, make him a police officer within the meaning of Section 25 of the
Evidence Act. He is, it is true, invested with the powers of an officer-in-
charge of a police station for the purpose of releasing any person on bail or
otherwise. The expression "or otherwise" does not confer upon him the power to
lodge a report before a Magistrate under Section 178 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. Power to grant bail, power to collect evidence, and power to search
premises or conveyances without recourse to a Magistrate, do not make him an
officer-in-charge of a police station. Proceedings taken by him are for the
purpose of holding an enquiry into suspected cases of smuggling. His orders
are appealable and are subject also to the revisional jurisdiction of the
Central Board of Revenue and may be carried to the Central Government. Powers
are conferred upon him primarily for collection of duty and prevention of
smuggling. He is for all purposes an officer of the revenue.

28\. For reasons set out in the judgment in Criminal Appeal No. 27 of 1967 and
the judgment of this Court in B. J. Savant's case, we are of the view that a
Customs Officer is under the Act of 1962 not a police officer within the
meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and the statements made before him
by a person who is arrested or against whom an inquiry is made are not covered
by Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act.

29\. It was strenuously urged that under Section 104 of the Customs Act, 1962,
the Customs Officer may arrest a person only if he has reason to believe that
any person in India or within the Indian Customs waters has been guilty of an
offence punishable under Section 185 and not otherwise and he is bound to
inform such person of the grounds of his arrest. Arrest of the person who is
guilty of the offence punishable under Section 185 and information to be given
to him amount, it was contended, to a formal accusation of an offence and in
any case the person who has been arrested and who has been informed of the
nature of the infraction committed by him stands in the character of an
accused person. We are unable to agree with that contention. Section 104(1)
only prescribes the conditions in which the power of arrest may be exercised.
The officer, must have reason to believe that a person has been guilty of an
offence punishable under Section 135, otherwise he cannot arrest such person.
But by informing such person of the grounds of his arrest the Customs Officer
does not formally accuse him with the commission of an offence. Arrest and
detention are only for the purpose of holding effectively an inquiry under
Sections 107 and 108 of the Act with a view to adjudging confiscation of
dutiable or prohibited goods and imposing penalties. At that stage there is no
question of the offender against the Customs Act being charged before a
Magistrate. Ordinarily after adjudging penalty and confiscation of goods for
without doing so, if the Customs Officer forms an opinion that the offender
should be prosecuted he may prefer a complaint in the manner provided under
Section 137 with the sanction of the Collector of Customs and until a
complaint is so filed the person against whom an inquiry is commenced under
the Customs Act does not stand in the character of a person accused of an
offence under Section 135.

30\. Section 167 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, contained a large number of
clauses which described different kinds of infractions and different penalties
or punishments liable to be imposed in respect of those infractions. Under the
Customs Act, 1962 the Customs Officer is authorised to confiscate goods
improperly imported into India and to impose penalties in cases contemplated
by Sections 112 and 113. But on that account the basic scheme of the Sea
Customs Act, 1878, is not altered. The Customs Officer even under the Act of
1962 continues to remain a revenue officer primarily concerned with the
detection of smuggling and enforcement and levy of proper duties and
prevention of entry into India of dutiable goods without payment of duty and
of goods of which the entry is prohibited. He does not on that account become
either a police officer, nor does the information conveyed by him, when the
person guilty of an infraction of the law is arrested, amount to making of an
accusation of an offence against the person so guilty of infraction. Even
under the Act of 1962 a formal accusation can only be deemed to be made when a
complaint is made before a Magistrate competent to try the person guilty of
the infraction under Sections 182, 133, 184 and 185 of the Act. Any statement
made under Sections 107 and 108 of the Customs Act by a person against whom an
enquiry is made by a Customs Officer is not a statement made by a person
accused of an offence.

31\. Before parting with the case, we must observe that this Court has been
invited in this group of appeals to consider the question of admissibility of
evidence before the trial was completed. At various stages of argument counsel
asked us to make several assumptions on matters of evidence which were not
before this Court. In some cases the statements made by the accused before the
Customs Officer were tendered in evidence and were objected to; in other cases
even before the statements were tendered in evidence, objections were raised.
We may also observe that we are not concerned in these appeals to decide
whether the statements relied upon were obtained from persons charged with
infraction of the provisions of the Customs Act by officers having authority
over them, by inducement, threat or promise having reference to the inquiry
made against them. These questions, if raised, have to be decided at the trial
of the appellants. The appeals fail and are dismissed.

