

Delhi High Court

The Chancellor Masters & Scholars ... vs Narendera Publishing House And ... on
17 September, 2008

Author: S.Ravindra Bhat

    
    
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    +     I.A. 9823/2005, 51/2006 & 647/2006 in CS(OS) 1656/2005
    
                                             Reserved on: 10.07.2008
                                        Pronounced on   : 17.09.2008
    
    THE CHANCELLOR MASTERS & SCHOLARS
    OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD                                   ..... Plaintiff
    
                             Through Mr. Rajiv Bansal, Advocate
    
                        Versus
    
    NARENDERA PUBLISHING HOUSE AND ORS.                    ..... Defendant
    
                             Through Ms. Pratibha Singh, Mr. Sudeep Chatterjee,
                             Advocates
    
    
    CORAM:
    
    Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat
    
    1.

Whether reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? yes

2\. To be referred to the Reporter or not? yes

3\. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest? yes Mr. Justice S.
Ravindra Bhat

1\. This order will dispose of IA No. 9823/2005, IA No. 647/2006, IA
No.51/2006 preferred under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 and Order 39 Rule 4 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908, respectively. The plaintiff allegs violation of
copyright in its literary work and seeks an order restraining the defendants
from infringing its copyright.

CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 1

2\. The plaintiff is a well-known publisher of academic books, and started
publishing in India in 1912. It has established show rooms in different places
of India. The plaintiff avers to publishing substantial number of school books
for use from Kindergarten to the twelfth standard, with the help of a team of
highly trained and committed editorial, research, production and marketing
professionals. These books cover most disciplines including science,
mathematics, languages, humanities and economics, for most Educational Boards
including CBSE and ICSE.

3\. The plaintiff has published, in two parts, a text book for the students of
Class XI, following the course structure prescribed by the Jammu & Kashmir
State Board of School Education, i.e. ―Oxford Mathematics Part A‖ and ―Oxford
Mathematics Part B‖ (herein after referred to as ‗the textbooks'). The
plaintiff published them in collaboration with the Jammu and Kashmir State
Board of School Education (hereafter ‗the Board'). The plaintiff and the Board
entered into an agreement on 26.08.03 for such purpose, and the copyright in
the said textbooks vested with the former. The textbooks are specially adapted
editions of books authored by one Dr. A.K. Roy of which the copyright vests in
the plaintiff through an agreement. It is averred that the said Dr. Roy has
employed great efforts and research in the books so that they are effective in
the study and understanding of mathematics.

CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 2

4\. It is further averred that the exercises, their scheme, the answers,
placement of topics in the textbooks are unique to the plaintiff and are a
result of years of research, hard work, practice and the standard followed by
reputed institutions the world over. Every unit in a chapter is so arranged
that it is integral and complimentary to others. The contents of the
textbooks, it is averred, involve application of substantial skill, judgment,
labour and investment of time and money. The units are streamlined for faster
progress. The textbooks have maximum clarity with fresh modern designs. The
key features of the textbooks are that they have been designed to enable the
learner to develop a thorough understanding of basic mathematical principal
and processes. Introductions to each chapter reviews the concepts learnt
earlier. Graded solved examples develop problem- solving techniques. Short
exercise drills are interspersed within a chapter after each major topic.
Miscellaneous exercises have been provided at the end of each chapter. Even
model test papers have been provided at the end of the book to provide the
students a feel of the examination. All this, the plaintiffs claim, make each
textbook an original literary work within the meaning of the Copyright Act,
1957 (hereafter ‗the Act'). It is also averred that the author by a memorandum
of Agreement has assigned to the plaintiff the entire copyright in the subject
work during the legal term of copyright and the renewals thereof. All rights
in the subject work are reserved in favour of the plaintiff. Further, it is
claimed that no part of the textbooks can stored CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 3 in a
retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior
permission in writing given by the plaintiff, or as expressly permitted by
law.

5\. The plaintiffs allege that in 2005 they came to know about the existence
of guide books entitled ―Teach yourself mathematics (Fully Solved) Part A‖ and
―Teach yourself mathematics (Fully Solved) Part B‖ published by the defendants
(hereafter ‗the guides'), in which the latter have, brazenly violated
plaintiff's copyright, and reproduced contents of the plaintiff's books. The
infringing books, it is stated, has been published, ―to help those students
who prefer to mug up the solutions/answers rather than seriously taking the
course through text books‖. It is further claimed that the defendants books
have immensely hampered not only the sale of the plaintiff's subject work but
has also ―gravely prejudiced the interest of the students at large‖. The
Plaintiffs aver that the defendants have slavishly reproduced the exercises
and their solutions/answers from the subject work and thus made their
infringing publication a poor and degrading substitute to the plaintiff's
subject work. It is also alleged that such reproduction by the defendants
shows a deliberate and malicious intent and design on their part to
misappropriate, trade upon and derive benefit from its reputation and goodwill
and the copyright in the subject work, enjoyed exclusively by them, worldwide
The plaintiffs, therefore, seek an order of interim injunction restraining the
defendants from infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs in CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 4 relation to the textbooks. This Court had, granted an ex-
parte injunction; the defendants move for its vacation.

6\. Mr. Rajiv Bansal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff,
contends that the defendants have indulged in a brazen word-to-word copying of
the questions, in the textbooks. The plaintiff, it was urged, had given
answers to the questions in the exercises, but did not provide the detailed
step-by-step process to arrive such answers. The questions, their arrangement
and the sequencing, in the defendants' guides are identical to the plaintiff's
textbooks. He argued that the questions form a valuable and central part of
the work, and their substantial copying by the defendants amounts to violation
of the plaintiff's copyright. He submitted that authors of the guides have
saved time and money by relying on the plaintiff's work and their use of the
‗original' questions is not incidental. He further argued that guides compete
with the original textbooks for market share, and are prepared and sold for
commercial purposes. Therefore, he contended that in the absence of a
restraint order, the guides would gravely injure the plaintiff's commercial
interest.

7\. Learned counsel next contended that questions, their arrangement and their
selection should be considered original literary works under the Act, and
therefore, are entitled to copyright protection. He placed reliance on the oft
quoted University London Press v. University Tutorial Press [1916] 2 Ch. 601,
to assert that question papers are literary works and that copyright CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 5 could vest in questions. He argued that though there can be a
pool of common knowledge and questions from which the questions are drawn, the
fact that the questions were not copied and emanated from the author is
sufficient enough for the grant of copyright protection. He placed reliance on
the judgment reported as Syndicate Press of the University of Cambridge v. BD
Bhandari, 2005 (31) PTC 58 (Del), to assert that the defense of fair use under
section 52 cannot be extended to cases where there is verbatim copy of the
questions and the answer key. Further, it was held that guide books like the
ones in that case, could not be categorized as reviews and criticism of the
original work. Also, the exception under Section 52 (1)(h) applied only if the
reproduction is made as a part of the questions and answers in an examination.
Reliance was placed on Mishra Bandhu Karyalaya v. S Koshal, AIR 1970 MP 261;
Agarwala Publishing House v. Board of High School and Intermediate Education,
AIR 1967 All 91 and Jadish Prasad v. Parmeshwar Prasad, AIR 1966 Pat 33 to
contend that questions are original literary works and copyright can subsist
even if such questions are part of a prescribed syllabus, so long the author
employed labour and skill in their publication. Lastly, reliance was also
placed on Blackwood & Sons v. Parasuraman, AIR 1959 Mad 410, to contend that
the plaintiff need not prove any oblique motive or intention to copy on the
part of the defendants, so long the copying involved substantial and vital
portions, that is the copying was both quantitative and qualitative.

CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 6

8\. The defendants contend that the present case is a one of fair use. It is
averred that preparation of a guide book, which independently contains the
working of every mathematical problem and steps for solving them, cannot be
termed an infringement of the textbook. The plaintiff's books do not have any
step-by-step working for the various sums at the end of each chapter. It is
also averred that the defendants have not copied the contents of each lesson
or chapter. Further, it is averred that all students are well aware that the
defendant's publications are guide books whereas the plaintiff's publications
are textbooks.

9\. It is averred that the defendants' books are an independent creation by
Prof. Harish Sharma who is a known Mathematics teacher. He has solved the sums
that are contained at the end of each lessons of the plaintiff's prescribed
textbook. The guide does not infringe the copyright of the plaintiff in any
manner whatsoever. The defendants' books are not a substantial reproduction of
the plaintiff's textbooks. A mere comparison of the two in terms of
appearance, contents etc., clearly establishes this. The defendant, relying on
section 52 of the Act, aver that since their books are in the form of answers
to questions contained in the plaintiff's prescribed text book for the
purposes of education, no copyright can be claimed nor infringed. They aver
that various State Boards prescribe textbooks of publishers for students and
there is possibility of existence of several Guide Books for the same
textbook. They only facilitate students' preparation for examinations. If such
CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 7 guide books are not permitted to be published the
result would be contrary to public interest and interest of the student
community.

10\. Ms. Pratibha Singh learned counsel appearing for the defendants, argued
that at least 101 questions appearing in the plaintiff's books are copied or
reproduced from the work another well-known author-Mr. RD Sharma. She drew the
attention of this Court in this regard to the amended written statement and a
comparative table of questions common to the plaintiffs books and the book
authored by the said Mr. RD Sharma. She contended that the questions appearing
in the plaintiff books from part of the common pool of questions used by
authors, schools, guides and students in India, and contended that the nature
of the subject is such that it would be impossible for one author to claim
copyright over a set of questions. She categorized the questions in the
plaintiff's books, their selection and the manner of arrangement as derivative
works, for which a higher standard of creativity must be proved in order for
them to copyrightable. In this regard she relied on Eastern Book Company v.
Modak, (2008) 1 SCC 1. It was argued that since the plaintiff's work cannot
demand any copyright protection, no question of infringement arises.

11\. It was contended that the plaintiff's books have not been pirated or
reproduced verbatim/completely, and therefore, the defendants' actions do not
amount infringement within Section 14 (a) (i)-(v) and (vii). The defendants'
contend that their books would not constitute adaptation under CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 8 section 2 (a), and therefore, cannot be violative of section
14 (a) (vi).

12\. Ms. Pratibha Singh next argued that the such use by the defendants of the
Plaintiff's questions of the plaintiff amounts to fair use under section 52(1)
(a) and 52(1)(h) of the Act, assuming, arguendo, that there is copyright
infringement. She contended that in relation mathematical works, publication
of a guide to solve questions in the plaintiff's work amount to ―review‖, of
the plaintiff's literary work and therefore covered by section 52(1)(a).
Furthermore, the present case also falls under Section 52(1)(h) as the
reproduction of the literary work was as a part of answers to those questions.
She argued that while deciding whether the defendants' books amounted fair
use, one cannot lose sight of the fact that the books are based on the Board's
Syllabi which prescribed the plaintiff's books as exclusive textbooks. She
argued that once the book is declared a part of a syllabus, then, students are
free to use the questions in it any manner and therefore, guide books that
help students solve these questions will also be covered under the fair use
exception to copyright.

13\. Counsel argued, placing reliance on RG Anand v. M/s Delux Films, (1978) 4
SCC 118 that there can be no copyright in ideas and therefore, the questions
per se are not subject matter of copyright. She contended that if the same
ideas were being presented in different manner, even though both the works are
based on the same source, then too it would not amount to infringement. She
submitted that the surest way to find out infringement is CS (OS) 1656/2005
Page 9 to see if the reader having read both the works is clearly of the
opinion that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.

14\. Learned counsel placed reliance on the various judgments to assert that
the publication of guide books to help students study and answer questions
amounts to fair use under the Act;(Ref. V Ramaiah v. K Lakshmaiah (1989) PTC
137; EM Forster v. AN Parasuraman AIR 1964 Mad 331; Kartar Singh Giani v.
Ladha Singh, AIR 1934 Lah 777 and Romesh Chowdhry v. Ali Mohamad Nowsheri, AIR
1965 J&K 101). Therefore, she argued that such use by the defendants of the
questions that appear in the plaintiffs books, constitute fair dealing under
section 52 and the injunction must be vacated.

15\. Two primary issues need to be gone into at this stage. First is whether
that part of the work of the plaintiff, which the defendants have reproduced,
prima facie merits copyright protection. Secondly, if it does, have the
defendants sufficiently made out a ‗fair dealing' or a ‗fair use' defence at
this stage.

I. The Idea-Expression Dichotomy and the Doctrine of „Merger‟

16\. A foundational element of copyright law is that it does not grant the
author of a literary work protection on ideas and facts. (Baker v. Seldon, 101
US 99 [1879], Nichols v. Universal Pictures Corp., 45 F.2d (2d Cir. 1930), RG
Anand v. M/s Delux Films, (1978) 4 SCC 118) It is only the creative CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 10 expression of such ideas and facts that is rewarded by law,
by conferring a privilege to exclusively exploit such expression for a limited
time. Law does not protect every such expression. The law affords protection
to expressions that are fixed in a medium and are ―original‖. In India Section
13 of the Copyright Act states that only ―original‖ literary, artistic,
dramatic and musical works are subject matter of copyright. A literary work,
in order to qualify as work in which copyright can subsist, must therefore be
original.

17\. The content of what is meant by ‗originality' has undergone a paradigm
shift from the days of ―sweat of the brow' doctrine enunciated in University
of London Press (supra) to the ‗modicum of creativity' standard put forth in
Fiest Publication Inc. Vs. Rural Telephone Service, 199 US 340 (1991). The
Supreme Court too recognized this shift and in Eastern Book Company v. DB
Modak (supra), following the approach laid down by the Canadian Supreme Court
in CCH Canadian Ltd., Vs. Law Society of Upper Canada (2004) SCC 13, rejected
the sweat of the brow doctrine, (which conferred copyright on works merely
because time, energy, skill and labour was expended, that is, originality of
skill and labour), and held that the work must be original "in the sense that
by virtue of selection, co-ordination or arrangement of pre-existing data
contained in the work, a work somewhat different in character is produced by
the author". It is noteworthy that our Supreme Court noticed that the two
positions i.e. the sweat of the brow on the one hand, and ―modicum of
creativity‖ were extreme positions; it CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 11 preferred a
higher threshold than the doctrine of ―sweat of the brow‖ but not as high as
―modicum of creativity‖. Thus, our law too has recognized the shift, and
mandates that not every effort or industry, or expending of skill, results in
copyrightable work, but only those which create works that are somewhat
different in character, involve some intellectual effort, and involve a
certain degree of creativity. It is in the light of this standard of
originality, that the plaintiffs claim to copyright in the questions as well
the copyright in the arrangement of the exercises in each chapter and the
internal arrangement of questions therein, needs closer scrutiny.

18\. An aspect peculiar to copyright law, is the ‗doctrine of merger,' is
involved in this case. This doctrine posits that where the idea and expression
are intrinsically connected, and that the expression is indistinguishable from
the idea, copyright protection cannot be granted. Applying this doctrine
courts have refused to protect the expression of an idea that can be expressed
only one manner, or in a very restricted manner, because doing so would confer
monopoly on the idea itself. The decision in Herbert Rosenthal Jewelry
Corporation v. Kalpakian, 446 F.2d 738(1971) is illustrative in this regard.
In that case the plaintiffs sued the defendants asking them to refrain from
manufacturing bee shaped jewel pins. The Court held that the jewel shaped bee
pin was a an idea that anyone was free to copy, the expression of which could
be possible only in a few ways, therefore, no copyright could subsist in it.

CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 12

19\. The decisions relied on by the plaintiff [Mishra Bandhu (supra) &
Agarwala Publishing House (supra)] to assert that copyright can vest in
questions and question papers too, are all prior to the decision in Eastern
Book Company (supra). Besides the fact the standard for conferring copyright
protection since University of London (supra) has undergone dramatic
transformation, the facts of that case in relation to the doctrine of fair
dealing can be distinguished on the ground that the allegedly infringing work
in that case contained merely the answers and not the solutions to the
questions. This fact was noted and emphasized by that Court also.

20\. In the present case, the plaintiff's claim concerns mathematical
questions and answers. Besides asserting the work put in by Dr. Roy, and the
effort in arranging such questions at appropriate stages, chapters or units in
the textbooks, the plaintiff do not show how such effort is original to
conform to the minimum degree of creativity mandated by Indian law, post
Eastern Book Company (supra). Mathematical questions are expression of laws of
nature. The ―discovery‖ of such laws cannot confer monopoly to those who
describe it. The reason is that language is a limited medium, which enables
description of such laws of nature - in only a few ways. Recognition of
copyright as inhering in the questions themselves (as the plaintiff suggest
the court to do), without existence of the ―creative‖ element of originality
would deny access to ideas, thus robbing one of the primary objectives of
copyright law (promotion of creativity) of vitality, thereby stifling
intellectual CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 13 growth. Interestingly, section 3 (k) of
the Patents Act, 1970 explicitly denies any form of patent protection to a
mathematical method or algorithms. Prima facie, Parliament could not have
intended that innovations such as new mathematical questions, denied benefit
of patent protection--which if granted is of restricted duration--could be
refused, but a wider protection in time, by way of copyright, could have been
granted.

21\. As far as the sequencing and schematic arrangement of the questions

\- in the various chapters is concerned - the plaintiff say that the textbook
conforms to the specifications and requirements of the J& K Board. Here, the
plaintiffs had to show original effort, unique to their schematic arrangement
or sequencing. In education, the dictates of the ―learning content‖ are such
that each level demands a ―curve‖. These ―learning content‖ and ―learning
curve‖ elements are inherent in the syllabi evolved by examination bodies such
as J & K Board or the CBSE. The plaintiff therefore, had to show how it
evolved an arrangement so unique that the scheme is entitled to copyright
protection, independent of the dictates of the Board. The involvement of the
Board, in the creation of the syllabus, negates such originality. This is not
to suggest that there can be no creativity the such schematic arrangement; the
court merely infers that prima facie there is no material in support of it;
the plaintiff have made no attempt to show this creativity, apart from placing
the textbooks on the record. For those reasons, this court prima facie is of
the opinion that the plaintiffs' claim of copyright in questions, answers, and
their CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 14 requiring or arrangement, is insubstantial.

II. The Fair Use defense

22\. The next question is whether such copying will be covered under the fair
use exemption provided under Section 52 of the Act, assuming that the
plaintiffs prima facie have established a copyright claim. Relevant parts of
Section 52 of the Act are extracted below:

> Section 52 \- Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright The following
> acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright, namely:--

> (a) a fair dealing with a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work not
> being a computer programme] for the purposes of-

> (i) Private use including research;

> (ii) criticism or review, whether of that work or of any other work;

> XXXXXXXXXX

> (h) the reproduction of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work-

> (i) by a teacher or a pupil in the course of instruction; or

> (ii) as part of the questions to be answered in an examination; or

> (iii) in answers, to such questions;

> 23\. The doctrine of fair use or fair dealing is an integral part of
> copyright law. It permits reproduction of the copyrighted work or use in a
> manner, which, but for the exception carved out would have amounted to
> infringement of the copyright. In a seminal article published in 1990 Judge
> Pierre N Leval, wrote:

> "The doctrine of fair use need not be so mysterious or dependent on
> intuitive judgments. Fair use should be perceived not as a CS (OS) 1656/2005
> Page 15 disorderly basket of exceptions to the rules of copyright, nor as a
> departure from the principles governing that body of law, but rather as a
> rational, integral part of copyright, whose observance is necessary to
> achieve the objectives of that law....Fair use should not be considered a
> bizarre, occasionally tolerated departure from the grand conception of the
> copyright monopoly. To the contrary, it is a necessary part of the overall
> design. Briefly stated, the use must be of a character that serves the
> copyright objective of stimulating productive thought and public instruction
> without excessively diminishing the incentives for creativity".

(TOWARD A FAIR USE STANDARD, 103 HARV. L. REV. 1105 (1990)) One of the
earliest decisions to deal with the doctrine of fair use was Folsom et al. v.
Marsh et al, 9 F. Cas. 342, 1841 US App, where the Supreme Court laid down the
following:

> ―In short, we must often, in deciding questions of this sort, look to the
> nature and objects of the selections made, the quantity and value of the
> materials used, and the degree in which the use may prejudice the sale, or
> diminish the profits, or supersede the objects, of the original work. Many
> mixed ingredients enter into the discussion of such questions. In some
> cases, a considerable portion of the materials of the original work may be
> fused, if I may use such an expression, into another work, so as to be
> undistinguishable in the mass of the latter, which has other professed and
> obvious objects, and cannot fairly be treated as a piracy; or they may be
> inserted as a sort of distinct and mosaic work, into the general texture of
> the second work, and constitute the peculiar excellence thereof, and then it
> may be a clear piracy."

24\. The breadth of the fair use doctrine use was put to test in Harper & Row
v. Nation Enterprises 471 US 539 (1985). Harper had contracted to publish
Presidents Ford's memoirs. In exchange for $ 25,000, Harper allowed Time
Magazine to extract 7500 word passage from the book, which dealt with the
pardon to President Nixon. The Editor of ―Nation‖ Magazine wrote an article
relying on an unauthorized version of the memoir, which reproduced CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 16 300 to 400 words of the passage contracted to the ―Time‖
Magazine. The article in ―Nation‖ appeared before the article in Times and the
latter refused to pay up the balance money to Harper. Harper brought an action
for infringement of copyright, and ―Nation‖ put up a fair use defense. The
Court noted that the four factors identified by Congress (17 U. S. C. §107) as
especially relevant in determining whether the use was fair were: (1) the
purpose and character of the use; (2) the nature of the copyrighted work; (3)
the substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as
a whole; (4) the effect on the potential market for or value of the
copyrighted work and proceeded to test the facts on each of these grounds. In
its analysis, the Court applied much emphasis on the commercial character of
the defendant's use and its implication on the potential market of the
copyrighted work. While doing so it recalled the observations made in Sony
Corp. of America v. Universal City Studios, Inc., 464 US 417 (1984), that
"every commercial use of copyrighted material is presumptively an unfair
exploitation of the monopoly privilege that belongs to the owner of the
copyright". The Court, while fortifying the commercial-non-commercial divide,
held that the fourth factor was the single most important factor while
determining fair use. It is however, important to note the dissenting opinion
of Justice Brennan in this regard. He regarded the majority opinion as
conferring monopoly on historical facts and not merely on the exception. He
cautioned that this approach would prove counter- productive to the very CS
(OS) 1656/2005 Page 17 end of granting copyright protection and observed that:

> "In my judgment, the Court's fair use analysis has fallen to the temptation
> to find copyright violation based on a minimal use of literary form in order
> to provide compensation for the appropriation of information from a work of
> history. The failure to distinguish between information and literary form
> permeates every aspect of the Court's fair use analysis, and leads the Court
> to the wrong result in this case. Application of the statutorily prescribed
> analysis with attention to the distinction between information and literary
> form leads to a straightforward finding of fair use.."

25\. The contours of the fair use standard shifted somewhat with the decision
in Campbell v. Accuff- Rose Music, 510 US 569 (1994). The Supreme Court
unanimously upheld the claim of the defendants that their parody to the
plaintiff's song ―Oh, Pretty Woman‖ was covered by the fair use exception. It
was uncontested that the defendant's song amounted infringement but for the
―fair use‖ exception. The Court held that all the traditional four factors
employed to reach a conclusion of fair use are to be treated together, not in
isolation and no undue preference can be given to any one of them. In relation
to the first factor, it was held that Court must look into the nature of the
use, i.e. whether it was for educational purposes or for review or criticism.
The central enquiry (according to the Court) is to see if the work merely
supercedes and supplants the original work or instead adds something new, with
a further purpose or different character, altering the first with new
expression, meaning, or message; in other words, whether and to what extent
the new work is ‗transformative'. The Court borrowed the latter expression
from Judge Pierre Leval (supra). Transformative works, CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page
18 the Court held, have a greater chance of falling within the fair use
defense and such ‗works thus lie at the heart of the fair use doctrine„s
guarantee of breathing space within the confines of copyright‟. If one may put
it differently, the question to be addressed would be is there a value
addition, which alters the original work in a not insignificant measure. The
second factor, which evaluates the nature of the copyrighted work, is intended
to find out if the work actually merits copyright, that is, whether copyright
law was intended, at its core, to cover such works. However, the Court
cautioned that this factor is not likely ‗to help much in separating the fair
use sheep from the infringing goats', in cases where the subsequent work is
transformative. The third factor, which deals with the extent of copying, the
Court explained citing Sony (supra), does not entail that the reproduction of
the entire work would militate against the finding of fair use. There could be
cases where the copying could be substantial and the courts finds fair use, at
the same time there could be cases where the copying though insubstantial
could be held as infringement. Lastly, the court observed that the fourth
factor, where the market harm to the copyrighted work had to be assessed,
could not be the sole determinative factor. The Courts have to "consider not
only the extent of market harm caused by the particular actions of the alleged
infringer, but also whether unrestricted and widespread conduct of the sort
engaged in by the defendant would result in a substantially adverse impact on
the potential market". The Court went on to hold that the CS (OS) 1656/2005
Page 19 defendants use, was covered by the doctrine of fair use and did not
amount to infringement.

26\. The Court's holding in Campbell, has been followed in Sun Trust Bank v.
Houghton Mifflin, 268 F.3d 1257 (11th Cir.2001) (vacating the injunction on
‗The Wind Done Gone' a fictional work based on Margaret Mitchell's Gone With
the Wind); Bill Graham Archives v. Dorling Kindersley, 2006 US App LEXIS 11593
(holding that reproduction of images appearing in posters and tickets, in a
coffee table biography fall within the fair use exception) and very recently
in Peter Letterese & Associates v. World Institute of Scientology Enterprises,
D.C. Docket No. 04-61178-CV-PCH (July 8, 2008).

27\. In the United Kingdom, in Hubbard v. Vosper, (1972) 2 WLR 389, the Court
while dealing with the question of what amounts to fair use observed as
follows:

> "It is impossible to define what is 'fair dealing'. It must be a question of
> degree. You must consider first the number and extent of the quotations and
> extracts. Are they altogether too many and too long to be fair? Then you
> must consider the use made of them. If they are used as a basis for comment,
> criticism or review, that may be a fair dealing. If they are used to convey
> the same information as the author, for a rival purpose, that may be unfair.
> Next, you must consider the proportions.

> To take long extracts and attach short comments may be unfair. But, short
> extracts and long comments may be fair. Other considerations may come to
> mind also. But, after all is said and done, it must be a matter of
> impression. As with fair comment in the law of libel, so with fair dealing
> in the law of copyright. The tribunal of fact must decide."

> CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 20

> 28\. Indian law too, in relation to copyright infringement is interesting.
> The Supreme Court in RG Anand (supra) had to adjudicate whether the film
> produced by the defendant had in any manner infringed the copyright held by
> the plaintiff in his play. The Court after referring to a number of
> authorities on the subject observed that the same idea might be developed in
> different ways and is the defendants work is nothing but a colourable
> imitation of the plaintiffs work, then it would amount to infringement. It
> set out the following as the test for determining infringement:

> ―One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has
> been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
> viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion
> and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a
> copy of the original."

> Remarkably, the court, presciently in its judgment propounded a principle
> resembling the ‗transformative work' doctrine developed in the United States
> much later. It held that:

> "Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so
> that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
> violation of copyright arises."

> 29\. In Ramaiah (supra), the Andhra Pradesh High Court had to consider
> whether a guide book prepared to help students understand and study a text
> called ‗Girija Kalyanam' amounted to infringement. The Court took note of
> the fact that the guide consisted of three portions, the first of which gave
> meanings to the text. The second portion contained annotations and CS (OS)
> 1656/2005 Page 21 illustrations of the meanings and the third portion
> consisted of probable questions and answers. The Court distinguished the
> facts from that in Blackwood and Sons v. AN Parasuraman (supra), where the
> infringing work merely eliminated certain passages from the original work
> and retained the essential part of the narration in substantial form. Since,
> the guide was found to be much more than a mere replication of the earlier
> work, incorporating questions and answers, analysis etc, the injunction was
> refused.

30\. In EM Forster (supra), the Court had to determine whether a guide
published for the novel ‗A Passage to India' violated the copyright in the
original novel. Here again, the Court noted that there was no verbatim
reproduction of the entire novel. The guide was divided into different
portions, which consisted of an introduction to the characters, the life and
philosophy of EM Forster, a brief introduction to the works of EM Forster and
of course an abridged version of the novel; though not chronological. The
Court observed, referring to Kartar Singh Giani v. Ladha Singh, AIR 1934 Lah
777 that in the guise of copyright law the plaintiff cannot ask the courts to
close all the avenues of research, scholarship and all frontiers of human
knowledge. The court found that the guide did not constitute an infringement
and therefore, did not go into the question of fair dealing. In Romesh
Chowdhry (supra) too, the facts involved publication of guide books to books
published by the University in accordance with its syllabi. The Court found
that the guides were not colourable imitations of the University publications
CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 22 and amounted to criticism and review of those books.
It also observed that since the University in their syllabus published these
books for the students, ―the matter had gone into the hands of the students
and no copyrights on the strict sense of the term remained with the
complainant‖.

31\. The question of fair dealing came up for consideration in Civic Chandran
v. Ammini Amma 1996(16) PTC 670. The defendants had published a play ‗Ningal
Are Communistakki', that was intended to be a critique of a famous play
‗Ningal Enna Communistakki'. The court referred to Hubbard v. Vosper (supra)
and RG Anand and concluded that the play was meant to be a critique and
therefore, constituted fair dealing under section

52\. It observed that the latter work was not market competitor to the prior
work, and by itself constituted a literary work with some amount of
originality. Moreover, the Court held that the nature of the work, that is to
criticize the social structures in Kerala, by itself meant that certain
sequences, events and incidents would be common to both the prior and the
subsequent work, and that the latter was not meant to imitate the former.
Injunction was therefore, denied.

32\. Copyright law is premised on the promotion of creativity through
sufficient protection. On the other hand, various exemptions and doctrines in
copyright law, whether statutorily embedded or judicially innovated, recognize
the equally compelling need to promote creative activity and ensure that the
privileges granted by copyright do not stifle dissemination of CS (OS)
1656/2005 Page 23 information. Two doctrines that could be immediately be
summoned are the idea-expression dichotomy and the doctrine of ―fair use‖ or
fair dealing. Public interest in the free flow of information is ensured
through the idea- expression dichotomy, which ensures that no copyright is
granted in ideas, facts or information. This creates a public pool of
information and idea from which everyone can draw. At the same time, as Judge
Leval observes, all creativity is in part derivative, in that, no creativity
is completely original; ―each advance stands on building blocks fashioned by
prior thinkers‖ (Bernard Shaw expressed it by saying that Shakespeare was a
―tall man‖, but he (Shaw) was taller as he stood Shakespeare's shoulders).
Judge Leval further observed that most important areas of intellectual
creativity like philosophy, literature and sciences are referential, and
require continuous reexamination of existing theses.

33\. The doctrine of fair use then, legitimizes the reproduction of a
copyrightable work. Coupled with a limited copyright term, it guarantees not
only a public pool of ideas and information, but also a vibrant public domain
in expression, from which an individual can draw as well as replenish. Fair
use provisions, then must be interpreted so as to strike a balance between the
exclusive rights granted to the copyright holder, and the often competing
interest of enriching the public domain. Section 52 therefore cannot be
interpreted to stifle creativity, and the same time must discourage blatant
plagiarism. It, therefore, must receive a liberal construction in harmony with
CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 24 the objectives of copyright law. Section 52 of the
Act only details the broad heads, use under which would not amount to
infringement. Resort, must, therefore be made to the principles enunciated by
the courts to identify fair use.

34\. One crucial test, of the four-factor test, as developed by the American
courts, is the transformative character of the use. The Courts should in cases
like the present ask whether the purpose served by the subsequent (or
infringing) work is substantially different (or is the same) from the purpose
served by the prior work. The subsequent work must be different in character;
it must not be a mere substitute, in that, it not sufficient that only
superficial changes are made, the basic character remaining the same, to be
called transformative. This determination, according to the Court is closely
knit with the other three factors, and therefore, central to the determination
of fair use. If the work is transformative, then it might not matter that the
copying is whole or substantial. Again, if it is transformative, it may not
act as a market substitute and consequently, will not affect the market share
of the prior work.

35\. In the present case, this court has considered the plaintiff's textbooks,
as well as the defendant works. The following aspects stand out;

> (a) The plaintiff's textbooks, so far as they contain the ―theory‖ portions,
> have not been copied;
    
    
    CS (OS) 1656/2005                                                         Page 25
           (b)    The plaintiff's books do not contain the steps, or process aiding
    
    

> the solutions (or answers) to the questions/ problems, in each chapter. The
> learner is expected, on the basis of the text and the theory, to apply his
> mind, and solve such problems

> (c) The defendants' copies do not contain the text and the theory portions,
> analyzing the problems;

> (d) The defendants' copies contain the questions as well as answers, which
> are found in the plaintiffs' textbooks;

> (e) The defendants provide the problem solving ―step-by-step‖ method to
> arrive at answers to the questions.

36\. A careful analysis of the above would show that whereas the plaintiffs'
texts do not contain or describe the step-by-step process of arriving at
solutions (answers), the defendants' books provide them. The defendants' books
do not contain the theoretical or explanatory content- they are present in the
plaintiffs' textbooks. The use of questions and answers by the defendants, who
provide the step-by-step process of reasoning, is for a different purpose.
Though to a purist or one who delights in intellectual pursuits, such works
may be distasteful, - even offensive - there is no gainsaying that they
neither pretend to be textbooks, nor reproduce all that are contained in them.
They are designed to cater to a category of student ―weak‖ in their
understanding of the subject.

CS (OS) 1656/2005 Page 26

37\. The purpose and manner of use of the questions found in the plaintiff's
textbooks, by the defendants is thus different; additionally, in their books,
missing in the plaintiff's works are the steps or process of problem solving.
Thus, the defendants' works can be said to be ‗transformative', amounting to
―review‖ under Section 52 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act. Here, the term ―review‖ has
to be interpreted in the context. The plaintiffs claim to copyright is
premised the work being a ―literary‖ one. The review - or commentary, of a
part of such mathematical work - too would have to be seen in the background
of this claim.

38\. ―Review‖ according to the Shorter Oxford Dictionary (Fifth edition) means
―view, inspect or examine a second time or again..‖ In the context of a
mathematical work a review could involve re-examination or a treatise on the
subject. In that sense, the defendants' revisiting the questions, and
assisting the students to solve then, by providing the ―step by step‖
reasoning prima facie amounts to a review, thus falling within the ―fair
dealing‖ provision of Section 52 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act.

39\. For the above reasons, the interim injunction granted is hereby vacated.
IA No. 9823/2005 and IA No.51/2006 are accordingly disposed off. CS(OS)
1656/2005 List before the Joint Registrar on 22nd October, 2008.

    
    
    Dated: 17th September 2008                                  S RAVINDRA BHAT, J
    
    CS (OS) 1656/2005                                                          Page 27
     

