

Supreme Court of India

Shamsher Singh & Anr vs State Of Punjab on 23 August, 1974

Equivalent citations: 1974 AIR 2192, 1975 SCR (1) 814

Author: A Ray

Bench: Ray, A.N. (Cj), Palekar, D.G., Mathew, Kuttyil Kurien, Chandrachud,
Y.V. & Alagiriswami, A., Bhagwati, P.N. & Krishnaiyer, V.R.

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    SHAMSHER SINGH & ANR
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    STATE OF PUNJAB
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT23/08/1974
    
    BENCH:
    RAY, A.N. (CJ)
    BENCH:
    RAY, A.N. (CJ)
    PALEKAR, D.G.
    MATHEW, KUTTYIL KURIEN
    CHANDRACHUD, Y.V.
    ALAGIRISWAMI, A.
    BHAGWATI, P.N.
    KRISHNAIYER, V.R.
    
    CITATION:
     1974 AIR 2192		  1975 SCR  (1) 814
     CITATOR INFO :
     RF	    1975 SC 613	 (45,50)
     RF	    1975 SC 638	 (11)
     F	    1975 SC1096	 (3)
     R	    1975 SC1208	 (24)
     R	    1975 SC1633	 (1)
     F	    1975 SC1755	 (6,7,8)
     RF	    1976 SC1766	 (57)
     R	    1976 SC1841	 (12,18)
     F	    1976 SC1899	 (28)
     RF	    1976 SC2490	 (24)
     RF	    1976 SC2547	 (19,21)
     RF	    1977 SC 451	 (6)
     F	    1977 SC 629	 (6)
     RF	    1977 SC1361	 (169)
     RF	    1977 SC1619	 (13)
     F	    1977 SC2328	 (41)
     D	    1978 SC 363	 (5,11,13)
     R	    1979 SC 193	 (38)
     R	    1980 SC  42	 (12,20)
     RF	    1980 SC1242	 (9)
     RF	    1980 SC1896	 (52)
     RF	    1980 SC2147	 (61)
     RF	    1981 SC 957	 (5)
     R	    1981 SC2138	 (4)
     F	    1982 SC 149	 (134,333,624,696,709,718,794,9
     RF	    1982 SC1029	 (6)
     R	    1984 SC 636	 (11)
     RF	    1984 SC 684	 (55)
     R	    1984 SC1110	 (6)
     E&R	    1985 SC1416	 (58)
     RF	    1986 SC1626	 (27)
     RF	    1986 SC1790	 (11)
     E&R	    1987 SC 331	 (29,32)
     F	    1987 SC1953	 (8)
     R	    1987 SC2106	 (5,6)
     R	    1987 SC2408	 (5)
     R	    1988 SC1388	 (16)
     R	    1990 SC1308	 (25)
     E&R	    1991 SC 101	 (279)
    
    
    ACT:
    President and Governors--Whether formal heads--Whether bound
    to  act on aid and advice of Council  of  Ministers--Artkles
    166(3), 154(1), 53(1) of constitution of India.
    Constitution  of India--Article 311--termination of  service
    by innocuously worded order whether hit by article 311.
    Civil  service	probationer  whether can  be  deemed  to  be
    confirmed on the expiry of probation period.
    Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Rules 1951 rr. 7, 9.
    Constitution  of India Article 235--High Court	whether	 can
    depute	an executive authority to inquire  into	 allegations
    made against subordinate judiciary.
    Constitution   of   India,  Article   234--Appointment	 and
    determination  of  services of subordinate judges if  to  be
    made by Governor personally.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
    The  appellant	Shamsher Singh was a  Subordinate  Judge  on
    probation.   His services were terminated by the  Government
    of  Punjab  in the name of Governor of Punjab  by  an  order
    which did not give any reasons for the termination.
    Likewise,  the	services of Ishwar Chand Agarwal  were	also
    terminated  by	the  Government of Punjab  in  the  name  of
    Governor  on  the  recommendation of the  High	Court.	 The
    appellants    contended	  that	 the   Governor	   as	 the
    constitutional. or the formal head of the State can exercise
    powers	and functions of appointment and removal of  members
    of  the	 subordinate judicial service only  personally.	 the
    appellants placed reliance on the decision of this Court  in
    Sardari	 Lal's case where it is held that  the	satisfaction
    for  making  an	 order under Article  311  is  the  personal
    satisfaction  of the President or the Governor.	 The  State,
    on  the	 other hand, contended that the	 Governor  exercises
    powers	of  appointment and removal conferred on him  by  or
    under  the Constitution like executive powers of  the  State
    Government  only  on the aid and advice of  his	 council  of
    Ministers and not personally.  The Governor is by and  under
    the  Constitution  required  to act  in	 his  discretion  in
    several matters.  Articles where the expression "acts in his
    discretion" is used in relation to the powers and  functions
    of   the   Governor  are  those	 which	speak	of   special
    responsibilities of the Governor.  Our constitution embodies
    generally the parliamentary or cabinet system of  Government
    of  the British model.	Under this system the  President  is
    the constitutional or formal head of the Union and exercises
    his  powers and functions conferred on him by or  under	 the
    Constitution  on  the  aid  and advice	of  his	 council  of
    Ministers.   Under  the cabinet system	of  Government,	 the
    Governor  is the constitutional or formal head of the  State
    and exercises all his powers and functions conferred on	 him
    by  or under the Constitution on the aid and advice  of	 his
    council of Ministers, save in spheres where the Governor  is
    required  by  or  under the  Constitution  to  exercise	 his
    functions in his discretion.  These appeals have been placed
    before	a larger bench to consider whether the	decision  in
    Sardari Lal's case correctly lays down the law.
    It   was  further  contended  that  since  the	 probationer
    continued in service after the expiry of the maximum  period
    of probation he became confirmed that the termination was by
    way  of punishment and was in violation of article 311;	 and
    that the High Court failed to act in terms of the provisions
    of  art. 235 of the Constitution and abdicated	the  control
    over  subordinate  judiciary  by asking	 the  government  to
    enquire through the vigilance department.
    815
    (Per   A.   N.	Ray  C.J.  Palekar,   Mathew,	Chandrachud.
    Alagiriswami, JJ).
    HELD :-The decision in Sardari Lal's case that the President
    has  to	 be satisfied personally in  exercise  of  executive
    power  or function and that the functions of  the  President
    cannot be delegated is not the correct statement of law, and
    is against the established and uniform view of this Court as
    embodied in several decisions.	The President as well as the
    Governor  is  the constitutional head or formal	 head.	 The
    President  as well as the Governor exercises his powers	 and
    functions  conferred on him by or under the Constitution  on
    the  aid  and  advice of his council of	 Ministers  save  in
    spheres	 where	the  Governor is required by  or  under	 the
    Constitution  to exercise his functions in  his	 discretion.
    [833C-F]
    Sardari Lal's case overruled.
    HELD FURTHER : The President or the Governor acts on the aid
    and  advice  of	 the Council of	 Ministers  with  the  Prime
    Minister at the head in the case of the Union and the  Chief
    Minister  at  the head in the case of State in	all  matters
    which  vests  in the executive whether those  functions	 are
    executive   or	legislative  in	 character.    Neither	 the
    President  nor	the Governor is to  exercise  the  executive
    functions  personally.	 The  present  appeals	concern	 the
    appointment  of	 persons other than District Judges  to	 the
    Judicial  Service  of the State which is to be made  by	 the
    Governor as contemplated in Article 234 of the	constitution
    after consultation with the State Public Service  Commission
    and the High Court.  Appointment or dismissal or removal  of
    persons	 belonging to the Judicial Service of the  State  is
    not a personal function but is an executive function of	 the
    Governor  exercised  in accordance with the  rules  in	that
    behalf under the Constitution. [836B-D]
    HELD FURTHER : No abstract proposition can be laid down that
    where  the  services of probationer are	 terminated  without
    saying anything more in the order of termination that it can
    never amount to a punishment in the facts and  circumstances
    of  the case.  If a probationer is discharged on the  ground
    of misconduct or inefficiency or for similar reason  without
    a  proper  enquiry  and without	 his  getting  a  reasonable
    opportunity of showing cause against his discharge it may in
    a  given  case	amount to removal from	service	 within	 the
    meaning of Article 311(2) of the Constitution. [837 F]
    HELD  FURTHER  :  In the absence of any	 rules	governing  a
    probationer the authority may come to the conclusion that on
    account	 of inadequacy for the job or for any  temperamental
    or  other  object  not involving moral	turpitude  the	pro-
    bationer  is  unsuitable  for  the job	and  hence  must  be
    discharged,  the same does not involve any punishment.	 The
    authority may in some cases be of the view that the  conduct
    of  the	 petitioner may result in dismissal  or	 removal  on
    enquiry	 but  in those cases the authority may not  hold  an
    enquiry and may simply discharge the petitioner With a	view
    to  giving him a chance to make good in other walks of	life
    without	 a  stigma.  The fact of holding an enquiry  is	 not
    always conclusive.  What is decisive is whether the order is
    really by way of punishment.  It the facts and circumstances
    of the case indicate that the substance of the order is that
    the termination is by way of punishment then the  petitioner
    is entitled to attract Article 311.  Where the	departmental
    enquiry	 is contemplated and if any enquiry is not  in	fact
    proceeded with, Article 311 will not be- attracted unless it
    can  be shown that the order though unexceptionable in	form
    is  made following a report based on misconduct.  [837	G-A;
    838 C; F&G]
    HELD  FURTHER  :  Rule7(1)  of	the  Punjab  Civil   Service
    (Judicial Branch) Rules 1951 provides that every Subordinate
    Judge in the first instance would be appointed on  probation
    for 2 years but the said period might be extended from	time
    to  time expressly or impliedly so that the total period  of
    probation  including  extension	 if any does  not  exceed  3
    years.	 The  explanation  to rule 7(1)	 provides  that	 the
    probation  shall  be  deemed  to have  been  extended  if  a
    Subordinate,  Judge, is not confirmed on the expiry  of	 his
    probation.  Any confirmation by implication is negatived  in
    the  present case because before the completion of  3  years
    the High Court found Prima facie that the conduct as well as
    the  work of the appellant was unsatisfactory and  a  notice
    was  given  to	the appellant to show cause as	to  why	 his
    services should not be terminated.  Explanation to rule 7(1)
    shows  that the period of probation shall be deemed to	have
    been  extended	impliedly  if a	 subordinate  Judge  is	 not
    confirmed  on the expiry of probation.	Therefore,  no	con-
    firmation  by  implication can arise in	 the  present  case.
    [839B; E-G]
    816
    HELD FURTHER : The High Court for the reasons which are	 not
    stated	decided to depute the Director of Vigilance to	hold
    an enquiry.  It is indeed strange that the High Court  which
    had control over the judiciary asked the Government to	hold
    an enquiry through the Vigilance Department.  The members of
    the subordinate judiciary are not only, under the control of
    the  High Court but are also under the care and	 custody  of
    the High Court.	 The High Court failed to discharge the duty
    of preserving its control.  The request by the High Court to
    hold an enquiry through the Director of Vigilance was an act
    of  self abnegations.  The High Court should have  conducted
    the enquiry preferably through District Judges.	 The members
    of the Subordinate judiciary look up to High Court not	only
    for  discipline but also for dignity.  The  enquiry  officer
    nominated   by	the  Director  of  Vigilance  recorded	 the
    statements  of witnesses behind the back of  the  appellant.
    The  enquiry  was to ascertain the truth of  allegations  of
    misconduct.  Neither the report nor the statements  recorded
    by  the Enquiry Officer reached the appellant.	The  Enquiry
    Officer gave his findings on allegations of misconduct.	 The
    High Court accepted the report of Enquiry Officer and  wrote
    to  the	 Government  that in the light of  the	report,	 the
    appellant  was	not  a suitable person	to  be	retained  in
    service. [841C-F]
    The  order  of termination of the services of  Ishwar  Chand
    Agarwal	 is  clearly by way of punishment in the  facts	 and
    circumstances  of the case.  The High Court not only  denied
    Ishwar	Chand  merely the protection under Article  311	 but
    also   denied	itself	the  dignified	control	  over	 the
    subordinate  judiciary.	  The  form  of	 the  order  is	 not
    decisive  as to, whether the order is by way of	 punishment.
    Even an innocuously worded order terminating the service may
    in the facts and circumstances of the case establish that an
    enquiry	 into allegations of serious and grave character  of
    misconduct  involving stigma has been made in infraction  of
    the  provisions	 of  Article  311.   In	 such  a  case	 the
    simplicity  of	the  form of the order	will  not  give	 any
    sanctity.   The order of termination is illegal and must  be
    set aside. [841 G-H]
    In  case of Shamsher Singh the orders of termination of	 the
    services  are  set  aside.   The  appellant  Shamsher  Singh
    succeeds by setting aside the order of termination. in	view
    of the fact that Shgamsher Singh is already employed in	 the
    Ministry  of  Law,  no relief  accepting  salary  and  other
    monetary  benefits  which accrued to him upto  the  time  he
    obtained employment in the Ministry of Law is given.
    (Per Krishna lyer J. for himself and Bhagwati J. concurring)
    (i)  The  argument about the oath of office of President  to
    defend	the Constitution is sometimes put forward  by  inti-
    ministerialist	 advocates.   The  President   defends	 the
    Constitution not by denying its spiritual essence of Cabinet
    responsibility-indeed	he  subverts  it  that	way-but	  by
    accepting   as	 his  Constitutional   function	  what	 his
    responsible'  ministers	 have  decided.	  Can  a  Judge,  in
    fulfillment  of the oath of his office, ignore	all  binding
    precedents  and decide according to the ad hoc	dictates  of
    his uninformed conscience ?  Tribhovandas's case answers the
    point  in the negative.	 If every functionary who takes	 the
    oath  by  the Constitution interprets it  according  to	 his
    lights,	 this solemn document would be the source  of  chaos
    and  collusion and the first casualty would be the  rule  of
    law.  Such mischief cannot merit juristic acceptance. [856H;
    85-A-B]
    It  is clear from article 74(1) that it is the	function  of
    the  Council of Ministers to advise the President  over	 the
    whole  of  the	Central	 field.	  Nothing  is  left  to	 his
    discretion or excepted from that field by this article.	  By
    way  of contract see Article 163 which is the  corresponding
    provision for Governors and which expressly excepts  certain
    matters	  in  which  the  Governor  is,	 by  or	 under	 the
    constitution,  required to act in his discretion.  There  is
    no such exception in the case of the President. [858FG]
    However,  Article  75(3)  makes	 the  Council  of  Ministers
    responsible to the House of the People.	 If, therefore,	 the
    President  acted  contrary to advice,  the  ministers  would
    either	resign or, since the advice tendered  reflected	 the
    view of the House of the People, they would be thrown out of
    office by the House of the People.  For the same reason,  no
    one else
    817
    would  then  be	 able to form a	 government.  The  President
    would, therefore be compelled to dissolve the House.   Apart
    from  the  technical  difficulty of carrying  out  the	many
    details	 of  a	general election in  such  a  situation	 the
    President  might have to dismiss the Ministry and install  a
    caretaker'  government to co-operate with him in ordering  a
    general election--the consequences of the election might  be
    most  serious.	if  the electorate should  return  the	same
    government  to	power,	the President might  be	 accused  of
    having sided with Opposition and thrown the country into the
    turmoil and expense of a general--election in a vain attempt
    to get rid of a Ministry that had the support of  Parliament
    and  the people.  This would gravely impair the position  of
    the President. [858G-H; 859A-B]
    If  we hold that in a conflict between the Ministry and	 the
    President,  the	 President's  Voice should  prevail  in	 the
    last resort, either generally or even in a particular  class
    of cases, this would mean the elimination to that extent  of
    the authority of a Ministry which is continuously subject to
    control or criticism by the house of the People in favour of
    the  authority	of a President who is not  so  subject.	  It
    would	thus  result  in  a  reduction	of  the	 sphere	  of
    responsible  government. So important a subtraction must  be
    justified  by some express provisions in  out  constitution.
    [859C-D]
     If the President, in a particular case, where his own views
    differ	front  those of his  Ministers,	 ultimately  accepts
    their  advice  in defence to a well  understood	 convention,
    then  even  if	the act should result in a  breach  of	some
    fundamental right, or directive principle' enunciated in the
    constitution,  the  responsibility  will  be  that  of	 the
    ministers and not of the President. [859D-E]
    The  President under the Indian Constitution is not  a	mere
    figure head.  Like,, the King in England he will still	have
    the right to be consulted, to encourage and to wam Acting on
    ministerial  advice  does  not	necessarily  mean  immediate
    acceptance of the Ministry's first thoughts.  The  President
    can  state  all his objections to any  purposed.  course  of
    action	and ask his Ministers in Council, if  necessary,  to
    reconsider the matter. it is only in the last resort that he
    must accept their final advice. [859F-G]
    The President in India is not at all a glorified cipher.  Ho
    represents the majesty of the State, is at the apex,  though
    only  symbolically,  and ha,, rapport with  the	 people	 and
    parties	 being above politics.	His vigilant presence  makes
    for good government if only he uses, what Bagehot  described
    as the	  right	 to  be consulted, to warn  and	 encourage.'
    Indeed, Article 78 wisely     sad,  keeps the  President  in
    close  touch with the Prime Minister on matters of  national
    importance  and policy significance, and there is  no  doubt
    that the imprint of his personality may chasten and  correct
    the  political government, although the actual	exercise  of
    the  functions entrusted to him. by law is in effect and  in
    law carried on by his duly appointed mentors, i.e. the Prime
    Minister and his colleagues.  In short, the President,	like
    the' King, has not merely been constitutionally romanticized
    but  actually  vested  with a  persuasive  role.   Political
    theorists are quite conversant with the dynamic role of	 the
    Crown  which  keeps  away from politics and  power  and	 yet
    influences  both.   While he plays such a role he is  not  a
    rival  centre of power in any sense and must abide,  by	 and
    act  on	 the advice tendered by his Ministers  except  in  a
    narrow	territory which is sometimes slippery.	 Of  course,
    there is some qualitative difference between the position of
    the  President and the Governor.  The former, under Art.  74
    hag  no discretionary powers; the latter too has none.	save
    in the tiny strips covered by Arts. 163 (2), 371A(1)(b)	 and
    (d),  371A(2)(b)  and  (f); VI Schedule para  9(2)  (and  VI
    Schedule para 18(3), until omitted recently with effect from
    21-1-1972).   These  discretionary powers exist	 only  where
    expressly spelt out and even these are not left to the sweet
    will of the Governor but are remote-controlled by the  Union
    Ministry  which	 is  answerable	 to  Parliament	 for   those
    actions.   Again, a minimal area centering round reports  to
    be  dispatched	under  Art. 356 may not, in  the  nature  of
    things, be amenable to ministerial advice. [867F-H; 868A-C]
    L192SupCI/75
    818
    If only we expand the ratio of Sardarilal and Jayantilal  to
    every  A  function  which the Article  of  the	Constitution
    confer	on  the	 President on  the  Governor,  Parliamentary
    democracy  will	 become	 a dope	 and  national	elections  a
    numerical  exercise  in	 expensive  futility.  we  will	  be
    compelled  to hold that there are two  parallel	 authorities
    exercising  powers of governance of the country, as  in	 the
    dyarchy	 days,	except	that  Whitehall	 is  substituted  by
    Rashtrapati  Bhavan  and  Rai  Bhawan.	 The  cabinet	will
    shrinkat   Union   and	State  levels	in   political	 and
    administrative	authority and, having solemn regard  to	 the
    gamut of his powers and responsibilities, the Head of  State
    will  be reincarnation of Her Majesty's Secretary  of  State
    for  India,  untroubled	 by even the  British  Parliament  a
    little taller in power than the American President.  Such  a
    distortion,  by	 interpretation,  it appears  to  us,  would
    virtually amount to a subversion of the structure, substance
    and vitality of our Republic, particularly when we  remember
    that  Governors	 are  but appointed  functionaries  and	 the
    President  himself is elected on a limited  indirect  basis.
    [869G-H; 870A-B]
    HELD FURTHER:
    The  President	means,	for  all  practical  Purposes,	 the
    Minister or the Council of Ministers as the case may be, and
    his  opinion, satisfaction of decision	is  constitutionally
    secured	  en   his  Ministers  arrive	at   such   opinion,
    satisfaction   or   decision.	The  independence   of	 the
    judiciary, which is a cardinal principle of the Constitution
    and has been relied on to justify the deviation, is  guarded
    by  the relevant Article making consultation with the  Chief
    Justice	 of  India  obligatory.	 In  all  conceivable  cases
    consultation  with that highest dignitary of Indian  justice
    will  and should be accepted by the Government of India	 and
    the  Court will have an opportunity to examine if any  other
    extraneous  circumstances have entered into the	 verdict  of
    the  Minister, if he departs from the counsel given  by	 the
    Chief Justice of India.	 In practice the last word in such a
    sensitive subject must belong to the Chief Justice of India,
    the  rejection	of his advice being ordinarily	regarded  as
    prompted by oblique considerations vitiating the order.	  In
    this  view  it is immaterial whether the  President  or	 the
    Prime Minister or the Minister for Justice formally  decided
    the issue. [873A-C]
    HELD FURTHER:
    Nor  is	 Sardarilal  of such antiquity	and  moment  that  a
    reversal  would upset the sanctity of stare  decisis.	Some
    rulings, even of the highest Court. when running against the
    current	 of  case  and the clear  stream  of  Constitutional
    thought, may have to fall into the same class as  restricted
    railroad ticket, good for the day and train only,' to  adopt
    the  language  of Justice Roberts (Smith v.  Alleright,	 321
    U.S. 649, 665). [875E-F]
    In short the law of this branch of our constitution is	that
    the President and Governor, Custodians of all executive	 and
    other  powers  under various Articles shall,  by  virtue  of
    these  provisions,  exercise  their  formal   constitutional
    powers only upon and in accordance with the advice of  their
    Ministers  save in a few well-known exceptional	 situations.
    Without	 being	dogmatic  of  exhaustive,  these  situations
    relate to (a) the choice of Prime Minister (Chief Minister),
    restricted   though   this  choice  is	by   the   paramount
    consideration  that  he	 should command a  majority  in	 the
    House; (b) the dismissal of a Government which has lost	 its
    majority  in the House but refuses to quit office;  (c)	 the
    dissolution of the House where an appeal to the country.  is
    necessarily, although in this area the Head of State  should
    avoid  getting involved in politics and must be	 advised  by
    his Prime Minister (Chief Minister) who will eventually take
    the  responsibility  for  the step.  We do  not	 examine  in
    detail the constitutional proprieties in these	predicaments
    except	to utter the caution that even here the action	must
    be compelled by the peril to democracy and the appeal to the
    House  or to the country must become  blatantly	 obligatory.
    [875F-H]
    (ii) So far as the appeals are concerned, the effect is that
    there  is no infirmity in the impugned orders on  the  score
    that  the  Governor has not himself perused  the  papers  or
    passed the orders. [876C-D]
    819
    The orders of terminations are liable to be quashed and	 set
    aside  on the facts set out in the judgment of	the  learned
    Chief Justice.
    Arguments on behalf of the appellant :
    Article 234 of the Constitution confers on the Governor	 the
    power  first  to frame rules in consultation with  the	High
    Court  and the Public Service Commission and  then  requires
    him  to	 appoint persons to judicial service of a  State  in
    accordance  with  the Rules so made.  The power	 to  appoint
    includes  The  power to dismiss or  terminate  according  to
    section 16 of the general Clauses Act read with Article	 367
    of the Constitution.
    The power of the Governor under Article 234 as regulated  by
    the  rules framed thereunder is not the executive  power  of
    the  State  as	contemplated under  Article  154  and  under
    Article	 162  of  the Constitution and	is,  therefore,	 not
    exercisable under Article 154 through subordinate  officers,
    which,	includes  Ministers but must, on the  language,	 the
    purpose and the setting of the Article, be exercised by	 the
    Governor  as  a power exercisable by himself.  Even  Rule  7
    framed	in consultation with the High Court and	 the  Public
    Service	 Commission  of the Punjab Civil  Service  (Judicial
    Branch	Rules)	confers	 the power  of	termination  on	 the
    Governor  alone	 and being bound by those  rules  he  cannot
    leave exercise thereof to a subordinate officer.  Since	 the
    impugned order of termination dated 15th December, 1969	 was
    passed admittedly without even placing the papers before the
    Governor  the  same  is	 in  contravention  of	and  is	 not
    authorized by Article 234 and the rules framed thereunder.
    Under Article 163 of the Constitution the Governor is to act
    on  the	 aid and advice of his Council of Ministers  in	 the
    exercise  of  Ms functions except in so far as he is  by  or
    under the Constitution required to exercise his functions in
    his discretion.	 The power of termination conferred by	Rule
    7  is  a power conferred by and under the  Constitution	 and
    since Rule 7 requires the Governor in his own discretion  to
    decide	whether	 or  not  to terminate	the  services  of  a
    probationer judicial officer the function could be exercised
    by  the	 Governor  even without the aid and  advice  of	 his
    Council	 of Ministers.	Article 163(2)	further	 strengthens
    this  submission in as much as it confers on  the  Governors
    the  power even to decide whether a matter is or is not	 one
    in his discretion.
    Alternatively  and assuming that the function under  Article
    234  read  with	 Rule  7  was  not  within  the	  Governor's
    discretion  in terms of Article 163, the power conferred  by
    Article	 234  and said Rule 7 was  not	exercisable  through
    subordinates   under   Article	154  although  it   may	  be
    exercisable  by	 the Governor on the aid and advice  of	 his
    Council	 of Ministers since the power is not  the  executive
    power of the State, but a law making cum executive power  of
    the Governor himself.
    Under  Article 235 of the Constitution it is the High  Court
    alone which is vested with the control over the	 subordinate
    judiciary  in  all  matters  including	the  initiating	 and
    holding	 of enquiries against judicial officers.  Since	 the
    dismissal  or  termination of the  appellant's	services  is
    based	on   the   Superintendent   of	 Police,   Vigilance
    Department's  findings	of guilt the order is in  breach  of
    Article 235 of the Constitution.
    The  appellant having completed his maximum period of  three
    years probation. a legal right to be confirmed in favour  of
    the  appellant.	 Thereafter he ceased to be  a	probationer.
    Since the appellant had acquired a right to be confirmed his
    services  could not have been terminated without  compliance
    with the provisions of Article. 311 of the Constitution.
    The impugned order of termination though innocuous in  form,
    is  really  an	order  by way  of  punishment  removing	 the
    appellant  from	 service on the basis of  charges  of  gross
    misconduct   found  established	 by  an	  ex-parte   enquiry
    conducted  by  the S.P. Vigilance Department with  the	only
    object of ascertaining the truth, of the alleged  misconduct
    and for the purpose of dismissing or removing the petitioner
    if the charges were found established.	It was ultimately on
    the  basis of specific findings recorded by  S.P.  Vigilance
    that the appellant's services were terminated.	The  enquiry
    was clearly in breach of Article 311 of the Constitution  as
    also in breach of rules of Natural justice.  The enquiry  by
    SP.   Vigilance was essentially and in character and  object
    different from the infor-
    820
    mal  enquiry into the suitability of the appellant  held  by
    the two District Judges (Ferozpur and Bhatinda) towards the,
    end of the maximum period of probation.
    The report of the Vigilance Department which formed the very
    basis of the termination is therefore, based on an  entirely
    uncommunicated material.
    Even  the  adverse  reports referred to	 by  the  Respondent
    Government  were  not made the subject matter  of  the	show
    cause notice proposing termination so that in terms of	Rule
    9  the	petitioner never had the opportunity to	 show  cause
    against	 them.	Although the said reports related to a	pre-
    show  cause  notice, period they were not made	the  subject
    matter of the show cause notice )so that the impugned  order
    of termination, which, is admittedly based on these  adverse
    reports also is in breach of Rule 9.
    The  appellant's  service have thus been terminated  on	 the
    basis  of  grounds  entirely extraneous to  the	 show  cause
    notice and since the appellant was not applied of these	 new
    grounds and allegations and was not given an opportunity  to
    submit an explanation with regard to the same, the order  of
    termination dated 15th December, 1969 has clearly been	made
    in breach of mandatory provisions of rule 9 and is liable to
    be quashed.
    Arguments on behalf of the Respondent
    It is a fundamental principle of English Constitutional	 law
    that  there  must be no conflict between the  King  and	 his
    people,	 and consequently no conflict between the  King	 and
    the,  House  of Commons which represents the people.  It  is
    this principle which is responsible for three settled  rules
    of  English Constitutional Law : (i) That for  every  public
    act  of the King, his Ministers must accept  responsibility,
    (ii)  That  the	 Sovereign must never act on  his  own	res-
    ponsibility  that is, he must always have advisers who	will
    bear responsibility for his acts; and (iii) The Power of the
    Sovereign  to  differ  from  or	 dismiss  his  Ministers  is
    conditioned  by the practical rule that the Crown must	find
    advisers  to  bear responsibility for his action  and  those
    advisers  must have the confidence of the house of  Commons.
    This  rule of English Constitutional Law is incorporated  in
    the  Constitution of India.  See Articles 74(1),  75(3)	 and
    361(1)	and  second  proviso  which  clearly  point  to	 the
    conclusion   that  the	Indian	Constitution   envisages   a
    Parliamentary or "responsible" form of Government and not  a
    Presidential  form  of	Government.   The  powers  of	the,
    Governor as constitutional head are no different-See Article
    163(1), 164(2) and 361(1) and second proviso.
    The  Supreme Court of India has consistently taken the	view
    that  the  powers  of the President and the  powers  of	 the
    Governor  under	 the  Indian Constitution are  akin  to	 the
    powers of the Crown under the British Parliamentary  system.
    See Ramajawari Kapur v. State of Punjab [1955] 2 SCR at 236-
    237  (Mukherjea, CJ.), A. Sanjeevi Naidu v. State of  Madras
    [1970]	3  SCR 505 at 511 (Hegde J.); U. N.  Rao  v.  Indira
    Gandhi	[1971] Supp.  SCR p. 46 (Sikri, C.J.). In  the	last
    case  this Court held that Article 74(1) was  mandatory	 and
    therefore  the	President could not exercise  the  executive
    power  without the aid and advice of Council  of  Ministers;
    but  the principle of the decision is not restricted to	 the
    exercise  of  executive power alone.  A	 similar  view	with
    regard to the powers of the President and the Governor under
    our  Constitution  is expressed by  Constitutional  lawyers.
    (See,  for  instance, Jennings Constitutional  Laws  of	 the
    Commonwealth 1952 p. 365 where the author characterizes	 the
    description  of	 the  Indian  Constitution  as	a  Sovereign
    Democratic Republic as "wholly accurate" but that "it  might
    also  be  described as a constitutional monarchy  without  a
    monarch".
    The  Governor  is  at  the apex of  the	 Executive  and	 the
    executive  power  of  the State is vested  in  the  Governor
    [Article 154(1)].  The Governor is also at the annex of	 the
    State Legislature (Article 169).
    In both these capacities the Governor has several  functions
    to perform.  The word functions' includes powers and duties-
    The  nature of these functions and the capacity in which  he
    examines them is set out in the Explanatory Note appended to
    this written argument.
    The power to terminate the engagement of a member of a State
    Public Service Commission such as a Sub-Judge is part of the
    executive power of
    821
    the State. (Art. 162 read will Entry 41 of List 11).  It can
    be  allocated  to a Minister under Art. 166(3).	 It  can  be
    exercised by subordinate officials if this is in  accordance
    with the rules of allocation.
    In any case the executive power of the State extends to, but
    is  not limited to, matters in respect of which	 legislature
    has  power  to make laws.  Neither the appointment  nor	 the
    termination  of	 the services of a District  Judge  (Article
    233)  nor  the appointment or termination of  service  of  a
    member of the Subordinate Judicial Service (Article 234)  is
    a  matter with respect to which the Governor is required  to
    act  in	 his  discretion.  The argument (on  behalf  of	 the
    Interveners)  that  the "Governor" in Articles 233  and	 234
    mean  the  Governor personally and not	acting	through	 any
    other  agency is contrary to the plain language of  articles
    154(1), 162(1) and 166.	 It is also contrary to the  concept
    "responsible" Government.  That the actions of "responsible"
    Ministers should be scrutinized by a nominated Governor, who
    is  responsible	 to  no	 one,  is  a  strange  argument	 the
    confidence in the personal opinion of a nominated individual
    may  or may not be justified; but it is not warranted  in  a
    Parliamentary system of democracy.  There is nothing in	 the
    form  of the oath taken by the Governor to militate  against
    the  State's  submissions.  If the Governor is true  to	 his
    oath  he  cannot  ignore  or refuse  to	 follow	 a  ride  of
    constitutional	Law-which is that he must act as  a  consti-
    tutional  head	of  a State having a  Council  of  Ministers
    responsible  to	 the  State Legislature.   In  fact  such  a
    contention   runs   counter  to	 the   theory	of   Cabinet
    responsibility on which our Constitution is based.
    The  argument  founded on article 167 does not	advance	 the
    case  of  the  petitioners.  The Governor has  no  right  to
    refuse	to  act on the advice of the Council  of  Ministers.
    Such   a  position  is	antithetical  to  the	concept	  of
    "responsible' Government.  Article 167 was inserted for	 the
    limited	 purpose  of enabling him to obtain  information  so
    that  he could discharge the constitutional functions  of  a
    Governor.  It was not intended to give the Governor power to
    interfere  in the administration and as such a	result	does
    not flow from the language used in article 167.
    A person appointed to a permanent post in Government service
    on probation has no right to continue to hold that post	 any
    more  than  a  servant employed on probation  by  a  private
    employer is entitled to do.  Termination' of the services of
    the  probationer  during  or at the end	 of  the  period  or
    probation will not ordinarily and by itself be a  punishment
    attracting the provisions of article 311.  If termination of
    service of a probationer is founded on a right flowing	from
    the  contract or the service rules, then prima facie  it  is
    not a punishment and article 311 is not attracted.  The test
    is  :  Is termination sought to be brought  about  otherwise
    than  by  way of punishment ? If yes, article 311  will	 not
    apply.	This is ordinarily to be ascertained by reference to
    the order terminating the service.
    Though termination of the service of a probationer during or
    at  the end of the period of probation will  not  ordinarily
    and  by itself be a punishment-the  circumstances  attending
    the  termination would be relevant to determine	 whether  or
    not the termination was by way of punishment.  An  important
    circumstance would be the fact that disciplinary action	 was
    contemplated  and  taken.  The form of the order is  not  by
    itself conclusive.
    An  order of termination of service in unexceptionable	form
    preceded  by an inquiry launched by the superior  authority-
    whether under specific rules or otherwise for the purpose of
    ascertaining  whether the public servant should be  retained
    in service does not attract the operation of article 311.
    Even where a departmental inquiry is initiated and a  charge
    sheet	submitted  followed  by	 an  explanation  from	 the
    probationer  the  provisions  of article 311  would  not  be
    attracted  if the inquiry was not proceeded with  and  there
    was a termination of service simpliciter.
    But where the inquiry is held under rules giving the  public
    servant on probation an opportunity of showing cause why the
    probationer's appointment should not be terminated and	such
    a  show cause notice is given and an inquiry held under	 the
    relevant rule. the order of discharge of the probationer  if
    unexceptionable in form, will not amount to "dismissal".
    In  the.  present case Rule 9 was invoked and  was  applied.
    The    confidential   reports	themselves    disclose	  an
    unsatisfactory record implying unsuitability for
    822
    further	 service.  This itself is sufficient to dispose	 of.
    the  petitioner's contentions on merits.   The	confidential
    reports	 were  available with the Government  as  they	were
    forwarded  by  the  High  Court.   The	explanation  of	 the
    petitioner  was considered by the High Court both  prior  to
    the issue of a show cause notice by the Chief Secretary	 and
    after, and the explanation of the petitioners was also	con-
    sidered	 by the High Court.  The record does not  show	that
    the view of the High Court was in any way perverse.  On	 the
    contrary,  it is clearly warranted by the facts	 on  record.
    The  contention that the show cause notice should have	been
    under  the specific directions of the Chief Minister is	 not
    warranted  either by the Allocation Rules of 1966 nor is  it
    justified  on  a true construction of Rule 9 of	 the  Punjab
    Civil Service (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1952.
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeals Nos. 2289 of 1970 and 632 of
1971.

From the Judgment and Order dated 28-4-70 of the appeal by Special Leave from
the Judgment and order dated 8-10-70 of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in
Civil Regular First Appeal No. 446/69 and L.P.A. No. 656 of 1970 respectively.
Appellant appeared in person (In CA No. 2289170). G. L. Sanghi, S. P.
Agarwala, A. T. M. Sampath, A. K. Sanghi and E. C. Agarwala, for the Appellant
(In C.A. No. 632/71).

F.S. Nariman, Addl. Sol. Gen. of India, H. R. Khanna and O. P. Sharma; for
Respondent No. 1 (In CA. No. 2289/70). V. M. Tarkunde, S. K. Mehta and O. P.
Sharma for the Respondent (In CA. 632/71).

Niren De, Att. Gen., P. P. Rao and S. P. Nayar; for the Attorney General of
India.

B. R. L. iyengar and Bishamber Lal for the Intervener (Mr. B. L. Gupta) Anand
Swarup, A. K.Sen and Harbans Singh Marwaha for Inter- vener (Punjab &
Haryana).

The Judgment of A. N. Ray, C.J., D., G. Palekar,K. K. Mathew, Y V. Chandrachud
and A. Alagiriswami, JJ. was delivered by Ray, C.J., V. H. Krishna Iyer, J.
gave a separate Opinion on behalf of P. N. Bhagwati J. and himself.

RAY C. J. These two appeals are from the judgment of the Punjab and Haryana
High Court.

The Appellants joined the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch). They were
both on probation.

By an order dated 27th April, 1967 the services of the appellant Shamsher
Singh were terminated. The order was as follows :

> "The Governor of Punjab is pleased to terminate the services of Shri
> Shamsher Singh, Subordinate Judge, on probation, under Rule 9 of the Punjab
> Civil Services (Punishment' and Appeal) Rules, 1952 with immediate effect.
> It is requested that these orders may be conveyed to the officer concerned
> under intimation to the Government."

> By an order dated 15 December, 1969 the services of the appellant Ishwar
> Chand Agarwal were terminated. The order was as follows:

> "On the recommendation of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, the Governor
> of Punjab is pleased to dispense with  823 the services of Shri Ishwar Chand
> Agarwal, P.C.S. (Judicial Branch), with immediate effect, under Rule 7(3) in
> Part D' of the Punjab Civil Services (Judicial Branch) Rules, 1951, as
> amended from time to time".

The appellants contend that the Governor as the Constitutional or the formal
head of the State can exercise powers and functions.of appointment and removal
of members of the Subordinate Judicial Service only personally. The State
contends that the Governor exercises powers of appointment and removal
conferred on him by or under the Constitution like execute powers of the State
Government only on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers and not
personally.

The appellants rely on the decision of this Court in Sardari Lal v. union of
India & Ors. (1971)3 S.C.R. 461 where it has been held that where the
President or the Governor, as the case may be, if satisfied, makes an order
under Article 311(2) proviso(c) that in the interest of the security of the
State it is not expedient to hold an enquiry for dismissal or removal or
reduction in rank of an officer, the satisfaction of the President or the
Governor is his personal satisfaction. The appellants on the authority of this
ruling contend that under Article 234 of the Constitution the appointment as
well as the termination of services of subordinate Judges is to be made by the
Governor personally.

These two appeals were placed before a larger Bench to consider whether the
decision in Sardari Lal's case (supra) correctly lays down the law that where
the President or the Governor is to be satisfied it is his personal
satisfaction. The appellants contend that the power of the Governor under
Article 234 of the Constitution is to be exercised by him personally for these
reasons.

First there are several constitutional functions, powers and duties of the
Governor. These are conferred on him eo nomine the Governor. The Governor, is,
by and under the Constitution, required to act in his discretion in several
matters. These constitutional functions and powers of the Governor eo nomine
as well as these in the discretion of the Governor are not executive powers of
the State within the meaning of Article 154 read with Article 162. Second, the
Governor under Article 163 of the Constitution. can take aid and advice of his
Council of Ministers when he is exercising executive power of the State. The
Governor can exercise powers and functions without the aid and advice of his
Council of Ministers when he is required by or under the Constitution to act
in his discretion, where he is required to exercise his Constitutional
functions conferred on him eo nomine as the Governor.

Third, the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers under Article 163 is
different from the allocation of business of the Government of the state by
the Governor to the Council of Ministers under Article 824 166(3) of the
constitution. The allocation of business of Govt. under Article, 166(3) is an
instance of exercise of executive power by the Governor through his council by
allocating or delegating his functions. The aid and advice is a constitutional
restriction on the exercise of executive powers of the State by the Governor.
The Governor will not be constitutionally competent to exercise these
executive powers of the State without the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers.

Fourth, the executive powers of the State are vested in the Governor under
Article 154(1). The powers of appointment and removal of Subordinate Judge
under Article 234 have not been allocated to the Ministers under the Rules of
Business of the State of Punjab. Rule 18 of the Rules of Business States that
except as otherwise provided by any other rule cases shall ordinarily be
disposed of by or under the authority of the Minister-in-Charge who may, by
means of Standing orders, give such directions as he thinks fit for the
disposal of cases in his department. Rule 7(2) in Part D of the Punjab civil
Rules which states that the, Governor of Punjab may on the, recommendation of
the High Court remove from service without assigning any cause any subordinate
Judge or revert him to his substantive post during the, period of probation is
incapable of allocation to a Minister. Rule 18 of the, Rules of Business is
subject to exceptions and rule 7(2) of the Service Rules is such an exception.
Therefore, the appellants contend that the power of the Governor to remove
Subordinate Judges under Article 234 read with the aforesaid Rule 7(2) of the
Service Rules cannot be allocated to a Minister.

The Attorney General for the Union, the Additional Solicitor General for the
State of Punjab and Counsel for the State of Haryana contended that the
President is the, constitutional head of the Union and the Governor is the
constitutional head of the State and the President as well as the Governor
exercises all powers and functions conferred on them by or under the
Constitution on the aid and advice of the Council of a Ministers.

In all the Articles which speak of powers and functions of the President, the
expressions used in relation thereto are is satisfied', is of opinion as he
thinks fit' and if it appears to. In the case of nor, the expressions used in
respect of his powers and functions are is satisfied', if of opinion' and as
he thinks fit'.

Article 163(1) states that there shall be a Council of Ministers with the
Chief Minister at the head to aid and advice the Governor in the exercise of
Was functions, except in so far as he is by or under this Constitution,
required to exercise his functions or any of them in his dis- cretion. Article
163(2) states that if any question arises whether any matter is or is not a
matter as respects which the Governor is by or under this Constitution
required to act in his discretion, the decision of he Governor in his
discretion shall be final and the validity of anything done by the Governor
shall not be called in question on the ground that the ought or ought not to
have acted in his discretion. Extracting the words "in his discretion" in
relation to exercise of functions, the appellants contend that the Council of
Ministers may aid and advise the 825 Governor in Executive functions but the
Governor individually and personally in his discretion will exercise the
constitutional functions of appointment and removal of officerS in State
Judicial Service and other State Services. It is noticeable that though in
Article 74 it is stated that there shall be a Council of Ministers with the
Prime Minister at the head to aid and advise the President in the exercise of
his functions, there is no provision in Article 74 comparable to Article 163
that the aid and advice is except in so far as he is required. to exercise his
functions or any of them in his discretion. It is necessary to find out as to
why the words, in his discretion' ire used in relation to some powers of the
Governor and not in the case of the President. Article 143 in the Draft
Constitution became Article 163 in the Constitution. The draft constitution in
Article 144(6) said that the functions of the Governor under Article with
respect to the appointment and dismissal of Ministers shall be exercised by
him in his discretion. Draft Article 144(6) was totally omitted when Article
144 became Article 164 in the Constitution. Again Draft Article 153(3) said
that the functions of the Governor under clauses (a) and (c) of clause (2) of
the Article shall be exercised by him in his discretion. Draft Article 153(3)
was totally omitted when it became Article 174 of our Constitution. Draft
Article 175 (proviso) said that the Governor " may in his discretion return
the Bill together with a message requesting that the House. will reconsider
the Bill". Those words that "the Governor may in his discretion" were omitted
when it became Article 200. The Governor under Article 200 may return the Bill
with a message requesting that the House will reconsider the Bill. Draft
Article 188 dealt with provisions in case of grave emer s. clauses (1) and (4)
in Draft Article 188 used to words "in his discretion in relation to exercise
of power by the Governor. Draft Article 188 was totally omitted Draft Article
285(1) and (2) dealing with composition and staff of Public Service Commission
used the expression "in his discretion" in relation to exercise of power by
the Governor in regard to appointment of the Chairman and Members and makIng
of regulation. The words "in his discretion" in relation to exercise of power
by the Governor were omitted when it became Article 316. In Paragraph 15 (3)
of the Sixth Schedule dealing with annulment or suspension of acts or
suspension of acts and resolutions of District and Regional Councils it was
said that the functions of the Governor under the Paragraph shall be exercised
by him in his discretion. Sub-paragraph 3 of Paragraph 15 of the Sixth
Schedule was omitted at the time of enactment of the Constitution.

It is, therefore, understood in the background of these illustrative draft
articles as to why Article 143 in the Draft Constitution which became Article
163 in our Constitution used the expression "in his discretion" in regard to
some powers of the Governor.

Articles where the expression "acts in his discretion" is used in relation to
the. powers and functions of the Governor are those which speak of Special
responsibilities of the Governor. These Articles are 371A(1) (b), 371A(1)

(d), 371A (2) (b) and 371A(2) (f). There 826 are two Paragraphs in the Sixth
Schedule., namely, 9(2) and 18(3) where the words "in his discretion" are used
in relation to certain powers of the Governor. Paragraph 9 (2) is in relation
to determination of amount of royalties payable by licensees or lessees
prospecting for, or extracting minerals to the District Council. Paragraph
18(3) has been omitted with effect from 21 January, 1972. The provisions
contained in Article 371A (1) (b) speak of the Special responsibility of the
Governor of Nagaland with respect to law and order in the State of Nagaland
and exercise of his individual judgment as to the action to be taken. The
proviso states that the decision of the Governor in his discretion shall be
final and it shall not be called in question.

Article 371A(1) (d) states that the Governor shall in his discretion make
rules providing for the composition of the regional council for the Tuensang
District. Article 371A(2)(b) states that for periods mentioned there the
Governor shall in his discretion arrange for an equitable allocation of
certain funds, between the Tuensang District and the rest of the State.

Article 371A(2) (f) states that the final decision on all matters relating to
the Tuensang District shall be made by the Governor in his discretion.

The executive power of the Union is vested in the President under Article
53(1). The executive power of the State is vested in the Governor under
Article 154 (1). The expression "Union" and "State," occur in Articles 53(1)
and 154(1) respectively to bring about the federal principles embodied in the
Constitution. Any action taken in the exercise of the executive power of the
Union vested in the President under Article 53(1) is taken by the Government
of India in the name of the President as will appear in Article 77(1).
Similarly, any action taken in the exercise of the executive power of the
State vested in the Governor under Article 154(1) is taken by the Government
of the State in the name of the Governor as will appear in Article 166(1).
There are two significant features in regard to the executive action taken in
the name of the President or in the name of the Governor. Neither the
President nor the Governor may sue or be sued for any executive action of the
State. First, Article 300 States that the Government of India may sue or be
sued in the name of the Union and the Governor may sue or be sued in the name
of the State. Second, Article 361 states that proceedings may be brought
against the Government of India and the Government of the State but not
against the President or the Governor. Articles 300 and 361 indicate that
neither the President nor the Governor can be sued for executive actions of
the Government. The reason is that neither the president nor the Governor
exercises the executive functions individually or personally. Executive action
taken in the name of the President is the action of the Union. Executive
action taken in the name of the Governor is the executive action of the State.

827

Our Constitution embodies generally the Parliamentart or Cabinet system of
Government of the British model both for the Union and the States. Under this
system the, President is the Constitutional or formal head of the Union and he
exercises his powers and functions conferred on him by or under the
Constitution on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers Article 103 is
an exception to the aid and advice of the Council of- Ministers because it
specifically provides that the President acts only according to the opinion of
the Election Commission. This is when any question arises as to whether a
member of either House of Parliament has become subject to any of the dis-
qualifications mentioned in clause (1) of Article 102. Under the Cabinet
system of Government as embodied in our Constitution the Governor is the
constitutional or formal head of the State and be exercises all his powers and
functions conferred on him by or under the Constitution on the aid and advice
of his Council of Ministers save in spheres where the Governor is required by
or under the Constitution to exercise his functions in his discretion. The
executive power is generally described as the residue which does not fall
within the legislative or judicial power. But executive power may also partake
of legislative or judicial actions. All powers and functions of the President
except his legislative powers as for example in Article 123 viz., ordinance
making power and all powers and functions of the Governor except his
legislative power as for example in Article 213 being ordinance making powers
are executive powers of the Union vested in the President under Article 5 3 (
1) in one case and are executive powers of the State vested in the Governor
under Article `54(1) in the other case. Clause (2) or Clause (3) of Article 77
is not limited in its operation to the executive action of the Government of
India under clause (1) of Article 77. Similarly, clause (2) or clause (3) of
Article 166 is not limited in its operation to the executive action of the
Government of the State under clause (1) of Article 166. The expression
"Business of the Government of India" in clause (3) of Article 77, and the
expression "Business of the Government of the State" in clause (3) of Article
166 includes all executive business.

In all cases in which the President or the Governor exercises his functions
conferred on him by or under the Constitution with the aid and advice of his
Council of Ministers he does so by making rule-. for convenient transaction of
the business of the Government of India or the Government of the State
respectively or by allocation among his Ministers of the saidbusiness, in
accordance with Article 77 (3) and 166(3) respectively. Wherever the
Constitution requires the satisfaction of Presidents the Governor for the
exercise of any power or function by the President or the Governor, as the
case may be, as for example in Articles' 123, 21-3, 311(2) proviso (c), 317,
352(1), 356 and 360 the satisfaction required by the Constitution is not the
Personal satisfaction of the President or of the Governor but is the
satisfaction of the President or of the Governor in the Constitutional sense
under the Cabinet system of Government. The reasons are these. It is the
satisfaction of the, Council of Ministers on whose aid and advice the
President or the Governor generally exercises all his powers and functions.
Neither Article 77(3) nor Article 166(3) provides for any delegation of power.
Both Articles 77(3) and 166(3) provide 828 that the President under Article
77(3) and the Governor under Article 166(3) shall make rules for the more
convenient transactions of the business of the Government and the allocation
of business among the ministers of the said business. The rules of business
and the allocation among the Ministers of the said business all indicate that
the decision of any Minister or officer under the rules of business make under
these two Articles viz., Article 77(3) in the case of the President and
Article 166(3) in the case of the Governor of the State is the decision of the
President or the Governor respectively.

Further the rules of business and allocation of business among the Ministers
are relatable to the provisions contained in Article 53 in the case of the
President and Article 154 in the case of the Governor, that the executive
power shall be exercised by the President or the Governor directly or through
the officers subordinate. The provisions contained in Article 74 in the case
of the President and Article 163 in the case of the Governor that there shall
be a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the President or the Governor as
the case may be, arc sources of the rules of business. These provisions are
for the discharge of the executive powers and functions of the Government in
the name of the President or the Governor. Where functions entrusted to a
Minister are performed by an official employed in the Minister's Department
there is in law no delegation because constitutionally the act or decision of
the official is that of the, Minister. Ile official is merely the machinery
for the discharge of the functions entrusted to a Minister (See Halsubry's
laws of England 4th Ed. Vol. I paragraph 748 at p. 170 and Carleton Ltd. v.
Works Commissioners (1943) 2 AU. (E.R. 560) It is a fundamental principle of
English Constitutional law that Ministers must accept responsibility for every
executive act. In England, the sovereign never acts on his own responsibility.
The power of the sovereign is conditioned by the practical rule that the Crown
must find advisers to bear responsibility for his action. Those advisers must
have the confidence of the House of Commons. This rule of English
constitutional law is incorporated in our Constitution. The Indian
Constitution envisages a parliamentary and responsible form of Government at
the Centre and in the States and not a Presidential form of Government. Tie
powers of the Governor as the Constitutional head are not different.

This Court has consistently taken the view that the powers of the President
and the powers of the Governor are similar to the powers of the Crown under
the British Parliamentary system. (See Ram Jawaya Kapur v. State of Punjab
(1952) 2 S. C. R. 225 at 236237, A. Sanjeevi Naidu v. State of Madras (1970) 3
S. C. R. 505 at 511. U. N. Pao v. Indira Gandhi (1971) Supp. S. C. R. 46. In
Ram Jawaya Kapur's case (supra) Mukherjea, C. J. speaking for the Court stated
the legal position as follows. The executive has the Primary responsibility
for the formulation of governmental policy and its transmission into law. The
condition precedent to the exercise of this responsibility is that the
executive retains the confidence of the legislative branch of the State. The
initiation of legislation, the maintenance of order, the promotion of Social
and economic welfare, the 829 direction of foreign policy, the, carrying on
the general administration of the State are ail executive functions. The
executive is to act subject to the control of the legislature. Ile executive
power of the Union is vested in the President. The President is the formal or
constitutional head of the executive. The real executive powers are vested in
the Ministers of the Cabinet. There is a Council of Ministers with the Prime
Minister as the head to aid and advise the President in the exercise of his
functions.

The functions of the Governor under rules of business of Madras Government in
regard to a scheme for nationalization of certain bus routes were considered
by this Court in Sanjeevi Naidu's case (supra). The validity of the scheme was
challenged on the ground that it was not formed by the State Government but by
the Secretary to the Government pursuant to powers conferred on him under Rule
23-A of the Madras Government Business Rules.

The Scheme was upheld for these reasons. The Governor makes rules under
Article 166(3) for the more convenient transaction of business the Government
of the State. The Governor can not only allocate the various subjects amongst
the Ministers but may go further and designate a particular official to
discharge any particular function. But that could be done on the, advice of
the Council of Ministers. The essence of Cabinet System of Government
responsible to the Legislature is that an individual Minister is responsible
for every action taken or omitted to be taken in his Ministry. In every
administration, decisions are taken by the civil servants. The Minister lays
down the policies. The Council of Ministers settle the, major policies. When a
Civil Servant takes a decision, he does not do it as a delegate of his
Minister. Ho does it on behalf of the Government. The officers are the limbs
of the Government and not its delegates. Where functions are entrusted to a
Minister and these are performed by an official employed in the Ministry's
department, there is in law no delegation because constitutionally the act or
decision of the official is that of the Minister.

In Rao's case (supra) this Court had to consider whether House of People being
dissolved by the President on 27 December, 1970, the Prime Minister ceased to
hold office thereafter. Our Constitution is modeled on the British
Parliamentary system. The executive has the primary responsibility for the
formation of Government policy. The executive is to act subject to control by
the Legislature. The President acts on the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head. The Cabinet enjoying as it does
a majority in the Legislature concentrates in itself the virtual control of
both legislative and executive functions. Article 74(1) Which states that
there shall be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to
aid and advise the President in the legislative functions is mandatory. The
contention in that case that on the President dissolving the House, there will
be no Prime Minister was not accepted because it would change the entire
content of the executive Government.

830

If there will be no Council of Ministers, the President will not have a Prime
Minister and Ministers to aid and advise in the exercise of his functions. As
there will be no Council of Ministers, nobody will be responsible to the House
of the People. Article 75 states that the Prime Minister will be appointed by
the President and the other Ministers shall be appointed on the advice of the
Prime Minister. Article 75(3) states that the Council of Ministers is
collectively responsible to the Government. This is the basis of responsible
Government. Article 75(3) by itself may not apply when the House of People, is
dissolved or prorogued. But the harmonious reading of the mandatory character
of Article 75(1) along with Articles 75(2) and 75(3) is that the President
cannot exercise executive powers without the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head. In that context, Articles 77(3)
and 78 have full operation for duties of the Prime Minister and allocation of
business among Ministers.

These decisions of this Court are based on the root authority in King Emperor
v. Sibnath Banerji & Ors. 72 I. A.

241\. Section 59(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935 referred to as the
1935 Act contained provisions similar to Article 166(3) of our Constitution.
The question arose there as to whether the satisfaction of the Governor meant
the personal satisfaction as to matters set out in the rule 26, of the Defence
of India Rules. It was held that these matters could be dealt with by him in
the normal manner in which the executive business of the Provincial Government
is carried on and in particular under Section 49 of the 1935 Act and the
provisions of the Rules of Business made under the aforesaid Section 59 of the
1935 Act. The orders of detention were held to be regular and appropriate. A
presumption of constitutionality was also to be implied under the Rules of
Business. The presumption of course could be rebutted.

The Judicial Committee observed that the executive authority in its broad
sense included both a decision as to action and the carrying out of such
decision. The Judicial Committee said that such matters, as those which fell
to be dealt with by the Governor under Rule 26 of the Defence of India Rules
would be dealt with by him in the normal manner in which the executive
business of the Provincial Government was carried on under the provisions of
the Act of 1935 and in particular under Rules of Business.

This Court in Bejoy Lakshmi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. State of west Bengal and ors.
reported in (1967) 2 S.C.R. 406 considered the validity of a notification
signed by the Assistant Secretary in the Land and Revenue Department of the
State Government. It was contended that the executive power of the State is
vested in the Governor under Article 154(1) of the Constitution, and,
therefore. the satisfaction of the Governor was contemplated under Section-, 4
and 6 of the Land Development and Planning Act under which the notification
would be made. Under the Rules of Business made by the Governor under Article
166(3), the Governor allocated to the Minister certain matters. The Minister-
in- charge issued a Standing Order specifying the matters which were required
to.be referred to him.

831

The Rules of Business in the Bejoy Lakshmi Cotton Mills case (supra) indicated
that the business of the Government was to be transacted in various
departments specified in the Schedules. Land and Land Revenue was allocated as
the business of the Department of the Minister with that portfolio. The
Minister-in-charge had power to make standing Order regarding disposal of
cases. This Court held that the decision of any Minister or officer under
Rules of Business is a decision of the President or the Governor respectively.
The Governor means, the Governor aided and advised by the Ministers. Neither
Article 77(3) nor Article 166(3) provides for any delegation of power.
Although the executive power of the State is vested in the Governor actually
it is carried on by Ministers under Rules of Business made under Article
166(3). The allocation of business of the Government is the decision, of the
President or the Governor on the aid and advice of Ministers. This Court in
Jayantilal Amritlal Shodhan v. F. N. Rana & Ors. [1964] 5 S. C. R. 294
considered the validity of a notification issued by the President under
Article 258(1) of the Constitution entrusting with the consent of the
Government of Bombay to the Commissioners of Divisions in the State of Bombay
the functions of the Central Government under the Land Acquisition Act in
relation to the acquisition of land for the purposes of the Union within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Commissioners. The notification issued by the
President was dated 24 July, 1959\. The Commissioner of Baroda Division, State
of Gujarat by notification published on 1 September, 1960, exercising
functions under the notification issued by the President notified under
Section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act that certain land belonging to the
appellant was needed for a public purpose. On 1 May, 1960 under the Bombay
Reorganization Act, 1960 two States were carved out, viz., Maharashtra and
Gujarat. The appellant contended that the notification issued by the President
under Article 258(1) was ineffective without the consent of the Government of
the, newly formed State of Gujarat.

This Court in Jayantilal Amritlal Shodhan's case (supra) held that Article 258
enables the President to do by notification what the Legislature could do by
legislation, namely, to entrust functions relating to matters to which
executive power of the Union extends to officers named in the notification.
The notification issued by the President was held to have the force of law.
This Court held that Article 258 (1) empowers. the President to entrust to the
State the functions which are vested in the Union, and which are exercisable
by the President on behalf of the Union and further went on to say that
Article 258 does not authorize the President to entrust such power as are
expressly vested in the President by the Constitution and do not fall within
the ambit of Article 258(1). This Court illustrated that observation by
stating that the power of the President to promulgate Ordinances under
Articles 268 to 279 during an emergency, to declare failure of constitutional
machinery in States under Article 356, to declare a financial emergency under
Article 360; to make rules regulating the recruitment and conditions of
service of persons appointed 832 to posts and services in connection with the
affairs of the Union under Article 309 are not powers of the Union Government
but are vested in the President by the Constitution and are incapable of being
delegated or entrusted to any other body or authority under Article 258 (1).

The ratio in Jayantilal Amritlal Shodhan's case (supra) is confined to the
powers of the President which can be conferred on States under Article 258.
The effect of Article 258 is to make a blanket provision enabling the
President to exercise the power which the Legislature could exercise by
legislation, to entrust functions to the Officers to be specified in that
behalf by the President and subject to the conditions Prescribed thereby. The
result of the notification by the President under Article 258 is that wherever
the expression appropriate Government" occurs in the Act in relation to
provisions for acquisition of land for the purposes of the Union, the words
"Appropriate Government or the Commissioner of the Division having territorial
jurisdiction over the area in which the land is situate" were deemed to be
substituted.

The distinction made by this Court between the executive functiong of the
Union and the executive functions of the President does not lead to any
conclusion that the President is not the constitutional head of Government.
Article 74(1) provides for the Council of. Ministers to aid and advise the
President in the exercise of his functions.. Article 163(1) makes similar
provision for a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the Governor.
Therefore, whether the func- tions exercised by the President are functions of
the Union or the functions of the President they have equally to be exercised
with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, and the same is true of
the functions of the Governor except those which he has to exercise in his
discretion.

In Sardari Lal's case (supra) an order was made by the President under sub-
clause (c) to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution. The order was :
"The President is satisfied that you are unfit to be retained in the public
service and ought to be dismissed from service. The President is further
satisfied under sub-clause (c) of proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the
Constitution that in the interest of the security of the State it is not
expedient to hold an inquiry". The order was challenged on the ground that the
order was signed by the Joint Secretary and was an order in the name of the
President of India and that the Joint Secretary could not exercise the
authority on behalf of the President.

This Court in Sardari Lal's case (supra) relied on two deci- sios of this
Court. One is Moti Ram Deka etc. v. General Manager N.E.F. Railway, Maligaon,
Pandu [1964] 5 SCR 683 and the other is Jayantilal Amritlal Shodhan's case
(supra) Moti Ram Deka's case (Supra) was relied on in support of the
proposition that the power to dismiss a Government servant at pleasure is
outside the scope of Article 53 and 154 of the Constitution and cannot be
delegated by the President or the Governor to a subordinate officer and can be
exercised only by the President or the Governor in the 833 manner prescribed
by the Constitution. Clause (c) of the proviso to Article 311(2) was held by
this Court ii Sardari Lal's case (supra) to mean that the functions of the
President under that provision cannot be delegated to anyone else in the case
of a civil servant of the Union and the President has to be satisfied
personally that in the interest of the security of the State it is not
expedient to hold an inquiry prescribed by Article 311(2). In support of this
view this Court relied on the observation in Jayantilal Amrit Lal Shodhan's
case (supra) that the powers of the President under Article 311(2) cannot be
delegated. This Court also stated in Sardari Lal's case (supra) that the
general consensus of the decisions is that the executive functions of the
nature entrusted by certain Articles in which the President has to be:
satisfied himself about the existence of certain facts or state of affairs
cannot be delegated by him to anyone else.

The decision in Sardari Lal's case that the President has to be satisfied
personally in exercise of executive power or function and that the functions
of the President cannot be delegated is with respect not the correct statement
of law and is against the established and uniform view of this Court as
embodied in several decisions to which reference has already been made. These
decisions are from the year 1955 upto the years 1971. The decisions are Rai
Saheb Ram jawaya Kapur v. State of Punjab [1955] 2 S.C.R. 225, A. Sanjeevi
Neidu v. State of Madras [1970] 3 S.C.R. 505 and U. N. R. Rao v. Smt. Indira
Gandhi [1971] Suppl. S.C.R. 46. These decisions neither referred to nor
considered in Sardari Lal's case (supra).

The President as well as the Governor is the Constitutional or formal head.
The President as well as the Governor exercises his powers and functions
conferred on him by or under the Constitution on the aid and advice of his
Council of Ministers, save in spheres where the Governor is required by or
under the Constitution to exercise his functions in his discretion. Wherever
the Constitution requires the satisfaction of the President or the Governor
for the exer- cise by the President or the Governor of any power or function,
the satisfaction required by the Constitution is not the personal satisfaction
of the President or Governor but the satisfaction of the President or Governor
in the Constitutional sense in the Cabinet system of Government, that is,
satisfaction of his Council of Ministers on whose aid and advice the President
or the Governor generally exercise all his powers and functions. The decision
of any Minister or officer under rules of business made under any of these two
Articles 77(3) and 166(3) is the decision of the President or the Governor
respectively. These articles did not provide for any delegation. Therefore,
the decision of Minister or officer under the rules of business is the
decision of the President or the Governor. In Moti Ram Deka's case (supra) the
question for decision was whether Rules 148(3) and 149(3) which provided for
termination of the service of a permanent Government servant by a stipulated
notice violated Article 311. The Majority opinion in Moti Ram Deka's case
(supra) was that Rules 148(3) and 149(3) were invalid inasmuch as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Article 311(2). 7---L192SupCI/75 834 The
decision in Moti Ram Deka's case supra is not an authority for the proposition
that the power to dismiss a servant at pleasure is outside the scope of
Article 154 and cannot be delegated by the Governor to a subordinate officer.

This Court in State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. v. Babu Ram Upa- dhya [1961] 2
S.C.R. 679 held that the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure, subject
to the provisions of Article 311, is not an executive power under Article 154
but a Constitutional power and is not capable of being delegated to officers
subordinate to him. The effect of the judgment in Babu Ram Upadhya's case
(supra) was that the Governor could not delegate his pleasure to any officer
nor could any law provide for the exercise of that pleasure by an officer with
the result that statutory rules governing dismissal are binding on every
officer though they were subject to the overriding pleasure of the Governor.
This would mean that the officer was bound by the Rules but the Governor was
not. In Babu Ram Upadhya's case (supra) the majority view stated seven
propositions at p. 701 of the report. Proposition No. 2 is that the power to
dismiss a public servant at pleasure is outside the scope of Article 154 and
therefore cannot be delegated by the Governor to a subordinate officer and can
be exercised by him only in the manner prescribed by the Constitution.
Propositions No. 3 and 4 are these. The tenure of a public servant is subject
to the limitations or qualifications mentioned in Article 311 of the
Constitution. The Parliament or the Legislatures of States cannot make a law
abrogating or modifying this tenure so as to impinge upon the overriding power
conferred upon the President or the Governor under Article 310 as qualified by
Article 311. Proposition No. 5 is that the Parliament or the Legislatures of
States can make a law regulating the conditions of service of such a member
which includes proceedings by way of disciplinary action, without affecting
the powers of the President or the Governor under Article 310 of the
Constitution read with Article 311. Proposition No. 6 is that the Parliament
and the Legislatures also can make a law laying down and regulating the scope
and content of the doctrine of "reasonable opportunity" embodied in Article
311, but the said law would be subject to judicial review. All these
propositions were reviewed by the majority opinion of this Court in Moti Ram
Deka's case (supra) and this Court restated that proposition No. 2 must be
read along with the subsequent propositions specified as propositions No. 3,
4, 5 and 6. The ruling in Moti Ram Deka's case (supra) is that a law can be
framed prescribing the procedure by which and the authority by whom the said
pleasure can be exercised. The pleasure of the President or the Governor to
dismiss can therefore not only be delegated but is also subject to Article
311. The true position as laid down in Moti Ram Deka's case (supra) is that
Articles 310 and 311 must no doubt be read together but once the true scope
and effect of Article 311 is determined the scope of Article 310(1) must be
limited in the sense 835 That in regard to cases falling under Article 311(2)
the pleasure mentioned in Article 310(2) must be exercised in- accordance with
the requirements of Article 311. The majority view in Babu Ram Upadhya's case
(supra) is no longer good law after the decision in Moti Ram Deka's case
(supra). The theory that only the President or the Governor is personally to
exercise pleasure of dismissing or removing a public servant is repelled by
express words in Article 311 that no person who is a member of the Civil
service or holds a civil post under the Union or a State shall be dismissed or
removed by authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed. The words
"dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was
appointed" indicate that the pleasure of the President or the Governor is
exercised by such officers on, whom the President or the Governor confers or
delegates power.

The provisions of the Constitution which expressly require the Governor to
exercise, his powers in his discretion are contained in Articles to which
reference has been made. To illustrate, Article 239(2) states that where a
Governor is appointed an Administrator of an adjoining Union Territory he
shall exercise his functions as such administrator independently of his
Council of Ministers. The other Articles which speak of the discretion of the
Governor are paragraphs 9(2) and 18(3) of the Sixth Schedule and Articles
371(1)(b), 371A(1)(d) and 371A(2)(b) and 371A(2)(f). The discretion conferred
on the Governor means that as the constitutional or formal head of the State
the power is vested in him. In this connection, reference may be, made to
Article 356 which states that the Governor can send a report to the President
that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be,
carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution. Again
Article 200 requires the Governor to reserve for consideration any Bill which
in his opinion if it became law, would so derogate from the powers of the High
Court as to endanger the position which the High Court is designed to fill
under the Constitution.

In making a report under Article 356 the Governor will be justified in
exercising his discretion even against the aid and advice of his Council of
Ministers. The reason is that the failure of the Constitutional machinery may
be because of the conduct of the Council of Ministers. This discretionary
power is given to the Governor to enable him to report to the President who,
however, must act on the advice of his Council of Ministers in all matters. In
this context Article 163(2) is explicable that the decision of the Governor in
his discretion shall be final and the validity shall not be called in
question. The action taken by the President on such a report is a different
matter. The President acts on the advice of his Council of Ministers. In all
other matters where the Governor acts in his discretion he will act in harmony
with his Council of Ministers. The Constitution does not aim at providing a
parallel administration within the State by allowing the Governor to go
against the advice of the Council of Ministers.

836

Similarly Article 200 indicates another instance where the Governor may act
irrespective of any advice from the Council of Ministers In such matters where
the Governor is to exercise his discretion has must discharge his duties to
the best of his judgment. The Governor is required to pursue such courses
which are not detrimental to the State. For the foregoing reasons we hold that
the President or the Governor acts on the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head in the case of the Union and the
Chief Minister at the head in the case of State in all matters which vests in
the executive whether those functions are executive or legislative in
character. Neither the President nor the Governor is to exercise the executive
functions personally. The present appeals concern the appointment of persons
other than District Judges to the Judicial Service of the State which is to be
made by the Governor as contemplated in Article 234 of the Constitution after
consultation with the State Public Service Commission and the High Court.
Appointment or dismissal or removal of persons belonging to the Judicial
Service of the State is not a personal function but is an executive function
of the Governor exercised in accordance with the rules in that behalf under
the Constitution.

In the present appeals the two rules which deal with termination of services
of probationers in the Punjab Civil Service (Judicia Branch) are Rule 9 of the
Punjab Civil Service (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1952 and Rule 7(3) in Part
D of the Punjab Civil. Service (Judicial Branch) Rules 1951 hereinafter
referred to as Rule 9 and Rule 7. The services of the appellant Samsher Singh
were terminated under Rule 9. The services of Ishwar Chand Agarwal were
terminated under Rule 7(3).

Rule 9 provides that where it is proposed to terminate the employment of a
probationer, whether during or at the end of the period of probation, for any
specific fault or on account of the unsatisfactory record or unfavorable
reports implying the unsuitability for the service, the probationer shall be
apprised of the grounds of such proPosal, and given an opportunity to show
cause against it, before orders ate passed by the authority competent to
terminate the appointment.

Rule 7(3) aforesaid provides that on the completion of the period of probation
of any member of the service, the Governor may, on the recommendation of the
High Court, confirm him in his appointment if he is working against a.
permanent vacancy or, if his work Dr conduct is reported by the High Court to
be unsatisfactory, dispense with his services or revert him to his former
substantive post, if any, or extend his period of probation and thereafter
pass such orders as he could have passed on the expiry of the first period of
probation.

Rule 9 of the punishment and appeal Rules contemplates an inquiry into grounds
of proposal of termination of the employment of 837 the probationer. Rule 7 on
the other hand confers power on the Governor on the recommendation of the High
Court to confirm or to suspense with the services or to revert him or to
extend his period of probation.

The position of a probationer. was considered by this Court in Purshotam Lal
Dhingra v. Union of India [1958] S C.R. 828 Das, C.J., speaking for the Court
said that where a person is appointed to a permanent post in Government
service on probation the termination of his service during or at the end of
the period of probation win not ordinarily and by itself be a punishment
because the Goverrment servant so appointed has no right to continue to hold
such a post any more than a servant employed on probation by a private
employer is entitled to do so. Such a termination does not operateas a
forfeiture of any right of a servant to hold the post, for he has no such
right. Obviously such a termination cannot be a dismissal, removal or
reduction in rank by way of punishment. There are, however, two important
observations of Das, C.J., in Dhingra's case (supra). One is that if a right
exists under a contract or service Rules to terminate the service the motive
operating on the mind of the Government is wholly irrelevant. The other is
that if the termination of service is sought to be founded on misconduct,
negligence, inefficiency or other disqualification, then it is a punishment
and violates Article 311 of the constitution. The reasoning why motive is said
to be irrelevant is that it inheres in the state of mind which is not
discernible. on the other land, if termination is founded on misconduct it is
objective and is canifest.

No abstract proposition can be laid down that where the services of a
probationer are terminated without saying anything more in the, order of
termination than that the services are terminated it can never amount to a
punishment in the facts and circumstances of the case. If a probationer is
discharged on the ground of misconduct, or inefficiency or for similar reason
without a proper enquiry and without his getting a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against his discharge it may in a given case amount to removal
from service within the meaning of Article 311(2) of the Constitution.

Before a probationer is confirmed the authority concerned is under an
obligation to consider whether the work of the probationer is satisfactory or
whether he is suitable for the post. In the absence of any Rules governing a
probationer in this respect the authority may come to the conclusion that on
account of inadequacy for the job or for any temperamental or other object not
involving moral turpitude the probationer is unsuitable for the job and hence
must be discharged. No punishment is involved, in this. The authority may in
some cases be of the view that the conduct of the probationer may result in
dismissal or removal on an inquiry. But in those cases the authority may not
hold an inquiry and may simply discharge the probationer with a view to giving
him a chance to make good in other walks of life without a stigma at the time
of termination of probation. If, on the other hand, 838 the probationer is
faced with an enquiry on charges of misconduct or inefficiency or corruption,
and if his services are terminated without following the provisions of Article
311(2) he can claim protection. In Gopi Kishore Prasad v. Union of India
A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 689 it was said that if the Government proceeded against the
probationer in the direct way without casting any aspersion on his honesty or
competence, his discharge would not have the effect of removal by way of
punishment. Instead of taking the easy course the Government chose the more
difficult one of starting proceedings against him and branding him as a
dishonest and imcompetent officer.

The fact of holding an inquiry is not always conclusive. What is decisive is
whether the order is really by way of punishment. (See State of Orissa v.
Ramnarain Das [1961] 1 S.C.R. 606). If there is an enquiry the facts and
circumstances of the case will be looked into in order to find out whether the
order is one of dismissal in substance, (See Madan Gopal v. State of Punjab
[1963] 3 S.C.R. 716). In R. C. Lacy v. State of Bihar & Ors. (Civil Appeal No.
590 of 1962 decided on 23 October, 1963) it was held that an order of
reversion passed following an enquiry into the conduct of the probationer in
the circumstances of that case was in the nature of preliminary inquiry to
enable the Government to decide whether disciplinary action should be taken. A
probationer whose terms of service provided that it could be terminated
without any notice and without any cause being assigned could not claim the
protection of Article 311 (2). (See R. C. Banerjee v. Union of India [1964] 2
S.C.R. 135.) A preliminary inquiry to satisfy that there was reason to
dispense with the services of a temporary employee has been held not to
attract Artiele 311 (See Champaklal G. Shah v. Union of India [1964] 5 S.C.R.

190). On the other hand, a statement in the order of termination that the
temporary servant is undesirable has been held to import an element of
punishment (See Jagdish Mitter v. Union of India A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 449). If the
facts and circumstances of the case indicate that the substance of the order
is that the termination is by way of punishment then a probationer is entitled
to attract Article

311\. The substance of the order and not the form would be decisive. (See K.
H. Phadnis v. State of Maharashtra [1971] Supp. S.C.R. 118).

An order terminating the services of a temporary servant or probationer under
the Rules of Employment and without anything more will not attract Article
311. Where a departmental enquiry is contemplated and if an enquiry is not in
fact proceeded with Article 311 will not be attracted unless it can be shown
that the order though unexceptionable in form is made following a report based
on misconduct. (See State of Bihar v. Shiva Bhikshik [1971] 2 S.C.R. 191). The
appellant Ishwar Chand Agarwal contended that he completed his initial period
of two years' probation on 11 November, 1967 and the maximum period of three
years' probation on 11 November, 1968 and by reason of the fact that he
continued in service after the expiry 839 of the maximum period of probation
he became confirmed. The appellant also contended that he had a right to be
confirmed and there was a permanent vacancy in the cadre of the service on 17
September, 1969 and the same should have been allotted to him.

Rule 7(1) states that every Subordinate Judge, in the first instance, be
appointed on probation for two years but this period may be extended from time
to time expressly or impliedly so that the total period of probation including
extension, if any, does not exceed three years. The explanation to Rule 7(1)
is that the period of probation shall be deemed to have been extended if a
Subordinate Judge is not confirmed on the expiry of his period of probation.
Counsel for the appellant relied on the decision of this Court in State of
Punjab v. Dharam Singh [1968] 3 S.C.R. 1 where this Court drew an inference
that an employee allowed to continue in the post on completion of the maximum
period of probation is confirmed in the post by implication. In Dharam Singh's
case (supra) the relevant rule stated that the probation in the first instance
is for one year with the proviso that the total period of probation including
ex- tension shall not exceed three years. In Dharam Singh's case (supra) he
was allowed to-continue without an order of confirmation and therefore the
only possible view in the absence of anything to the contrary in the Service
Rules was that by necessary implication he must be regarded as having been
confirmed.

Any confirmation by implication is negatived in the present case because
before the completion of three years the High Court found prima facie that the
work as well as the conduct of the appellant was unsatisfactory and a notice
was given to the appellant on 4 October, 1968 to show cause as to why his
services should not be terminated. Furthermore, Rule 9 shows that the
employment of a probationer can be proposed to be terminated whether during or
at the end of the period of probation. This indicates that where the notice is
given at the end of the probation the period of probation gets extended till
the inquiry proceedings commenced by the notice under Rule 9 come to an end.
In this background the explanation to rule 7(1) shows that the period of
probation shall be deemed to have been extended impliedly if a Subordinate
Judge is not confirmed on the expiry of this period of probation. This implied
extension where a Subordinate Judge is not confirmed on the expiry of the
period of probation is not found in Dharam Singh's case (supra). This
explanation in the present case does not mean that the implied extension of
the probationary period is only between two and three years. The explanation
on the contrary means that the provision regarding the maximum period of
probation for three years is I directly and not mandatory unlike in Dharam
Singh's case (supra) and that a probationer is not in fact confirmed till an
order of confirmation is made.

In this context reference may be made to the proviso to Rule 7(3). The proviso
to the Rule states that the completion of the maximum period of three years'
probation would not confer on him the right to 840 be confirmed till there is
a permanent vacancy in the cadre. Rule 7 (3) states that an express order of
confirmation is necessary. The proviso to Rule 7(3) is in the negative form
that the completion of the maximum period of three years would not confer a
right of confirmation till there is a permanent vacancy in the cadre. The
period of probation is therefore extended by implication until the proceedings
com- menced against a probationer like the appellant are concluded to enable
the Government to decide whether a probationer should be confirmed or his
services should be terminated. No confirmation by implication can arise in the
present case in the facts and circumstances as also by the meaning and
operation of Rules 7(1) and 7(3) as aforesaid. It is necessary at this stage
to refer to the second proviso to Rule 7(3) which came into existence on 19
November, 1970. That proviso of course does not apply to the facts of the
present case. That proviso states that if the report of the High Court
regarding the unsatisfactory work or conduct of the probationer is made to the
Governor before the expiry of the maximum period of probation, further
proceedings in the matter may be taken and orders passed by the Governor of
Punjab dispensing with his services or reverting him to his substantive post
even after the expiry of the maximum period of probation. The second proviso
makes explicit which is implicit in Rule 7(1) and Rule 7(3) that the period of
probation gets extended till the proceedings commenced by the notice come to
an end either by confirmation or discharge of the probationer. In the present
case, no confirmation by implication can arise by reason of the notice to show
cause given on 4 October, 1968, the enquiry by the Director of Vigilance to
enquire into allegations and the operation of Rule 7 of the Service Rules that
the probation shall be extended impliedly if a Subordinate Judge is not
confirmed before the expiry of the period of probation. Inasmuch as Ishwar
Chand Agarwal was not confirmed at the end of the period of probation con-
firmation by implication is nullified.

The second contention on behalf of Ishwar Chand Agarwal was that the
termination is by way of punishment. It was said to be an order removing the
appellant from service on the basis of charges of gross misconduct by ex-parte
enquiry conducted by the Vigilance Department. The enquiry was said to be in
breach of Article 311 as also in violation of rules of natural justice. The
appellant relied on Rule 9 to show that he was not only entitled to know the
grounds but also to an opportunity to represent as a condition precedent to
any such termination. The appellant put in the forefront that the termination
of his services was based on the findings of the Vigilance Department which
went into 15 allegations of misconduct contained in about 8 complaints and
these were never communicated to him.

The High Court under Article 235 is vested with the control of subordinate
judiciary. The High Court according to the appellant failed to act in terms of
the provisions of the Constitution and abdicated the control by not having an
inquiry through Judicial Officers 841 subordinate to the Control of the High
Court but asking the Government to enquire through the Vigilance Department.
It was submitted on behalf of the State that the enquiry suggested by the High
Court through the Director of Vigilance was not to satisfy itself about the
unsuitability of the appellant but to satisfy the Government that the
recommendation which had already been made by, the High Court for the
termination of the service of Ishwar Chand Agarwal should be accepted.

The High Court for reasons which are not stated requested the Government to
depute the Director of Vigilance to hold an enquiry. It is indeed strange that
the High Court which had control over the subordinate judiciary asked the
Government to hold an enquiry through the Vigilance Department. The members of
the subordinate judiciary are not only under the control of the High Court but
are also under the care and custody of the High Court. The High Court failed
to discharge the duty of preserving its control. The request by the High Court
to have the enquiry through the Director of Vigilance was an act of self
abnegations. The contention of the State that the High Court wanted the
Government to be satisfied makes matters worse The Governor will act on the
recommendation of the High Court. That is the broad basis of Article 235. The
High Court should have conducted the enquiry preferably through District
Judges. The members of the subordinate Judiciary look up to the High Court not
only for discipline but also for dignity. The High Court acted in total dis-
regard of Articles 235 by asking the Government to enquire through the
Director of Vigilance.

The enquiry officer nominated by the Director of Vigilance recorded the
statements of the witnesses behind the back of the appellant. The enquiry was
to ascertain the truth of allegations of misconduct. Neither the report nor
the statements recorded by the Enquiry Officer reached the appellant. The
Enquiry Officer gave his finding,; on alle- gations of misconduct. The High
Court accepted the report of the Enquiry Officer and wrote to the Government
on 25 June, 1969 that in the light of the report the appellant was not a
suitable person to be retained in service. The order of termination was
because of the recommendations in the report.

The order of termination of the services of Ishwar Chand Agarwal is clearly by
way of punishment in the facts and circumstances of the case. The High Court
not only denied Ishwar Chand Agarwal the, protection under Article 311 but
also denied itself the dignified control over the subordinate Judiciary. The
form of the order is not decisive as to whether the order is by way of
punishment. Even an innocuously worded order terminating the service may in
the facts and circumstances of the case establish that an enquiry into
allegations of serious and grave character of misconduct involving stigma has
been made ill infarction of the provision of Article Ill. In such a case file
simplicity of the form of the order will not give any sanctity. That is
exactly 842 what has happened in the case of Ishwar Chand Agarwal. The Order
of termination is illegal and must be set aside. The appellant Samsher Singh
was appointed on 1 May, 1964- as Subordinate Judge. He was on probation. On 22
March, 1967 the Chief Secretary issued a notice to him substantially repeating
the same charges which had been communicated by the Registrar on 15 December,
1966 and asked the appellant to show cause a to why his services should not be
terminated as he was found unsuitable for the job. The appellant gave an
answer. On 29 April, 1967 the services of the appellant were terminated.

The appellant Shamsher Singh in the context of the Rules of Business contended
that the removal of a Subordinate Judge from Service is a personal power of
the Governor and is incapable of being delegated or dealt with under the Rules
of Business. We have already held that the Governor can allocate the business
of the Government to the Ministers and such allocation is no delegation and it
is an exercise of executive power by the Governor through the Council or Offi-
cers under the Rules of Business. The contention of the appellant that the
order was passed by the Chief Minister without the formal approval of the
Governor is, therefore, untenable. The order is the order of the Governor. The
appellant was asked to show cause as to why his services should not be
terminated. There were four grounds. One was that the appellant's behavior
towards the Bar and the litigant public was highly objectionable derogatory,
non- cooperative and unbecoming of a judicial officer. The second was that the
appellant would leave his office early. The third was the complaint of Om
Prakash, Agriculture Inspector that the appellant abused his position by
proclaiming that he would get Om Prakash involved in a case if he did not
cooperate with Mangal Singh, a friend of the appellant and Block Development
Officer, Sultanpur. The fourth was the complaint of Prem Sagar that the
appellant did not give full opportunity to Prem Sagar to lead evidence. Prem
Sagar also complained that the decree-holder made an application for execution
of the decree against Prem Sagar and the appellant without obtaining office
report incorporated some additions in the original judgment and warrant of
possession.

The appellant showed cause. The appellant said that he was not provided with
an opportunity to work under the same superior officer for at least six months
so that independent opinion could be formed about his knowledge, work and
conduct. On 29 April, 1967 the appellant received a letter from the Deputy
Secretary to the Government addressed to the Registrar, Punjab and Haryana
High Court that the services of the appellant had been terminated.

It appears that a mountain has been made out of a mole hill. The allegation
against the appellant is that he helped the opponent of Prem Sagar. The case
against Prem Sagar was heard on 17 April, 1965. Judgment was pronounced the
same day. The application for execution of the decree was entertained on the
same day by the appellant.

843

In the warrant the appellant wrote with his own hands the words, "Trees, well,
crops and other rights attached to the land". This correction was made by the
appellant in order that the warrant might be in conformity with the plaint and
the decree. There is nothing wrong in correcting the warrant to make it
consistent with the decree. It appears that with regard to the complaint of
leaving office early and the complaint of Om Prakash, Agriculture Inspector
the appellant was, in fact punished and a punishment of warning was inflicted
on him.

The appellant claimed protection of Rule 9. Rule 9 makes it incumbent on the
authority that the services of a probationer can be terminated on specific
fault or on account of unsatisfactory record implying unsuitability. In the
facts and circumstances of this case it is. clear that the order of
termination of the appellant Samsher Singh was, one of punishment. The
authorities were to find out the suitability of the appellant. They however
concerned themselves with matters which were really trifle. The- appellant
rightly corrected the records in the case of Prem Sagar. The appellant did so
with his own hand. The order of termination is in infraction of Rule 9. The
order of termination is therefore set aside.

The appellant Shamsher Singh is now employed in the Ministry of law. No useful
purpose will be served by asking for reconsideration as to the suitability of
the appellant Samsher Singh for confirmation. If the authorities had at the
proper time been a little more careful and cautious perhaps the appellant
might not have left the subordinate Judicial Service and sought employment
elsewhere. For the foregoing reasons we hold that the President as well as the
Governor acts on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers in executive
action and is not required by the Constitution to act personally without the
aid and advice of the Council of Ministers or against the aid and advice of
the Council of Ministers. Where the Governor has any discretion the Governor
acts on his own judgment. The Governor exercises his discretion in harmony
with his Council of Ministers. The appointment as well as removal of the
members of the Subordinate Judicial Service is an executive action of the
Governor to be exercised on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers in
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Appointments and removals
of persons are made by the President and the Governor as the constitutional
head' of the executive on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. That
is why any action by any servant of the Union or the State in regard to
appointment dismissal is brought against the Union or the Jr State and not
against the President or the Governor. The orders of termination of the
services of the appellants are set aside. The appellant Ishwar Chand Agarwal
is declared to be a member of the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch). The
appellant Samsher Singh succeeds in so far as the order of termination is set
aside. In view of the fact that Samsher Singh is already employed in the
Ministry of Law no relief excepting salary or other monetary benefits which
accrued to him upto the time he obtained employment in the Ministry of Law is
given. The State of Punjab will pay costs to the appellants.

844

KRISHNA IYER, J-These two appeals, by a couple of small judicial officers
whose probation has been terminated by orders of concerned Ministers in
conformity With the recommendations of the High Court, have projected
constitutional issues whose profound import and broad impact, if accepted, may
shake up or re-shape the. parliamentary corner-stone of our nation. Great
deference and complete concurrence would have otherwise left us merely to say
me agree', to what has fallen from the learned Chief Justice just now, but
when basic principles are assailed with textual support, academic backing and
judicial dicta, speech, not silence, is our option.

Putting aside for the noncesome subsidiary, though salient, questions argued
before us, we may focus on a problem of great moment which has been canvassed
at length by the learned counsel for the parties. It is this problem which has
necessitated the hearing of this case by a Bench of seven Judges. The question
is : does our legal political system approximate to the Westminster-style
Cabinet Govern- ment or contemplate the President and Governor, unlike the
British Crown, being real repositories of and actually exercising power in its
comprehensive constitutional signification? Phrased metaphorically, is the
Rashtrapati Bhavan or Raj Bhavan-an Indian Buckingham Palace or a half way
house between it and the White House? This issue lays bare the basics.

This Court has a solemn duty, as a high sentinel authorized by Art. 141, to
declare what our law of the Constitution is, how our suprema lex has designed
a project of power. The major instrumentalities must work in comity and avoid
a collision course, ensuring the ultimate authority and continuous control of
We, the People of India' through the House of elected members. In essaying
this task we must keep away from ideological slants and imaginary appre-
hensions and should not import personal predilections-but inform ourselves of
the grand design of our Constitution and the great models inspiring it.

May be, our founding fathers were not political prophets who could foresee
glaring abuses or perverted developments. In a passage which is classic, Mill
told the lovers of liberty "Of what avail is the most broadly popular
representative system, if the electors do not care to choose the best member
of parliament, but choose him who will spend most money to be elected ? How
can a representative assembly work for good, if its members can be bought, or
if their excitability of temperament uncorrected by public discipline or
private self control, makes them incapable of calm deliberation, and they
resort to manual violence on the floor of the House, or shoot at one another
with rifles ?"(1) We are not unmindful of the agitational siege of
parliamentary institutions and of the anti- parliamentary build-up under way
and the rashes of frustration showing up against the unsavory politics The
President and the Governors in the Indian Constitution-by Justice M. M. Ismail
Orient Longman.

845

of power. But the limited task assigned to us is to interpret the Constitution
as it is, not to venture starry- eyed proposals for reform. Even so, our
activism in interpretation must not be bogged down by logomachy or blinkered
by legalism, but be aglow with the insightful observations of Marshall, C J. :

> " We must never forget that it is a constitution which we are expounding, a
> constitution intended to endure for ages, and consequently to be adapted to
> the various crises of human affairs. Nor did they imagine that it was to be
> so strictly interpreted that amendments and radical revisions would be
> constantly required to keep Government functioning smoothly."

Not the terminological facade of euphemisms, but the underlying reality of
government by the people, must be our lodestar, as we search for the true
semantics of terms of art used in the Great Charter.

It is surprising that extreme views have been propounded by responsible
jurists on the law of our Constitution in the strategic sector of the
President vis-a-vis his Cabinet and dangerous portents must therefore be
forestalled by an authoritative statement of the constitutional position by
the apex court. If, in that process, earlier ruling of this Court have to be
over-ruled, we may not hesitate to do so. For, it is truer to our tryst to be
ultimately right, than to be consistently wrong, where the constitutional
destiny of a developing nation is at stake. In the words of Learned Hand,the
judiciary's proper representative character as a complementary organ of the
social will' cannot be overlooked.

A skeletal projection of the facts on the forensic screen, sufficient to
follow the problems raised in these appeals, may now be made. Two fresher,,;
in the State judiciary, the appellants, were undergoing their prescribed
probation. Before the full term set by the rules had run out, the High Court
discovered unsavory conduct in these officers and, as controlling authority,
considered the need to terminate their services on grounds of unsuitability.
The ups and downs of the follow-up action vary in the two cases. In one,
during the President's rule, the Governor, instead of acting on the High
Court's advice indicated that the charges were vague and a fresh enquiry be
held.Thereupon, the High Court requested the Director of Vigilance, to make
some investigations which were actually carried out by his subordinate, the
Superintendent of Police. The Administrative Full Court, however held, on the
materials available, but without a formal or full-blooded enquiry, that on the
proved charges the officer's probation deserved to be terminated for
unsuitability. By then the Council of Ministers had come into being and, on a
consideration of the High Court's report, the Chief Minister acted on it and
ended the probation of the officer, although the Governor's personal
satisfaction about this step was neither sought nor secured. Also, by that
time, the maximum probation period of three years, under the relevant rules,
had expired and a permanent vacancy had also arisen.(This bears on another
argument about the import of the service Rules.) In the other case also, the
High Court held the officer unfit 846 to be confirmed without any elaborate
enquiry and this view was accepted by the Chief Minister without reference to
the Governor.

The orders terminating probation have been challenged on a few grounds.
Primarily, the power of appointment being with the Governor (or the President,
in the case of Central Services) the removal must be by him alone, the
argument runs. Wherever the Constitution vests a function in the Governor or
President, as such. it has to be discharged by him, applying his mind to the
materials. He can neither surrender to his ministers, nor delegate to his
officers, what the Constitution has enjoined shall-be executed by him
personally. Admittedly, in the present case, the ultimate order was made,
without reference to the Governor, by the Chief-Minister who virtually
accepted the recommendation of the High Court. The learned Attorney General
and the Additional Solicitor General, have refuted the whole basis of this
argument. We have, in the President and Governor, a replicate of a
constitutional monarch and a Cabinet answerable to Parliament, substantially
embodying the conventions of the British Constitution-not a turn-key project
imported from Britain, but an. edifice made in India with the know-how of
British Constitutionalism. If this theory be sound, Government is carried on
by the Ministers according to the rules of allocation of business and, the
Governor, no more than the Queen, need know or approve orders issued in his
name. The core of the Westminster system is that the Queen resigns, but the
Ministers rule, except in a few special, though blurred, areas, one of which
certainly is not the appointment and dismissal of civil servants. The second
major contention of Shri Sanghi, for the appellant, is that the High Court and
Government have, in substance, dismissed the probationers and, in doing so,
violated the constitutional mandate of Art. 311 and the canons of natural
justice. Even on the footing that the impugned orders are innocuous
terminations of probation, the rules which embody procedural fairness have
been flouted the consequence being invalidation. In the course of the
submissions, some criticism was leveled at the High Court requesting the
Director of Vigilance police officer-to investigate into the veracity of
charges against judicial officers. Thirdly, has the High Court the last word
regarding termination of service of judicial personnel, Government being a
formal agency to implement it? This was challenged at the bar, although we do
not finally deal with it, for the reasons to be mentioned later. Other lesser
illegalities were relied on, but they have been dealt with in the judgment of
the learned Chief justice, with which we wholly agree. We confine ourselves to
the dual principal pleas whose impact will far exceed the nullification of
orders by Ministers removing judicial probationers from service and deserve
careful study.

The first broad proposition of the appellants is that the presidentand the
Governor-are not just constitutional cousins of the British Queen, but real
wielders of power, bestowed on them expressly by the terms of the text, almost
next of kin to their American counterparts with similar designations. The
issue is so fundamental that its resolution is necessary to know not only who
can declare a probationer's fitness but who can declare a war in national
defence or proclaim 847 a breakdown of the State constitutional machinery or
assent to a bill passed by Parliament. For, if under Art. 311 the President
must be personally satisfied for certain small steps, he must surely be
individually convinced regarding the far more momentous spectrum of functions
he is called upon to discharge under a big bunch of other provisions. And this
reasoning regarding disposal of gubernatorial business or. discharge of
official responsibilities will equally apply to Governors.

A sort of constitutional mini-crisis has been sparked off by the decision in
Sardarilal's Case(1) which regarded the President's personal satisfaction for
dispensing, with an enquiry, for reasons of security of the State under clause

(c)of the proviso to Art. 311(2) of the Constitution, as necessary and non-
delegable. We will presently project, with reference to the Articles, the
rainbow of administrative, quasi-judicial and legislative tasks specifically
directed by the Constitution to be performed by the Head of the State in
contradistinction to his Council of Ministers, if the appellant's proposition
were sound, thus bringing dyarchy by a side wind, as it were, and emasculating
the plenary authority of Parliament to whom the President is not but the
Council of Ministers is responsible. The peril to the Westminster model of
government is self-evident and serious if vital business of government is to
be transacted de facto and de jury by the head of the State, and the
Ministers, who are responsible to the House consisting of the elected
representative of the people, arc to be relegated to carrying on of the
administration only, subject to the over-riding presence, pleasure and powers
of their uncrown republican King.- This dilemma of democracy, created by a
spreadout of the rationale of Sardarilal(1), can be resolved only by a study
in depth of the political perspective and philosophy and of the conspectus of
provisions, as well as an understanding of the models which influenced the
Constitution framers. What are the basic fabric, the animating spirit, and
juridical ideas of our constitutional structure and dynamics ? The law of our
Constitution, any student of Indian political history and of comparative
constitutional systems will agree, is partly eclectic but primarily an Indo-
Anglian version of the Westminster model with quasi-federal adaptations,
historical modifications, geopolitical mutations andhomespun traditions-
basically a blended brew of the British parliamentary system, and the
Government of India Act, 1935 and near-American, nomenclature-wise and in some
other respects.

Not the Potomac, but the Thames, fertilizes the flow of the Yamuna. if we may
adopt a riverine imagery. In this thesis we are fortified by precedents of
this Court, strengthened by Constituent Assembly proceedings and reinforced by
the actual working of the organs involved for about a silver jubilee' span of
time.

Historically, the Indian constitutional aspirations flowed along the British
pattern. Granville Austin refers, in his book, to the Motilal Nehru Report and
the Tej Bahadur Sapru Report and K.M. Munshi's (1) [1970] 3 S. C. R. 461.

848

Draft Constitution, in support. Several pages from the many volumes of the
Constituent Assembly debates were read at the Bar and the keynote thought in
the lengthy deliberations has been given by Granville Austin in these words :

> "in the rapidly moving world of the mid- twentieth century, a new India had
> to be built almost overnight. How was the leadership for this task to be
> provided? What type of Executive would be stable, strong, effective, and
> quick, yet withal, democratic ? The Assembly chose a slightly modified
> version of the British cabinet system. India was to have a President,
> indirectly elected for a term of five years, who would be a constitutional
> head of State in the manner of the monarch in England. As in England, there
> was to be a council of ministers, headed by the Prime Minister and
> collectively responsible to Parliament, to aid and advise the head of State.
> The President was to be nominal head of the Executive; the Prime Minister
> the real head."

Nehru, Patel, Munshi, Sir B.N. Rao,. Sir Alladi Krishnaswamy Aiyar and, above
all, Dr. Ambedkar, who was Chairman of the Drafting Committee, spoke in one
voice, with marginal variations on points immaterial to our major purpose.
What emerges from such a study is that, with minimal innovations, a
Parliamentary-style quasi-federalism was accepted, rejecting the substance of
a Presidential- style executive. This welding of statesmanship and scholarship
and willingness to borrow whatever was beneficial resulted in a constitutional
college where the Westminster symbols, backed by Indian experience, were
reverentially preserved and the pattern of ministerial responsibility was
built into the framework of federal republicanism. While the shopping list of
Constitutions was large, our founders' selectivity narrowed it down to the
Constitutions of Commonwealth countries. Also British export of Cabinet
Government had been made Swadeshi by past experience. Ill-assorted excerpts
from the speeches of the activists make for marvelous unanimity on the Cabinet
form. Prime Minister Nehru explained the position with political clarity when
moving the clause relating to the election of the President:

> 'One thing we have to decide at the very beginning is what should be the
> kind of governmental structure, whether it is one system where there is
> ministerial responsibility or whether it is the Presidential system as
> prevails in the United States of America; many members possibly at first
> sight might object to this indirect election and may prefer an election by
> adult suffrage. We have given anxious thought to this matter and we came to
> the very definite conclusion that it would not be desirable, first because
> we want to emphasize the ministerial character of the government, that power
> really resided in the Ministry and in the Legislature and not in the
> President as such. At the same time we did not want to make the President
> just a mere figurehead like the French President. We did not give  849 him
> any real power but we have made his position one of great authority and
> dignity. You will notice from this Draft Constitution that he is also to be
> Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces just as the American President is.
> Now, therefore if we had an election by adult franchise and yet did not give
> him any real powers, it might become slightly anomalous and there might be
> just extraordinary expense of time and energy and money without any adequate
> result." His opposition to a fixed tenure for Ministers stemmed from the
> same ground :

> "That raises a very fundamental issue of what form you are going to give to
> your Constitution, the ministerial parliamentary type or the American type.
> So far we have been proceeding with the building up of the Constitution in
> the Ministerial sense and...we cannot go back upon it."

> Shri K.M. Muashi expressed the historical reason for the acceptance of the
> parliamentary system.

> we must not forget a very important fact that during the last one hundred
> years Indian public life has largely drawn upon the traditions of the
> British constitutional law. Most of us, and during the last several
> generations before us, public men in India, have looked up to the British
> model as the best. For the last thirty or forty years, some kind of
> responsibility has been introduced in the governance of this country. our
> constitutional traditions have become Parliamentary and we have now all our
> Provinces functioning more or less on the British model. As a matter of
> fact, today, the Dominion Government of India is functioning as a full-
> fledged Parliamentary Government."
    
    
    	      At  another  stage,  opposing  Prof.    Shah's
    	      motion   for   adoption	of   the    American
    

> Presidency, he stressed the same note, in a comparative vein :

> " We know that the Constitution in America is not working as well as the
> British Constitution, for the simple reason that the Chief Executive in the
> country is separated from the legislature. The strongest Government and the
> most elastic Executive have been found to be in England and that is because
> the executive powers vest in the Cabinet supported by a majority in the
> Lower House which has financial powers under the Constitution. As a result,
> it is the rule of the majority in the legislature, for it supports its
> leaders in the Cabinet, which advises the Head of the State, namely, the
> King or the President. The Kind, or the President is thus placed above
> party. He is made really the symbol of the impartial dignity of the
> Constitution.

> The power of the Cabinet in England today is no whit less than the powers
> enjoyed by the President of the United States of America. By reason of the
> fact that the Prime Minister 8 L192SupCI /75  850 and the whole Cabinet are
> members of the Legislature, the conflict between the authority wielding the
> executive-power and the legislature is reduced to minimum; really there is
> none at all, because, at every moment of time, the Cabinet subsists only
> provided it carries with it the support of the majority in the Parliament."

B. N. Rau's preliminary note suggested that the President be clothed with some
discretionary powers, but the Union Constitution Committee-early in June 1947
"decided unreservedly in favour of the parliamentary type of government in
which the President would have no special powers vested personally in him but
would exercise all his functions, including the dissolution of the lower
chamber of Parliament, only on the advice of his Ministers." The deletion of
the earlier proposal for an Instrument of Instructions, has been mentioned in
this context by some writers, but the reason for dropping it was set out by
Alladi Krishnaswamy Ayyar in the Assembly thus :

> "It was provided in the Constitution... that the Council of Ministers would
> be collectively responsible to the House of the People. If a President stood
> in the way of the Council of Ministers discharging that responsibility, he
> would be guilty of violation of the Constitution and would even be liable
> for im-

> peachment. It was, therefore, merely a euphemistic way of saying that the
> President had to be guided by the advice of his Ministers. The Council of
> Ministers was collectively responsible to the House of the People,
> answerable to the House in regard to the budget, all legislation and indeed
> for every matter connected with the administration of the country. There was
> therefore no necessity for setting out in detail in an article of the
> Constitution what the functions and incidents of responsible government
> would be."

> On another occasion he reiterated "the Union Constitution Committee and this
> Assembly have all adopted what may be called the Cabinet System of
> Government. "An infant democracy cannot afford under modern conditions, to
> take the risk of perpetual cleavage, feud, or conflict, or threatened
> conflict between the Legislature and the executive."

> Dr. Ambedkar's comprehensive statement introducing the Draft Constitution on
> November 4, 1948, is scintillating. He said : "In the Draft Constitution
> there is placed at the head of the Indian Union a functionary who is called
> the President of the Union. The title of this functionary reminds one of the
> Presiden to the United States. But beyond identity of names there is nothing
> in common between the form of government prevalent in America and the form
> of government proposed under the Draft Constitution. Under the Draft
> Constitution the President occupies the same position as the King under the
> 851 English Constitution. He is the head of the State but not the executive.
> He represents the nation but does not rule the nation. He is the symbol of
> the nation. His place in the administration is that of a ceremonial device
> on a seal by which the nation's decisions are made known. Under the American
> Constitution the President has under him Secretaries in charge of different
> Departments. In like manner the President of the Indian Union will have
> under him Ministers in charge of different departments of administration.
> Here again there is a fundamental difference between the two. The President
> of the United States is not bound to accept any advice tendered to him by
> any of his Secretaries. The President of the Indian Union will be generally
> bound by the advice of his Ministers. He can do nothing contrary to their
> advice nor can he do anything without their advice. The President of the
> United States can dismiss any Secretary at any time. The President of the
> Indian Union has no power to do so so long as his Ministers command a
> majority in Parliament.

> You can have a system which can give you more stability but less
> responsibility or you can have a system which gives you more responsibility
> but less stability. The American and the Swiss systems give more stability
> but less responsibility. The British system on the other band gives you more
> responsibility but less stability. In England, where the Parliamentary
> system evails, the assessment of responsibility of the executive is both
> daily and periodic. The daily assessment is done by members of Parlia- ment,
> through questions, resolutions, no- confidence motions, adjournment motions,
> and debates on addresses. Periodic assessment is done by the electorate at
> the time of the election which may take place every five years or earlier.
> The daily assessment of responsibility which is not available under the
> American system is, it is felt, far more effective than the periodic
> assessment and far more necessary in a country like India. The Draft
> Constitution in recommending the Parliamentary system of executive has
> preferred more responsibility to more stability."

He silenced Mr. Kamath, who asked in the Assembly if refusal to accept
Ministerial advice would amount to violation of the Constitution, with the
words : "There is not the slightest doubt about it." Austin, in his well known
book, adds: "Ayyar concurred with Ambedkar that a President who did not heed
the advice of his Ministers would in fact be thwarting the will of Parliament,
for which he could be impeached."

Sardar Patel clinched the issue at a joint-session of two crucial Committees,
in these words :

> "Both these Committees(Union Constitution Committee and the Committee on- he
> Model Provincial Constitution) met  852 and they came to the conclusion that
> it would suit the conditions of this country better to adopt the
> Parliamentary system of Con- stitution, the British. type of Constitution
> with which we are familiar"

> During the general discussion on the Constitution, at the concluding
> stage,T.T. Krishnamachari said :

" It has been mentioned that one of the chief defects of this Constitution is
that we have not anywhere mentioned that the President is a constitutional
head and the future of the President's powers is, therefore, doubtful... This
is a matter which has been examined by the Drafting Committee to some extent.
The position of the President in a responsible government is not the same as
the position of the President under a representative Government like America
and that is a mistake that a number of people in the House have been making,
when they said that the President will be an autocrat, and no one appears to
realize that the President has to act on the advice of the Prime Minister. So
far as the relationship of the President with the Cabinet is concerned, I must
say that we have, so to say, completely copied the system of responsible
government that is functioning in Britain today; we have made no deviation
from it and the deviations that we have made are only such as are necessary
because our Constitution is federal in structure."

Participating in the same discussion, President Rajendra prasad said "We have
had to reconcile the position of an elected President with an elected
legislature, and in doing so, we have adopted more or less, the position of
the British monarch for the President. I.Es position is that of a
constitutional President. Then we come to the Ministers. They are, of course,
responsible to the Legislature and tender advice to the President who is bound
to act according to that advice. Although there are no specific provisions, so
far as I know, in the Constitution itself making it binding on the President
to accept the advice of his Ministers, it is hoped that the convention under
which in England the King acts always on the advice of his Ministers will be
established in this country also and the President. not so much on account of
the written word-in the Constitution, but as a result of this very healthy
convention, will become a constitutional President in all matters."

These solemn words were uttered by the President of the Constituent Assembly
at the great moment when the motion or final adoption of the Constitution was
put to the vote of the Chamber.

The most powerful dramatization of the Constitutional issue is found in a
debating episode in the Constituent Assembly when Dr. Rajendra Prasad had
pointed exchanges with Dr. Ambedkar. We may reproduce those telling pages here
:

> "Mr. President : There is another amendment which has been moved by Sardar
> Hukum Singh in which he says that the  853 President may promulgate
> ordinances after consultation with his Council of Ministers. The Honourable
> Dr. B.R. Ambedkar : I am very grateful to you for reminding me about this.
> The point is that that amendment is unnecessary because the President could
> not act and will not act except on the advice of the Ministers.

> Mt-. President : Where is the provision in the Draft Constitution which
> binds the President to act in accordance with the advice of the Ministers?

> Dr. Ambedkar : I am sure that there is a provision and the provision is that
> there shall be a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the President in the
> exercise of his functions.

> Mr. President : Since we are having this written Constitution, we must have
> that clearly put somewhere.

> Dr. Ambedkar : Though I cannot point it out just now, I am sure there is a
> provision. I think there is a provision that the President will be bound to
> accept the advice of the Ministers. In fact, he cannot act without the
> advice of his Ministers.

> Some Honourable Members : Article 61(1). Mr. president : It only lays down
> the duty of the Ministers, but it does not lay down the duty of the
> President to act in accordance with the advice given by the Ministers. It
> does not lay down that the President is bound to accept the advice. Is there
> any other provision in the Constitution? We will not be able even to impeach
> him, because he will not be acting in violation of the Constitution, if
> there is no provision.

> Dr. Ambedkar : May I draw your attention to Article 61, which deals with the
> exercise of the President's functions? lie cannot exercise any of his
> functions, unless he has got the advice, in the exercise of his functions'.
> It is not merely to aid and advise'. In the exercise of his function,' those
> are the most important words.

> Mr. president : I have my doubts if this word could bind the President. it
> only lays down that there shall be a Council of Minis- ters with the Prime
> Minister at the Head to aid and advise the President in the exercise of his
> functions. It does not say that the President will be bound to accept that
> advice. Dr. Ambedkar : If he does not accept the advice of the existing
> Ministry, he shall have to find some other body of Ministers to advise him.
> He Will never be able to act independently of the Ministers. Mr. President :
> Is there any real difficulty in providing somewhere that the President will
> be bound by the advice of the Ministers? Dr. Ambedkar : We are doing that.
> If I may say so, there is a provision in the Instrument of Instructions.

854

> Mr. President : I have considered that also. Dr. Ambedkar : Paragraph 3
> reads : In all matters within the scope of the executive power of the Union,
> the President hall, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon him, be
> guided by the advice of his Ministers, We- propose to make some amendment to
> that. Mr. President : You want to change that? As it is, it lays down that
> the President will be guided by the Ministers in the exercise of the
> executive powers of the Union and not in its legislative power.

> Dr. Ambedkar : Article 61 follows almost literally various other
> constitutions and the Presidents have always understood that that language
> means that they must accept the advice. If there is any difficulty, it will
> certainly be remedied by suitable amendment. The Ambedkar approach,
> unequivocally accepted, was "It is the Prime Minister's business, with the
> support of the Ministers, to rule the country and the President may be
> permitted now and then to aid and advise the Council of Minis- ters.
> Therefore, we should look at the substance and not at the mere phraseology
> which is the result of conventions."

If the inner voice' of the founding fathers may be any guide, it is proved
beyond reasonable doubt that the President and, a fortiori, the Governor,
enjoy nothing more and nothing less than the status. of a constitutional head
in a Cabinet-type governments few exceptions and marginal reservations apart.

We must however notice that a strong current of high-placcd scholarship has
expressed itself in the opposite direction. For instance, Mr. K.M. Munshi, the
author, has gone back on his thesis as framer. He writes in The President
under the Indian Constitution' that the President is an independent organ of
the State representing the whole Union and exercising independent powers' and
reads cur Constitution as a composite one in which the Parliamentary form of
executive and a President with power and authority are combined'. Why? To
prevent a parliamentary government from becoming parliamentary anarchy.'
Indeed, he has regarded the importation of English inventions as tantamount to
an amendment of the Constitution'. The election of President, his oath of
office, his specific powers and his obligation to prevent Cabinet
dictatorship, have been marshaled by this respected statesman. He has climaxed
his reasoning by taking the view that aid and advice' in Art. 74, do not imply
that the advice must be accepted in all cases. Shri K. Santhanam, another
cider statesman, also shares this view. Even Dr. Rajendra Prasad is reported
to have had second thoughts on the denudation of Presidential powers (p. 141,
The Constitution of India-How it has been framed-Pratap Kumar Ghosh). This
interpretative volte fsce may be due to disillusionment; for, Shri Munshi has
plainly stated :

> "During the framing of the Constitution, we all dreamt that we would make a
> success of parliamentary democracy and  855 the British Cabinet system. It
> must be confessed that this experiment has failed. If I had to make a choice
> again, I would vote for the Presidential form of Government, so that,
> whenever the politicians fail the country, there is at least one strong
> organ of the State capable of tiding over the crisis."

In the field of legal interpretation, is wish to be father to the thought?

Similarly, Mr. Justice P.B. Mukherjea and Mr. Justice Ismail have argued that
the Rashtrapati is more than the British Crown, that he reigns and rules and
is not a faint presence like a full moon at mid-day, but queen of the
Constitutional sky. We will briefly examine the arguments which have been set
forth to substantiate the thesis that while the initiative to deal with all
matters of policy will be with the Cabinet and the Prime Minister, the final
decision shall be such that the President can give his assent with honour and
self respect' [quoted from p. 98 of (1) supra]. After bewailing how when
unconcealed opportunism reigns supreme, when principles are thrown to the
winds in favour of office and power, when ideologies are given the go-by for
the temporary advantage of gaining and gathering votes on the basis of catchy
slogans, when self-interest and petty considerations prevail over national
interest and when an object of immediate gain gets ascendancy over the
permanent and paramount object of bringing into existence a healthy and
contented society assured of the basic requirements of life, there can be no
guarantee against perversion and subversion of any Constitution howsoever
perfectly it might have been drawn up', the learned jurist-judge states his
sequitur :

> "In view of all these aspects. my view is that the Constitution has not
> imposed on obligation either on the President or on the Governors to act in
> accordance with the advice of the Council of Ministers in ill matters and
> under all circumstances and they have got a certain amount of discretion in
> the matter of preserv- ing, protecting and defending the Constitution and
> devoting themselves to the service and well-being of the people of India,
> overriding the temporary advantages sought to be gained by any particular
> party in power for the time being."

> Shri P.B. Mukherjea, in his Chimanlal Setalvad Lectures, has propounded the
> thesis that- "These constitutional features and provisions are not mere
> pious wishes devoid of constitutional and legal substance, but are specific
> tenets of the Indian Constitution. Their wisdom lies in the fact that the
> President is a Constitutional and effective check on Cabinet dictatorship,
> flowing out of the overwhelming strength of a single political party without
> any effective opposition.

> * * * * * * * "It is submitted on this analysis that the Indian Executive is
> authorized by the Constitution to be strong and effective. But by wrong
> action and wrong interpretation of the constitutional provisions it has been
> reduced to a degree of ineffectiveness  856 which unless corrected is going
> to create not only Constitutional problems but extra- Constitutional
> problems which might spell disaster for the country."

Which means that the President and Governor actually govern and the Council of
Ministers live up to their name by merely tendering advice in a take it or
leave it' spirit. It is at once, difficult and dangerous to enshrine the
personality cult in a Republican Constitution and emasculate Cabinet
Government into a cabal of counselors. It is easier for one person dressed in
omnipotent authority and answerable to none to misuse power or for a
collective body, exposed to opposition frequently and diversely and obligated
to command the confidence of a Parliament of elected representatives? Is it
not straining at a gnat and swallowing the camel? Those who are critical of
popular Government being perverted by party rais-rule may argue for a change
in the Constitution if they have a case, but cannot miss the meaning of the
organic law as it is, enacted wisely or foolishly, but with eyes open, on the
basic fabric of the Westminster model. Nor can constitutional construction be
deflected from its natural role of gathering the intendment, by an elitist
touch reminiscent of imperial argument against Indian aspiration for Poorna
Swaraj. Here is an introductory passage by Shri Ismail on the subject :

> "Certainly it cannot be said that, in this connection, there is either
> similarity or identity between England and India. In India, with its vast
> illiteracy and ignorance, the traditions of the British Parliamentary
> democracy will take a long time to acquire effective acceptance or find
> useful and beneficial adoption. The history of India has been characterized
> only by benevolent monarchical traditions and not by any completely popular
> democratic institutions. The temperament and emotions of the Indian people
> have been attuned only to such insti- tutions and they will have to
> gradually acclimatize themselves to a total democratic tradition,"

This attitude may give insight into why the conclusion he has drawn has been
reached.

it is argued that the President's action is beyond the scrutiny of the Court
to know if it is based on Ministerial advice. Even so, the fact that Courts
cannot enquire into whether any and, if so, what advice has been given by his
Ministers to the Constitutional head does not mean the latter can act as he
fancies. A thing is lawfully done not because a Court can examine it but
because it is sanctioned by the law. Many are the ways, e.g. impeachment,
censure by Parliament, massive protest-in which law is recognised by social
organs. Rights are enforced not by Courts alone and remedies are not the
source of right.

The argument about the oath of office of President to defend the Constitution
is sometimes put forward by antiministerialist advocates. Yes, he defends the
Constitution not by denying its spiritual essence of Cabinet responsibility-
indeed he subverts it that way-but by 857 accepting as his Constitutional
function what his responsible' ministers have decided. Can a Judge', in
fulfillment of the oath of his office, ignore all binding precedents and
decide according to the ad hoc dictate so this uninformed conscience?
Tribhovandas'Case(1)answers the point in the negative. If every functionary
who takes the oath by the Constitution interprets it according to his lights,
this solemn document would be the source of chaos and collusion and the first
casualty would be the rule of law. Such mischief cannot merit juristic
acceptance. Seervai and other jurists take the view that our Constitution had
adopted the English system of parliamentary executive; that the President and
the Governors were constitutional heads of the executive and that real
executive power was vested in the Council of Ministers' (2). Alexandrovicz has
brought out the same point :

> "The provisions of Chapter I of Part V of the Constitution relating to the
> executive convey prima facie the impression that the President of India, the
> Head of the State, is also the real head of the Executive, and the Ministry
> is only there to aid and to advise him in the exercise of his functions.
> However, a careful reading of the Constituent Assembly debates and the
> examination of Constitutional practice in the post-independence years show
> beyond doubt that the position is exactly the reverse and that the President
> is by convention reduced to a more figurehead while the Ministry is the real
> Executive."

> * * * * * "Within the definite adoption of parliamentary Government the
> vesting clause in Article 53(1) remained to a great extent meaningless as
> real executive power was in the Ministry. The President remained therefore
> divested of such executive power by those conventions which are generally at
> the basis of parliamentary Government."

Sir B.N. Rao, who, after considerable study, established that the
parliamentary system of Government in India, with periodic elections,
parliamentary control of Ministers and a constitutional monarch at the head,
was part of our cultural heritage from the days of Manu and Kautilya, has met
the familiar arguments urged to invest powers in the President as against the
Council of Ministers. In an article published in 1957, captioned To what
extent is the President under, the Indian Constitution required, in the
discharge of his functions, to act upon the advice of his Ministers', he has
dealt with the relevant Article and the usual considerations put forward to
reject the theory of a symbolic presidency. We quote :

> It was well understood during the framing of the Indian Constitution that
> the President must act on Ministerial advice.

> (a) In justifying the provision relating to the mode of election of the
> President-indirect election by the elected members (1) [1968] S.C.R. 455,
> 465.

> (2) Constitutional Law of India-H. M. Seervai-1968 reprint Vol. II p. 774.

858

> of Parliament and of the State Assemblies all over India instead of direct
> election based on adult suffrage (now art. 54 of the Constitution)-the Prime
> Minister said : "If we had the President elected on-adult franchise and did
> not give him any real powers, it might become a little anomalous." In other
> words, the intention was to emphasize that real power was vested by the
> constitution in the Ministry and not in the President.

> (b) It will be remembered that the draft of the Indian Constitution
> originally contained a schedule of instructions to the President and an
> article one of whose clauses provided that, in the exercise of his functions
> under the constitution, he must be generally guided by these instructions.
> These instructions provided inter alia that he must act on ministerial
> advice. The relevant instruction ran : "In all matters within the scope of
> the executive power of the Union, the President shall in the exercise of the
> powers conferred upon him be guided by the advice of his ministers".
> Ultimately, the instructions as well as the clause were omitted as
> unnecessary. A number of members objected to the omission because they
> thought that it was not all at clear how far the conventions of the British
> Constitution would be binding under the Indian Constitution, But the Law
> Minister was emphatic that they would be. That the convention about acting
> on ministerial advice ought to be the same in India as in England no one
> appears to have doubted : the only doubt voiced was whether this was
> sufficiently clear in the Indian Constitution. The Constituent Assembly, on
> the. assurance of the Law Minister that the point admitted of no doubt,
> agreed to omit the schedule and the clause. (Constituent Assembly Debates,
> Volume 10, 1949, pp. 268-271).

> (1). It is clear from article 74(1) that it is the function of the Council
> of Ministers to advise the President over the whole of the Central field.
> Nothing is left to his discretion or excepted from that field by this
> article. By way of contrast, see Art. 163 which is the corresponding
> provision for Governors and which expressly excepts certain matters in which
> the Governor is, by or under the constitution, required to act it,. his
> discretion. There is no such exception in the case of the President.

> Moreover, art. 75(3) makes the Council of Ministers responsible to the House
> of the People. If, therefore, the President acted contrary to advice, the
> ministers would either resign or, since the advice tendered reflected the
> view of the House of the People, they would be thrown. out of office by the
> House of the people. For the same reasons, no one else would then be able to
> form a government. The President would, therefore, be compelled to dissolve
> the House. Apart from the technical difficulty of carrying out the man
> details. of a general election in such  859 a situation the President might
> have to dismiss the Ministry and install a caretaker' government to co-
> operate with him; bordering a general election-the consequences of the
> election might be most serious. If the electorate should return the same
> government to power, the President might be accused of having sided with the
> Opposition and thrown the country into the turmoil and expense of a general
> election in a vain attempt to get rid of a ministry that had the support of
> Parliament and the People. This would gravely impair the position of the:
> President. III. If we hold that in a conflict between the Ministry and the
> President, the President's voice should prevail in the last, resort, either
> generally or even in a particular class of cases,, this would mean the
> elimination to that extent of the authority of a Ministry which is
> continuously subject to control or criticism by the House of the People, in
> favour of the authority of a President who is not so subject. It would thus
> result in a reduction of the sphere of responsible government'. So important
> a subtraction must be justified by some express provisions in our
> constitution.

> IV. -If the President, in a particular case where his own views differ from
> those of his Ministers, ultimately accepts their advice in defence to a
> well-understood convention, then even if the act should result in a breach
> of some fundamental right' or directive principle' enunciated in the
> constitution, the responsibility will be that of the ministers and not of
> the President., The considerations mentioned above in the second group, of
> arguments seem to be decisive in favour of the proposition that, in the last
> resort, the President should accept the advice of his ministers as in
> England...,"

Does this reduce the President, under the Indian Constitution, to a,
figurehead? Far from it. Like the King in England, he will still have the
right to be consulted, to encourage an( to Warn'. Acting on ministerial advice
does not necessarily mean immediate acceptance of the Ministry's first
thoughts. The President can state all his objections to any proposed course of
action and ask his Ministers in Council, if necessary, to reconsider the
matter. It is only in the last resort that he must accept their final advice.
It has been observed that the influence of the Crown-and of the House of Lords
as well-in England' has grown with every curtailment of its legal powers by
convention. or statute. A similar result is likely to follow in India too;
for, as has been well said, "the voice of reason is more readily heard when.
it can persuade but no longer coerce", One can conceive of no better future
for the President of India than that he should be more and more like the
Monarch in England, "eschewing legal power, standing outside the clash of
parties and gaining in moral authority." These.words of constitutional wisdom
come from one who played a key role in shaping the framework of the Republic
and had no political affiliations.

860

Text book writers have taught law students and lawyers in the same strain.
indeed, a national disposition for parliamentary democracy has taken shape
among the post- Independence generation of students in school parliaments and
university replicas. Almost all political parties have, at least at State
level, been in and out of office on the basic assumption of Cabinet
Government. While these pervasive social factors are not germane to statutory
construction, they are not impertinent to an understanding by a whole people
of what they gave to themselves, Sirlvor Jennings(1) has acknowledged that the
President in the Union, or the Governor or Rajpramukh in a State, is
essentially a constitutional monarch. The machinery of government is
essentially British and the whole collection of British constitutional
conventions has apparently been incorporated as conventions.' The text, the
author notes, vests vast powers in the President but past history must provide
the modus vivendi. In an article entitled Crown and Commonwealth in Asia' he,
however, wrote :

> "Dr. Rajendra Prasad seems to have been following British conventions with
> some fidelity; but there is nothing in the Constitution which requires him
> or his successors to do so, and one of them may well say that he is not
> bound by the constitutional practices followed in a foreign monarchy and
> that he proposes to carry out the law and law alone."

We have extensively excerpted from various sources not for adopting
quotational jurisprudence' but to establish that the only correct construction
can be that in constitutional law the functions' of the President and Governor
and the business' of Government belong to the Ministers and not to the head of
State, that aid and advice' of ministers are terms of art which, in law mean,
in the Cabinet context of our constitutional scheme, that the aider acts and
the adviser decides in his own authority and not subject to the power of
President to accept or reject such action or decision, except, in the case of
Governors, to the limited extent that Art. 163 permits and his discretion,
remote controlled by the Centre, has play.

When Dr. Prasad, as President of India, hesitated to sign the ]Hindu Code Bill
in September 1951 and wrote to Prime Minister Nehru whether he could not
exercise his judgment, the latter did not mince words :

The whole conception of constitutional government is against any exercise by
the President of any such authority.

The first Attorney General of India, whom both the first President and the
first Prime Minister consulted on the question, counseled thus "I went into
the matter most carefully and I reached the conclusion that the President was
under our Constitution which had borrowed the British Parliamentary form of
Government making the cabinet collectively responsible to the Parliament (1)
Some Characteristics of the Indian Constitution, p. 2.

861

(The House of the People) a strictly constitution head. Having regard to the
meaning of the expression aid and advise' in British Constitutional law and
practice it meant that the President was bound to act in accordance with the
aid and advice tendered to him by the Council of Ministers. I referred to a
number of authorities in support of my view. I stated that once this theory
was accepted it would govern I presidential action except, perhaps, a few
situations in which the Council of Ministers would not be capable of advising
him by reason, for example, of it not existing when the President was supposed
to discharge a particular executive function," Shri Setalvad further narrates
two incidents when the President Dr. Rajendra Prasad asked his opinion on two
matters. The President wanted to know whether he could prevent the Hindu Code
Bill from becoming law. The Attorney General advised him that the President
was bound to act accordance the advice of his Ministers. On another occasion,
the President wanted to know whether, as the Supreme Commander of Forces, he
can send for individual army officers to elicit information about the defence
forces. In this case also, Shri Setalvad gave his answer in "firm negative".
Sir Alladi, whose views were also elicited by President Prasad on the same
sensitive issues, struck the same note thus :

> "In not stating in detail the incidents of responsible government, our
> Constitution has followed the example of most of Dominion Constitutions
> excepting that of Ireland. In the ease of Ireland, as is well known, having
> regard to the circumstances under which the Irish Constitution came into
> existence, an attempt has been made to state in detail the incident of the
> Cabinet Government." "The one point which the President misses in the note
> is that though the executive power is technically vested in the President,
> just as the same is vested in the Crown in England, under Article 74 of the
> Constitution a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister as the head has
> to aid and advise the President in the exercise of his functions. Article 74
> is all-pervasive in its character and does not make any distinction between
> one kind of fun- ction and another. It applies to every function and power
> vested in the President, whether it relates to addressing the House or
> returning a Bill for reconsideration or assenting or withholding assent to
> the Bill. it will be constitutionally improper for the President not to seek
> to be guided by the advice of his Ministers in exercising any of the
> functions legally or technically vested in the President. The expression aid
> and advise' in Article 74 cannot be construed so as to enable the President
> to act independently or against the advice of the Cabinet." "The President
> also misses in his Note the main point underlying Article Ill dealing with
> the power to remit a Bill for reconsideration. Here again, the President
> 862 is not intended to be a revisions or appellate authority over the
> Cabinet. A bill might have been introduced either by a private member or a
> member of the Cabinet. It may be rushed through in the Parliament. The
> Cabinet might notice an obvious slipped error after it-had passed the
> Houses. This power vested in the President is as much intended to be
> exercised on the advice of the Cabinet as any other power."

> "Through the discussion in the Constituent Assembly, the matter was put
> beyond doubt by Dr. Amebdkar and such of us as took a fairly leading part in
> the debates that every power conferred on the President has to be exercised
> by him according to the advice of the Ministers. Otherwise, he might be even
> guilty of violating the Constitution, vide Constituent Assembly Dbates, Vol.
> 7, pages 935, 998, 1158 and Vol. 9, p. 150 etc."

We are citing these opinions not as argumentum ad verecundium, although the
authors are legal celebrities, but because every fresh ex posure of this
sensitive constitutional issue found meaning fulresponse which molded the
shape and stabilized the course of the constitutional process early in its
history, Barring- murmurs in seminars and mild ,queries from high quarters the
constitution-in action has been well set on this theory of responsible
Government.

In Felix Frankfurter's phrase, this is the gloss which life ha-, written' on
our constitutional clauses, and the Court, true to its function,must try to
reflect that gloss by balancing in it sruling the origin, formulation, and
growth of a constitutional structure denying judicial aid to undermining the
democratic substance of Cabinet Government. A coup can be constitutionally
envisioned by an erroneously literal interpretation of the living words of the
Organic Law. Prof. Allen Glendhill, we must warn ourselves, wrote "Let us
assume that a President has been elected who has successfully concealed his
ambition to establish an authoritarian system of Government. One-fourth of the
members of a House of parliament, suddenly aware of the danger, give notice of
a motion to impeach the President. Before the fourteen days with,in which it
can be moved, the President dissolves Parliament, a new House must be elected
but it need not meet for six months. He dismisses the Ministers and appoints
others of his own choice, who for six months need not be Members of Parliament
and during that period he can legislate by Ordinance. He can issue a
proclamation of Emergency, legislate on any subject and deprive the States of
their shares in the proceeds of distributable taxes. He can issue directions
to States calculated to provoke disobedience and then suspend the
States'Constitutions. He can use the armed forces in support of the civil
power. He can promulgate preventive detention Ordinances and imprison his
opponents."

Again, that learned jurist has commented "The Constitution vests the executive
power of the Union in the President and provides that all executive action
shall  863 be taken in his name. The President is also given many powers,
shortly to be discussed, but the last fourteen years have shown the world that
India is a parliamentary democracy in which Ministers decide policy and carry
on Government, but the Constitution does not say in as many words that the
President must act on ministerial advice; what it says is that there shall be
a Council of Ministers to aid and advice the President; no court may inquire
into the question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered to the
President. What the Constitution contemplates is that normally the government
shall be carried on by a committee of Ministers selected from the elected
representatives of the people, but it recognizes that circumstances may arise
in which that system may break down, so it is discrable that there should be
some authority empowered to continue the government and set about restoring
parliamentary government as soon as possible. It is for this reason that the
Constitution legally vests the executive power in the President."

We cannot allow a confusion of vision' to creep into cur constitutional
interpretation because political scientists notice grave shortcomings in the
electoral process, social workers complain of corrupt misuse of power by
parties in officer the ordinary people find legislators indifferent and
ineffective. After all, any social scientist will. agree that in a rapidly
changing and inter-acting world the technology of Government by the people has
to be a continuous process of readjustment and fresh experiment. As Judges, we
only essay a creative understanding of the constitutional complex, not a
programme for possible innovations.

Since a constitution is a declaration of articles of faith, not a compilation
of laws, a prior pronouncement must be put out of the way if it has breached
our constitutional philosophy or amputated the amplitude of cardinal creeds
expressed in its vital words. Therefore, we have to examine what this Court
has held in the past, from the functional angle, on the President (or
Governor) vis a vis his Council. of Ministers, on the administrative power of
the High Court over the State Judicature and on the processual rights, if any
of a probationer before his precarious tenure is terminated.

The number of decisions of this Court and of the High Courts on the above
points is legion and the legal gossamer webs sometimes woven by them are so
fine that one sometimes wonders whether profusion of precedents beyond a point
become counter-productive in the understanding of the Constitution meant to
govern and therefore to be within the ken of the common man. We will focus
largely on the leading decisions, the rest of the skein of case-law wound
round the principal constitutional propositions deserving but passing
reference.

The overwhelming weight of judicial authority is in favour of the Cabinet
system of government as inscribed in the Constitution. Mukherjea, C. J., in
Rai Sahib Ram Jawya Kapur v. State of Punjab(1) observed:

(1) [1955] 2 SCR 225.

864

> "Our Constitution, though federal in its structure, is modelled on the
> British Parliamentary system where the executive is deemed to have the
> primary responsibility for the formulation of governmental policy and its
> transmission into law though the condition precedent to the exercise of this
> responsibility is its retaining the confidence of the legislative branch of
> the State.

> * * * * In India, as in England, the executive has to act subject to the
> control of the legislature; but in what way is this Control exercised by the
> legislature ? Under article 53 (1) of our Constitution, the executive power
> of the Union is vested in the President but under article 75 there is to be
> a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid and advise
> the President in the exercise of his functions. The President has thus been
> made a formal or constitutional head of the executive and the real executive
> powers are vested in the Ministers or the Cabinet. The same provisions
> obtain in regard to the Government of States; the Governor or the
> Rajpramukh, as the case may be, occupies the position of the head of the
> executive in the state but it is virtually the Council of Ministers in each
> state that carries on the executive Government. In the Indian Constitution,
> therefore, we have the same system of parliamentary executive as in England
> and the Council of Ministers consisting, as it does of the members of the
> legislatures like the British Cabinet." a hyphen which joins, a buckle which
> fastens the legislative part of the State to the executive part". The
> Cabinet enjoying, as it does, a majority in the legislature concentrates in
> itself the virtual control of both legislative and executive functions and
> as the Ministers constituting the Cabinet are presumably agreed on
> fundamentals and act on the principle of collective responsibility, the most
> important questions of policy are all formulated by them."

In Bejoy Lakshmi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. State of West Bengal (1) a' Constitution
Bench of this Court expressly ruled that "the Governor's personal satisfaction
was not necessary in this case as this is not an item of business with respect
to which the Governor is, by or under the Constitution, required to act in his
discretion. Although the executive Government of a State is vested in the
Governor, actually it is carried on by Ministers and, in this particular case,
under rr. 4 and 5 of the Rules of business, referred to above the business of
Government is to be transacted in the various departments specified in the
First Schedule thereof" (emphasis supplied).

In Sanjeevi Naidu v. State of Madras (2) the question arose whether in a case
where a central statute, namely the Motor Vehicles Act, vested certain powers
in the State Government, which by definition in the General Clauses Act means
the Governor, the order passed by the (1) [1967] 2 S.C.R. 406.

(2) [1970] 3 S.C.R. 505.

865

Minister to whom the relevant business had been allocated by the rules of
business was valid. Hegde, J., speaking for himself and his five colleagues,
observed:

> Under our Constitution, the Governor is essentially a constitutional head;
> the administration of Slate is run by the Council of Ministers. But in the
> very nature of things, it is impossible for the Council of Ministers to deal
> with each and every matter that comes before the Government. In order to
> obviate that difficulty the Constitution has authorized the Governor under
> sub-Art. (3) of Art 166 to make rules for the more convenient transaction of
> business of the government of the State and for the allocation amongst its
> Ministers, the business of the Government. All matters excepting those in
> which Governor is required to act in his discretion have to be allocated to
> one or the other of the Ministers on the advice of the Chief Minister. Apart
> from allocating business among the Ministers, the Governor can also make
> rules on the advice of his Council of Ministers for more convenient
> transaction of business. He cannot only allocate the various subjects
> amongst the Ministers but may go further and designate a particular official
> to discharge any particular function But this again he can do only on the
> advice of' the Council of Ministers.

The Cabinet is responsible to the legislature for every action taken in any of
the Ministries. That is the essence of joint responsibility. That does not
mean that each and every decision must be taken by the Cabinet. The political
responsibility of the Council of Ministers does not and cannot predicate the
personal responsibility of the Ministers to discharge all or any of the
governmental functions. Similarly an individual Minister is responsible to the
legislature for every action taken or omitted to be taken in his ministry.
This again is a political responsibility and not personal responsibility."
Again a Bench consisting of eleven Judges of this Court, in the well-known
Bank Nationalization case ( R. C. Cooper v. Union of India (1) pronounced on
the character of our constitution in these decisive words:

> "Under the Constitution, the President being the Constitutional head,
> normally acts in allmatters including the promulgation at an ordinance on
> the advice of his Council of Ministers. Whether in a given case the
> President may decline to be guided by the ad- vice of his council of
> Ministers is a matter which need nit detain us. The ordinance is promulgated
> in the name of the President and in a constitutional sense on his
> satisfaction; it is in truth promulgated on the advice of his Council of
> Ministers and on their satisfaction."

(1) [1970] 3 SCR 570.

9 Ll92SupCI/75 866 In a recent decision U. N. Rao v. Indira Gandhi. (1).
Sikri, C.J., speaking for a unanimous court, after reiterating that we are
interpreting a Constitution and not an Act of Parliament, a constitution which
establishes a parliamentary system of Government with a Cabinet', thought it
proper to keep in mind the conventions prevalent at the time the Constitution
was framed.

A curious facet of the cabinet system arose in that case viz, whether the
President could constitutionally continue his Council of Ministers to govern
the country instead of holding the reins in his own hands after the
Parliament, responsibility to which is the credential of the Cabinet to rule
in the name of the people, had been dissolved. The conspectus of clauses
bearing on the President's election, oath of office, legal capacity to carry
on the administration directly were all considered, and Sikri, C. J., declared
the law thus:

> "The Constituent Assembly did not choose the Presidential system of
> Government. If we were to give effect to this contention of the appellant we
> would be changing the whole concept of the Executive. It would mean that the
> President need not have a Prime Minister and Ministers to aid and advise in
> the exercise of his functions. As there would be no council of Ministers'
> nobody would be responsible to the House of the People. With the aid of
> advisers he would be able to rule the country at least till he is impeached
> under Article 61."

> * * * * The appellant urges that the House of People having been dissolved
> this clause cannot be complied with. According to him it follows from the
> provisions of this Clause that it was contemplated that on the dissolution
> of the House of People the Prime Minister and the other ministers must
> resign or be dismissed by the President and the President must carry on the
> Government as best as he can with the aid of the Services. As we have shown
> above, Article 74(1) is mandatory and, therefore, the President cannot
> exercise power without the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. We
> must then harmonize the provisions of Article 75 (3) with Article 74 (1) and
> Article 75(2). Article 75 (3) brings into existence what is usually called
> Responsible Government. In other words the Council of Ministers must enjoy
> the confidence of the House of People. While the House of People is- not
> dissolved under Article 82(2) (b) Article 75 (3) has full operation. But
> when it is dissolved the Council of Ministers cannot naturally enjoy the
> confidence of the House of People. Nobody has said that the Council of
> Ministers does not enjoy the confidence of the House of People when it is
> prorogued. In the context therefore, this clause must be read as meaning
> that Article 75(3) only applies when the House of People does not stand
> dissolved or prorogued. We are not concerned with the cases where
> dissolution of the House of People takes place under Article 83(2) on the
> expiration of the period of five years prescribed therein, for Parliament
> has provided for that contingency in S. 14 of the Representation of the
> People Act, 1951. (1) [1971] Supp. S.C.R. 46.

867

> On our interpretation other articles of the Constitution also have full
> play, i.e. Art 77(3) which contemplates allocation of business among
> Ministers, and Articles 78 which prescribes certain duties of Prime
> Minister."(emphasis supplied) The Constitutional right of the Ministry to
> continue in office after the dissolution of the State Assembly was
> highlighted in K. N. Rajagopal v. M. Karunanidhi. (1) This Court, adopting
> the ratio in Indira Gandhi's case (supra) repelled the challengeable' the U.
> K. Practice.

> The analysis which appeals to us, in the light of this Court's rulings,
> accords with the view expressed by Mr. Keith in his Preface to The King and
> the Imperial Crown' :

> "It is a conviction of the public in the self- governing Dominions of the
> Crown that the Governor-General in matters official serves no more
> distinguished purpose than-that of a rubber stamp'.

> As for the semantic gap between the verbal and the real, even in England, as
> William Paley has explained :

> "there exists a wide difference between the actual state of the government
> and the theory. When we contemplate the theory of the British government; we
> see the king vested with a power of rejecting laws. Yet when we turn our
> attention from the legal extent to the actual exercise of royal authority in
> England we see these formidable prerogatives dwindled into more ceremonies;
> and in their stead a sure and commanding influence of which the
> constitution, it seems, is totally ignorant."

In Blackstone's commentaries on the Laws of England, said Dicey, students
might read that the Constitution concentrated all executive power in the hands
of the King. The language of this passage', he remarked, is impressive......
It has but one fault : the statements it contains are the direct opposite of
the truth".' The President in India is not at all a glorified cipher. He
represents the majesty of the State, is at the apex, though only symbolically,
and has rapport with the people and parties, being above politics. His
vigilant presence makes for good government if only he uses, what Bagehot
described as, the right to be consulted, to warn and encourage'. Indeed, Art.
78 wisely used, keeps the President in close touch with the Prime Minister on
matters of national importance and policy significance, and there is no doubt
that the imprint of his personality may chasten and correct the political
government, although the actual exercise of the functions entrusted to him by
law is in effect and in law carried on by his duly appointed mentors. i.e.,
the Prime Minister and his colleagues. In short, the President, like the King,
has not merely been constitutionally romanticized but actually vested with a
pervasive and persuasive role. Political theorists are quite conversant with
the dynamic role of the Crown which keeps away from politics and power (1) AIR
1971 SC 1551.

868

and yet influences both. While he plays such a role, he is not a rival centre
of power in any sense and must abide by and act on the advice tendered by his
Ministers except in a narrow territory which is sometimes slippery. Of course,
there is some qualitative difference between the position of the President and
the Governor. The former, under Art. 74 has no discretionary powers; the
latter too has none, save in the tiny strips covered by Art. 163(2), 371 A
(1)b & (d) 371 A (2)(b) and (f), VI Schedule para 9(2) (and VI Schedule para
18(3) _ until omitted recently with effect from 21-1-1972). These
discretionary powers exist only where expressly spelt out and even these are
not left to the sweet will of the Governor but are remote-controlled by the
Union Ministry which is answerable to Parliament for those actions. Again, a
minimal area centering round reports to be dispatched under Art. 356 may not,
in the nature of things, be amenable to ministerial advice. The practice of
sending periodical reports to the Union Government is a pre-constitutional one
and it is doubtful if a Governor could or should report behind the back of his
Ministers. For a Centrally appointed constitutional functionary to keep a
dossier on his Ministers or to report against them or to take up public
stances critical of Government policy settled by the cabinet or to interfere
in the administration directly-these are unconstitutional faux pas and run
counter to parliamentary system. In all his constitutional functions' it is
the Ministers who act; only in the narrow area specifically marked out for
discretionary exercise by the Constitution, he is untrammeled by the State
Ministers' acts and advice. Of course, a limited free- wheeling is available
regarding choice of Chief Minister and dismissal of the Ministry, as in the
English practice adapted to Indian conditions.

Shri Sanghi, counsel for the appellant, adopted an ingenious argument to get
round the holdings of this Court that India has accepted the Cabinet form of
Government, by urging that while the Ministers exercise powers by virtue of
allocation of business of Government under Art. 77(3) and have, on the
strength of Art. 74, the authority to discharge all the functions of the head
of State, still wherever the Cons- titution has expressly vested powers in the
President by Governor, they belong to him alone and cannot be handled on his
behalf by Ministers under the relevant Rules of Business. He concedes that we
cannot read the Articles literally in the context of a Parliamentary Executive
but insists on an exception in the category just mentioned. Inspiration for
this argument comes from Sardarilal (2) and a few other Cases which do lead
countenance to this rather extravagant claim of personal power for President
and Governor. How ambitious and subversive such an interpretation can be to
Parliamentary (and popular) authority unfolds itself when we survey the wide
range of vital powers so enunciated in the Constitution. The argument of the
counsel for the appellant is that wherever the President is invested with
power-and the same holds good for the Governor-he is sovereign in his own
right and has to exercise the functions personally and the orders of a proxy,
even a Minister, cannot do duty for the exercise of Presidential power. There
is logic in arguing  869 that if, under Art. 31 1, the President or Governor
means President or Governor personally. under other similar Articles the rules
of business making over exercise of functions to Ministers and officers cannot
be valid. Indeed, a whole host of such Articles exist in the Constitution,
most of them very vital for the daily running of the administration and
embracing executive, emergency and legislative powers either of a routine or
momentous nature. The power to grant pardon or to remit sentence (Art. 161),
the power to make appointments including of the Chief Minister (Art 164), the
Advocate General (Art. 165), the District Judges (Art. 233), the Members of
the Public Service Commission (Art. 316) are of this category. Likewise, the
power to prorogue either House of Legislature or to dissolve the Legislative
Assembly (Art. 174) the right to address or send messages to the Houses of the
Legislature (Art. 175 and Art.16), the power to assent to Bills or with- hold
such assent (Art. 200), the power to make recommendations for demands of
grants (Art.203(3)), and the duty to cause to be laid every year the annual
budget (Art.

202), the power to promulgate ordinances during recesses of the Legislature
(Art. 213) also belong to this species of power. Again, the obligation to make
available to the Election Commission the requisite staff for discharging the
functions conferred by Art. 324(1) on the Commission (Art. 324 (6)), the power
to nominate a member of the Anglo-Indian Community to the Assembly in certain
situations (Art. 333), the power to authorize the use of Hindi in the
proceedings in the High Court (Art. 348(2)), are illustrative of the functions
of the Governor qua Governor.

Similarly, the President is entrusted with powers and duties covering a wide
range by the Articles of the Constitution. Indeed, he is the Supreme Commander
of the Armed Forces (Art 53(2)), appoints Judges of the Supreme Court and the
High Courts and determines the latter's age when dispute arises, has power to
refer questions for the Advisory opinion of the Supreme Court.(Art 143) and
has power to hold that Government of a State cannot be carried in accordance
with the Constitution (Art. 356). The Auditor-General, the Attorney General,
the Governors and the entire army of public servants hold office during the
pleasure of the President. Bills cannot become law, even if passed by
Parliament, without the assent of the President. Recognizing and derecognising
rulers of former native States of India is a power vested in the President.
The extraordinary powers of legislation by Ordinances, dispensing with
enquiries against public servants before dismissal, declaration of emergency
and imposition of President's rule by proclamation upon States. are vast
powers of profound significance. Indeed, even the power of summoning and
proroguing and dissolving the House of the People and returning Bills passed
by the Parliament belongs to him. If only we expand the ratio of Sardarilal
(2) and Jayantilal (12) to every function which the various Articles of the
Constitution confer on the President or the Governor, Parliamentary democracy
will become a dope and national elections a numerical exercise in expensive
futility. We will be compelled to hold that there are two parallel authorities
exercising powers of governance of the country, as in the dyarchy days, except
that Whitehall is substituted by Rashtrapati Bhavan and Raj Bhawan. The
Cabinet will shrink at Union and State levels in political and administrative
authority and,, 870 having solemn regard to the gamut of his powers and
responsibilities, the Head of State will be a reincarnation of Her Majesty's
Secretary of State for India, untroubled by even the British Parliament-a
little taller in power than the American President, Such a distortion, by
interpretation, it appears to us, would virtually amount to a subversion of
the structure, substance and vitality of our Republic, particularly when we
remember that Governors are but appointed functionaries and the President
himself is elected on a limited indirect basis. As we have already indicated
the overwhelming catena of authorities of this Court have established over the
decades that the cabinet form.-of Government and the Parliamentary system have
been adopted in India and the contrary concept must be rejected as incredibly
allergic to our political genius, constitutional creed and culture.

The contention of the appellant, however, has been built upon Sardari Lal v.
Union of India.(2) There the Court had to consider the exercise of powers
expressly conferred on the President by cl. (c) of the proviso to. Art. 311(2)
of the Constitution'. it was common ground in that case that the President had
no occasion to deal with the case of the appellant himself and the order was
made by a subordinate official of the Government of India. The dispute was as
to whether the function of dispensing with enquiry in the name of the security
of the State had to be performed by the President personally,under cl. (10) of
the proviso to Art. 311 (2), of could be one of the functions allocable under
the Allocation of Business Rules. Of course, the relevant text of Art. 311
speaks of the President being satisfied and the Court came to the conclusion
that what was intended was not Ministerial but Presidential satisfaction.
Grover, J., speaking for a unanimous Court, observed.

> "On the principles which have been enunciated by this Court, the function in
> clause (c) of the proviso to Art. 311(2) cannot be delegated by the
> President to any one else in the case of a civil servant of the Union. In
> other words he has to be satisfied personally that in the interest of the
> security of the State, it is not expedient to hold the inquiry prescribed by
> clause (2). In the first place, the general consensus has been that
> executive functions of the nature entrusted by the Articles, some of which
> have been mentioned before and in particular those Articles in which the
> President has to be satisfied himself about the existence of certain fact or
> state of affairs cannot be delegated by him to any one else. Secondly even
> with regard to clause(c) of the proviso, there is a specific observation in
> the passage extracted above from the case of Jayantilal Amrit Lal Shodhan
> that the powers of the President under that provision cannot be delegated.
> Thirdly, the dichotomy which has. been specifically introduced between the
> authority mentioned in clause (b) and the President mentioned in clause (c)
> of the proviso cannot be without significance, The Constitution makers
> apparently felt that a matter in which the in- terest of the security of the
> State has to be considered should receive the personal attention of the
> President or the head of the State and he should be himself satisfied that
> an inquiry under the  871 substantive part of clause (2) of Art. 311 was not
> expedient for the reasons stated in clause

> (c) of the proviso in the case of particular servant".

Some observations in the ruling relied upon, namely Jayantilal Amritlal
Shodhan v. F N. Rama (1) apparently seem to support the conclusion reached in
Sardarilal,(Supra) but it must be remembered that the actual case turned on
the constitutionality of the President delegating executive powers conferred
on him by Art. 258 to a government of a State. In that case a distinction was
made between functions with which the Union Government is invested and those
vested in the President. The Court took the view that Art.258 (1) did not
permit the President to part with powers and functions with which he is, by
express provisions of the Constitution qua President, invested. The particular
observations relied upon in Sardarilal may well be extracted here:

> "The power to promulgate Ordinances under Art. 123; to suspend the
> provisions of Arts. 268 to 279 during an emergency; to declare failure of
> the Constitutional machinery in States under Art. 356; to declare a
> financial emergency under Art. 360 to make rules regarding the recruitment
> and conditions of service of persons appointed to posts and services in
> connection with the affairs of the Union under Art. 309-to enumerate a few
> out of the various powers-are not powers of the Union Government; these are
> powers vested in the President by the Constitution and are incapable of
> being delegated or entrusted to any other body or authority under Art. 258
> (1). The plea that the very nature of these powers is such that they could
> not be intended to be entrusted under Art. 258 (1) to the State or officer
> of the State, and, therefore, that clause must have a limited content,
> proceeds upon an obvious fallacy. Those powers cannot be de- legated under
> Art. 258(1) because they are not the powers of the Union and not because of
> their special character. There is a vast array of other powers exercisable
> by the President-to mention only a few appointment of judges; Art. 124 &
> 217, appointment of Committees of Official Languages Act, Art. 344,
> appointment of Commissions to investigate conditions of backward classes;
> Art. 340, appointment of Special Officer for Scheduled Castes and Tribes;
> Art. 338, exercise of his pleasure to terminate employment; Art. 310
> declaration that in the interest of the secu- rity of the State it is not
> expedient to give a public servant sought to be dismissed an opportunity
> contemplated by Art. 311 (2)-these are executive powers of the President and
> may not be delegated or entrusted to another body or officer because they do
> not fall within Art. 258".

The Court there was not concerned with the question whether the President must
exercise these executive powers personally or they can be exercised by a
Minister or an officer on his behalf according to the allocation made under
the Rules of Business.

(1) [1964] 5 S.C.R. 294, 307 & 308\.

872

Before jettisoning wholesale the theory of absolute power of Presidency we
must deal with two Articles of the Constitution, one relating to the
determination of the age of High Court Judges [Art 217 (3)] and the other
relating to the Election Commission (Art 361) which have come up for judicial
consideration. Counsel for the appellant has relied on passages from these
cases which hark back, in a way, to the, theory of individual judgment of the
Head of State.

In J. P. Mitter v. Chief Justice, Calcutta (1) this Court had to consider the
decision of the Government of India on the age of a Judge of the Calcutta High
Court and, in that context, had to ascertain the true scope and effect of Art.
217 (3) which clothes the President with exclusive jurisdiction to determine
the age of a Judge finally. In that case the Ministry of Home Affairs went
through the exercise prescribed in Art. 217 (3). "The then Home Minister wrote
to the Chief Minister, West Bengal, that he had consulted the Chief Justice of
India, and he agreed with the advice given to him by the Chief Justice, and so
he had decided that the date of birth of the appellant was it is this decision
which was, in due course communicated to the appellant." When the said
decision was attacked as one reached by the Home Minister only and not by the
President personally, the Court observed:

> "The alternative stand which the appellant took was that the Executive was
> not entitled to determine his age; and it must be remembered that this stand
> was taken before Art. 217 (3) was inserted in the Constitution; the
> appellant was undoubtedly justified in contending that the Executive was not
> competent to determine the question about his age because that is a matter
> which would have to be tried normally,in judicial proceedings instituted
> before High Courts of competent jurisdiction. There is considerable force in
> the plea which the appellant took at the initial stages of this controversy
> that if the Executive is allowed to determine the age of a sitting Judge of
> a High Court, that would seriously affect the independence of the Judiciary
> itself."

Based on this reasoning, the Court quashed the order, the ratio of the case
being that the President himself should decide the age of the Judge,
uninfluenced by the Executive, i.e. by the Minister in charge of the portfolio
dealing with Justice.

This decision was reiterated in Union of India v. Jyoti Prakash Mitter. (2)
Although an argument was made that the President was guided in that case by
the Minister of Home Affairs and by the Prime Minister, it was repelled by the
Court which, on the facts, found the decision to be that of the President
himself and not of the Prime Minister or the Home Minister.

In the light of the scheme of the Constitution we have already referred to it
is doubtful whether such an interpretation as to the personal satisfaction of
the President is correct. We are of the view that (1) [1965] 2 S.C.R. 53, 68.

(2) [1971] 3 S.C.R. 483.

873

the President means, for all practical purposes, the Minister or the Council
of Ministers as the case may be, and his opinion, satisfaction or decision is
constitutionally secured when his Ministers arrive at. such opinion,
satisfaction or decision. The independence of the Judi- ciary, which is a
cardinal principle of the Constitution and has been relied on to justify the
deviation, is guarded by the relevant Article making consultation with the
Chief Justice of India obligatory. In all conceivable cases consultation with
that highest dignitary of Indian-. justice will and should be accepted by the
Government of India and the Court will have an opportunity to examine if any
other extraneous, circumstances have entered into the verdict of the Minister,
if he departs from the counsel given by the Chief Justice of India. In
practice the last word in such a sensitive subject must belong to the Chief
Justice of India, the rejection of his advice being ordinarily regarded as,
prompted by oblique considerations vitiating the order. In this view it is
immaterial whether the President or the Prime Minister or the Minister for
Justice formally decides the issue., In Brundaban Nayak V, Election Commission
(1) another Sensitive situation relating to the functions of the President
(Art. 103) and the Governor (Art. 192) arose. It is a sacred principle of our
democracy, like the independence of the Judiciary, that decisions on the
disqualifications of Members of Assemblies should be unbiased. While formally
the power to decide a dispute in this behalf is vested in the President and
the Governor under Arts 103 and 192 respectively, it would be a travesty of
impartiality if such decision were to be made on the aid and advice of a
Ministry which is essentially chosen from a party or combination of parties.
How can a political activist with party loyalty in our pluralistic society
judge a cause in which he has deep, concern. Therefore the Constitution has
made the Election Commission the real arbiter in the dispute, it being assumed
that the Election Commission is free and fearless and unobliged to the party
in power. The constitutional mechanism is that the President (Govern,, shall
refer the question of disqualification of a member for the opinion of the
Election Commission and shall act according to such opinion', so that whether
the right to decide is formally in the President or is to be exercised by the
aid and advice of his Ministers, it is immaterial, since the actual
adjudication has always to be made by the Election Commission which binds the
Government and the President merely appends his signature to the order in
regard to such decision. in this view, Brundaban(2) deals with a special
situation and does not affect the otherwise universal rule of the Head of
State being bound to act only in accordance with the aid and advice of his
Ministers.

Gajendragadkar, C. J., outlined the scheme relating to the decision about the
disqualification of members of the Legislature, at p.60, thus::

> "The object of this provision (Art 192) clearly is to leave it to the
> Election Commission to decide the matter, though the decision as such would
> formally be pronounced in the (1) [1965] 3 S.C.R. 53.

> (2) Constitutional Government in India-by M. V. Pylee p. 770-1965 Edition--
> Asia Publishing House.

874

> name of the Governor. When the Governor pronounces his decision under Art.
> 192 (1), he is not required to consult his Council of Ministers; he is not
> even required to consider and decide the matter himself; he has merely to
> forward the question to the Election Commission for its opinion, and as soon
> as the ;opinion is received, he shall act according to such opinion'. In
> regard to complaints made against the election of members to the Legislative
> Assembly, the jurisdiction to decide such Complaints is left with the
> Election Tribunal under the relevant provisions of the Act. That means that
> all allegations made challenging the validity of the election of any member,
> have to be tried by the Election Tribunals constituted by the Election
> Commission. Similarly,all complaints in respect to disqualifications
> subsequently incurred by members who have been validly elected, have, in
> substance to be tried by the Election Commission, though the decision in
> form has to be pronounced by the Governor."

All these add up to making a Sovereign who can scotch the Legislature,
rubberize the judiciary and overrule the Cabinet. One has only to case a
glance at similar powers relating to the Governor to reach the same conclusion
at the State level,with the additional fact or that an `area of discretionary
Power is expressly left to him. What is of grave import is that the Court has
no jurisdiction to inquire what advice has been given by the Ministers to the
President or the Governor and thus the effective judicial check on exercise of
power is also under eclipse. If we read these powers literally as personal' to
the Head of State. the conclusion is rather disquieting in a country which has
already had a long night of imperial subjection and monarchical tradition. Dr.
Ambedkar expressed this warning in the Constituent Assembly in words Which
have contemporary relevance:

> "This caution is far more necessary in the case of India than, in the case
> of any other country. For, in India, Bhakti or what may be called the path
> of devotion or hero- worship,plays.part in its politics unequaled in
> magnitude by the part it plays in the poli- tics of any other country in the
> world. Bhakti in religion may be a road to the salvation or the soul. But in
> politics, Bhakti or hero-worship is a sure road to degradation and eventual
> dictatorship.

The omnipotence of the President and of the Governor at State level is
euphemistically inscribed in the pages of our Fundamental Law with the obvious
intent that even where express conferment of power or functions is written
into the Articles, such business has to redisposed of decisively by the
Ministry answerable to the Legislature and through it vicariously to the
people, thus vindicating our democracy instead of surrendering it to a single
summit soul whose deification is incompatible with the basis of our political
architecture lest national elections become Dead Sea fruits, legislative
organs become labels full of sound and fury signifying nothing and the Council
of Ministers put in a quandary of responsibility to the House of the People
and submission to the personal decision of the Head of State. A parliamentary
style Republic like ours could not have conceptualized its self-liquidation by
this process.

875

on the contrary, democratic capital-formation to strengthen the people' rights
can be achieved only through invigoration of the mechanism of Cabinet House
Elections. Certainly, the key words of wide import in the fasciculus of
Articles relating to the President and Governor are functions' (Arts. 74 &
163) and business' and allocation of portfolios, rules of business and deice
nation to subordinate officials are but the methodology of working out the
Cabinet process. Long arguments on the terminological niceties of the various
provisions, divorced from the essentials of parliamentary perspective, will
land us in Himalayan' constitutional blunders. Similarly, expressions like is
satisfied', opinion' as he thinks fit', if it appears to' have to be
interpreted by super-imposing the invisible but very real presence of the
Ministry over the Head of State.

Before we conclude on this part of the case we remind ourselves that so long
as the Constitution shall endure-no one can say how long, each generation
being almost a separate nation this Court must exist with it, deciding in the
peaceful forms of forensic proceeding, the delicate and dangerous
controversies inter alia, between sub-soverei- gnties and citizens. And the
pronouncements of this summit tribunal being law under Art. 141, it binds
until reinterpreted differently and competently. But as Judges we have
solemnly to remind ourselves of the words of the historian of the U. S.
Supreme Court, Mr. Charles Warren(1):

> "However the Court interpret the provisions of the Constitution, it is still
> the Constitution which is the law and not the decision of the Court."

Nor is Sardarilal(2)of such antiquity and moment that are versal would upset
the sanctity of stare decision. Some rulings, even of the highest Court, when
running against the current of case-and the clear stream of Constitutional
thought, may have to fall into the same class as restricted railroad ticket,
goods for the day and train only, to adopt the language of Justice Roberts (
Smith v. Alleright, 321 U. S. 649, 665).

We declare the law of this branch of our Constitution to be that the President
and Governor, custodians of all executive and other powers under various
Articles, shall, by virtue of these provisions, exercise their formal
constitutional powers only upon and in accordance with the advice of their
Ministers save in a few well known exceptional situations. Without being
dogmatic or exhaustive, these situations relate to (a) the choice of Prime
Minister (Chief Minister) restricted thought his choice. is by the paramount
consideration that he should command majority in the House;

(b) the dismissal of a Government which has lost its majority in the House but
refuses to quit office; (c) the dissolution of the House where an appeal to
the country is necessitous, although in this area the Head of State should
avoid getting involved in politics and must be -advised by his Prime Minister
(Chief Minister) who. will eventually take the responsibility for the step. We
do not examine in detail the constitutional proprieties in these predicaments
except to utter the (1) The Supreme Court in United States History, III p.
470- 471 (1922).

876

caution that even here the action must be compelled by the peril to democracy
and the appeal to the House or to the country must become blatantly
obligatory' We have no doubt that de Smith's statement (1) regarding royal
assent holds good for the President and Governor in India :

> " Refusal of the royal assent on the ground that the monarch strongly
> disapproved of a bill or that it was intensely controversial would
> nevertheless be unconstitutional. The only circunistances in which the
> withholding of the royal assent might be justifiable would be if the
> Government itself were to advise such a courses highly improbable conti
> ngency-or possibly if it was notorious that a bill had been passed in
> disregard to mandatory procedural requirements; but since the Government in
> the later situation would be of the opinion that the deviation would not
> effect the validity of the measure once it had been assented to, prudence
> would suggest the giving of assent."

So far as the appeals before us are concerned, the effect is that there is no
infirmity in the impugned orders on the score that the Governor has not
himself pursued the papers or passed the orders.

The second spinal issue in the ease, as earlier indicated, bears Oil fearless
justice, another prominent creed of our Constitution. The independence of the
Judiciary is a fighting faith of our founding document. Since the days of Lord
Coke, judicial independence from executive control has been accomplished in
England. The framers of our Constitution, impressed by this example have
fortified the cherished value of the rule of law by incorporating provisions
to insulate the judicature. Justice becomes fair and free only if
institutional immunity and autonomy are guaranteed (of course there are other
dimensions to judicial independence which are important but irrelevant for the
present discussion). The exclusion of executive interference with the
Subordinate Judiciary, i.e., grass- roots justice, can prove a teasing
illusion if the control over them is vested in two masters viz., the High
Court and the Government, the latter being otherwise stronger. Some- times a
transfer could be more harmful than punishment and discipline control by the
High Court can also be stultified by an appellate jurisdiction being vested in
Government over the High Court's administrative orders. This constitutional
perspective informed the framer of our Constitution when they enacted the
relevant Articles, 233 to 237. Any interpretation of administrative
jurisdiction of the High Court over its subordinate limbs must be aglow with
the thought that separation of the Executive from the Judiciary is a cardinal
principle of our Constitution. However, we do not pursue this question further
since in the-present case, Government has agreed with and acted on the High
Court's recommendation' and, moreover, the methodology of conflict resolution,
when the view of the High Court is unpalatable to the Executive, falls to be
directly considered in a different set of pending appeals.

(1) Constitutional and Administrative Law-by S.A. de Smith- Penguin Books on
Foundations of Law.

877

Nevertheless, we must refer to one aspect of the matter. It is nice on paper
to invest disciplinary authority over the subordinate judiciary in the High
Court. But when charges or aspersions of corrupt practice or incompetence
against the members of the lower judiciary are brought to the Cognizance of
the High Court, there is an operational handicap. Who is to investigate into
the truth of the allegations? Is there a machinery at the exclusive disposal
of the High Court to probe into the primefacie veracity of such complaints? It
is awkward and, ineffectual for a superior Judge, trained in formal procedures
and weighing and not collecting evidence, to undertake the sub-rosa, informal,
extensive and technical job of investigation which demands a different kind of
expertise. At the same time if the police are permitted to check upon
complaints, the successful invasion of judicial independence is inevitable. No
Magistrate may function fearlessly if the prosecuting de- partment may also
investigate against him. It is indeed regrettable that this sensitive side of
the issue was overlooked by the Punjab High Court when it requested Government
to direct the Vigilance Commissioner to report on a member of the judicature.
The true intendment of judicial independence is fulfilled not by declining to
investigate into delinquencies of judicial personnel nor by holding an open
enquiry by a Judge which is a poor substitute for collection of evidence but
by creating an apparatus for collecting intelligence and presenting evidence
which is under the complete control of the High Court. This is no new idea but
had been mooted in the 50s at an all-India Law Minister's Conference but at
least, now after such a long lapse of time, this felt want may be remedied.
The third contention, argued elaborately by both sides, turns on the scope and
sweep of Art. 311 in the background of the rules framed under Art. 309 and the
pleaser' doctrine expressed in Art. 310. The two probationers, who are
appellants, have contended that what purport to be simple terminations of
probation on the ground of unsuitability' are really and in substance by way
of punishment and falling short of the rigorous prescriptions of Art. 311 (2),
they are bad. Their complaint is that penal consequences have been visited on
them by the impugned orders and since even a probationer is protected by Art.
311 (2), in such situations the Court must void those orders. Naturally, the
launching pad of the argument is Dhingra's Case (supra). In a sense, Dhingra
is the Manga Carta of the Indian civil servant, although it has spawned
diverse judicial trends, difficult to be disciplined into one single, simple,
practical formula applicable to termination of probation of freshens and of
the services of temporary employees. The Judicial search has turned the focus
on the discovery of the element of punishment in the order passed by
Government. If the proceedings are disciplinary, the rule in Dhingra's Case
(1) is attracted. But if the termination is innocuous and does not stigmatize
the probationer or temporary servant, the constitutional shield of Art. 311 is
unavailable. In a series of cases, the Court has wrestled with the problem of
devising a principle or rule to determine this questions' where non-punitive
termination of probation for unsuitability ends and punitive action for
delinquency begins. In Gopi Kishore (2) this Court ruled that where the State
(1) A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 36.

(2) A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 689.

878

holds an enquiry on the basis of Complaints of misconduct against a
probationer or temporary servant, the employer must be presumed to have
abandoned his right to terminate sine pliciter and to have undertaken
disciplinary proceedings bringing in its wake the protective operation of Art
311. At first flush, the distinguishing mark would therefore appear to be the
holding of an inquiry into the complaints of misconduct Sinha C. J., observed
:

> "It is true that, if the Government came to the conclusion that the
> respondent was not a fit and proper person to hold a post in the public
> service of the State, it could dis- charge him without holding any enquiry
> into his alleged misconduct. Instead of taking that easy course, the
> Government chose the more difficult one of starting proceedings against him
> and of branding him as a dishonest and incompetent officer. He had the
> right, in those circumstances, to insist upon the pro- tection of Art. 311
> (2) of the Constitution." The learned Chief Justice summarized the legal
> position thus:

> "1. Appointment to a post on probation gives the person so appointed no
> right to the post and his services may be terminated, without taking
> recourse to the proceedings laid down in the relevant rules for dismissing a
> public servant. or removing him from service.

> 2\. The termination of employment of a person holding a post on probation
> without any enquiry whatsoever cannot be said to deprive him off any right
> to a post and is, therefore, no punishment.

> 3\. But if instead of terminating such a person's service without any
> enquiry, the employer chooses to hold an enquiry into his alleged
> misconduct, or inefficiency, or foursome similar reason, the termination of
> servicers by way of punishment, because it puts a stigma on his competence
> and thus affects his future career. In such a case, he is entitled to the
> protection of Art. 311 (2) of the Constitution.

> 4........

> 5\. But, if the employer simply terminates the services of a probationer
> without holding an enquiry and without giving him a reasonable chance of
> showing cause against his removal from service, the probationary civil
> servant can have no cause of action, even though the real motive behind the
> removal from service may have been that his employer thought him to be
> unsuitable for the post he was temporarily holding, on account of his
> misconduct, or inefficiency, or some such cause."

The 5th proposition states that the real motive behind the removal is
irrelevant and the holding of an enquiry leaving an indelible stain as a
consequence alone attracts Art. 311 (2) Ram Narayan Das (1) dealt with a case
where the rules under the proviso to Art. 309 provided some sort of an enquiry
before termination of probation. in such (1) A.I.R. 1961 S.C. 177.

879

a case, the enquiry test would necessarily break down and so the Court had to
devise a different test. Mr. Justice Shah (as he then was) stated the rule
thus :

> "The enquiry against the respondent was for ascertaining whether he was fit
> to be confirmed. The third proposition in (the Gopi Kishore) case refers to
> an enquiry into allegations of misconduct or inefficiency with a view, if
> they were found established, to imposing punishment and not to an enquiry
> whether a probationer should be confirmed. Therefore, the fact of holding of
> an enquiry is not decisive of the question. What is decisive is whether the
> order is by way of punishment, in the light of the tests laid down in
> Purshottam lal Dhmgra's Case."

Thus a shift was made from the factum of enquiry to the object of the enquiry.
Madan Gopal (1) found the Court applying the object of enquiry doctrine to a
simple order of termination which had been pre by a show cause notice and
enquiry. It was held that if the enquiry was intended to take traumatic
action, the innocent phraseology of the order made no difference. Then came
Jagdish Mitter v.Union of India (2) where Mr. Justice Gajendragadkar (as he
then was) held "No doubt the order purports to be one of discharge and, as
such, can be referred to the power of the authority to terminate the temporary
appointment with one month's notice. But it seems to us that when the order
refers to the fact that the appellant was found undesirable to be retained in
Government ser- vice, it expressly casts a stigma on the appellant and in that
sense, must be hold to be an order of dismissal and not a mere order of
discharge."

Thus we see how memberanous distinctions have been evolved between an enquiry
merely to ascertain unsuitability and one held to punish the delinquent-to
impractical and uncertain, particularly when we remember that the machinery to
apply this delicate test is the administrator, untrained in legal nuances. The
impact on the fired' individual, be it termination of probation or removal
from service, is often the same. Referring to the anomaly of the object of
inquiry, test, Dr. Tripathi has pointed out (3) "The object of inquiry' rule
discourages this fair procedure and the impulse of justice behind it by
insisting that the order setting up the inquiry will be judicially scrutinized
for the purpose of ascertaining the object of the inquiry."

Again. could it be that if you summarily pack off a probationer, the order is
judicially inscrutable and immune ? If you conscientiously seek to satisfy
yourself about allegations by some sort of enquiry you get caught in the coils
of law, however harmlessly the order may be phrased? And, so this sphinx-
complex has had to give (1) A I.R. 1963 S.C. 531. (2) A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 449.
(3) Spotlights on Constitutional Interpretation-1972-N. M. Tripathi Pvt. Ltd.,
Bombay.

880

way in later cases. In some cases the rule of guidance has been stated to be
the substance of the matter' and the foundation' of the order. When does
motive' trespass into foundation'? When do we lift the veil of form to touch
the substance'? When the Course says so. Those Freudian' frontiers obviously
fail in the work-a-day world and Dr. Tripathi's observations in this context
are not without force. He says "As already explained, in a situation where the
order of termination purports to be a mere order of discharge without stating
the stigmatizing results of the departmental enquiry a search for the
substance of the matter' will be indistinguishable from a search for the
motive (real, unrevealed object) of the order. Failure to appreciate this
relationship between motive (the real, but unrevealed object) and from (the
apparent, or officially revealed object in the present context has led to an
unreal interplay of words and phrases wherein symbols like motive', substance'
form or direct parade in different combinations without communicating precise
situations or entities in the world of facts."

The need, in this branch of jurisprudence, is not so much to reach perfect
justice but to lay down a plain test which the administrator and civil servant
can understand without subtlety and apply without difficulty. After all,
between unsuitability' and misconduct' thin partitions do their bounds
divide'. And, over the years, in the rulings of this Court the accent has
shifted, the canons have varied and predictability has proved difficult
because the play of legal light and shade has been baffling. The learned Chief
Justice has in his judgment, tackled this problem and explained the rule which
must govern the determination of the question as to when termination of
service of a probationer can be said to amount to discharge simpliciter and
when it can be said to amount to punishment so as to attract the inhibition of
Art.311. We are in agreement with what the learned, Chief Justice has said in
this connection. So far as the present case is concerned, it is clear on the
facts set out in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice that there is
breach of the requirements of Rule 7 and the orders of termination passed
against the appellants are, on that account liable to be quashed and set a
side. In the result, we agree with the conclusion reached by the learned Chief
Justice and concur in the order proposed by him.

P.H.P.

881

