

Customs, Excise and Gold Tribunal - Tamil Nadu

Rukmani Pakkwell Traders vs Commissioner Of Central Excise on 3 January, 2008

Equivalent citations: 2008 (127) ECC 166, 2008 (153) ECR 166 Tri Chennai

Bench: P Chacko, K T P.

ORDER P.G. Chacko, Member (J)

1\. This appeal filed by the assessee is against a demand of duty on 'scented
supari' for the period 01.04.1995 to 25.09.1995. The above product resulted
from the activity of cracking of betelnut followed by roasting, coating with
oil and addition of sweetening and flavouring agents. This activity was
undertaken by one M/s. ARR Enterprises, from whom the assessee purchased the
product in bulk and repacked and marketed. The assessee considered the
repacked product to be not excisable as, according to them, the above activity
did not amount to 'manufacture' as defined under Section 2(f) of the Central
Excise Act. However, they were constrained to file a classification list
classifying the products under SH 2106.90 under protest in May, 1994. The
department did not accept their protest and hence issued a show-cause notice
to vacate it. They issued a second notice demanding duty on the above item by
classifying it under SH 2107.00 and denying them SSI benefit. Both the show-
cause notices came to be adjudicated upon, against the assessee and the matter
has ultimately reached this Tribunal.

2\. Learned Counsel submits that the assessee's claim of non-excisability of
the item stands accepted in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Crane
Betel Nut power Works v. Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise, Tirupathi .
In that case, the question considered by the apex court was whether mechanical
crushing of betelnuts into smaller pieces and passing them through different
sizes of sieves to obtain different sizes/grades followed by sweetening
amounted to 'manufacture' or not. The issue was answered in paragraphs 30 and
31 of the apex court's judgment, which are reproduced below:

30\. In our view, the process of manufacture employed by the appellant-company
did not change the nature of the end product, which in the words of the
Tribunal, was that in the end product the 'betel nut remains a betel nut'. The
said observation of the Tribunal depicts the status of the product prior to
manufacture and thereafter. In those circumstances, the views expressed in the
D.C.M. General Mills Ltd. (supra) and the passage from the American Judgment
(supra) become meaningful. The observation that manufacture implies a change,
but every change of not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the
result of treatment, labour and manipulation is apposite to the situation at
hand. The process Involved in the manufacture of sweetened betel nut pieces
does not result in the manufacture of a new product as the end product
continues to retain its original character though in a modified form.

31\. In our view, the Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise (Appeals) has
correctly analysed the factual as well as the legal situation in arriving at
the conclusion that the process of cutting betel nuts into small pieces and
addition of essential/non-essential oils, menthol, sweetening agent etc. did
not result in a new and distinct product having a different character and use.

3\. Learned SDR has acknowledged the apex court's decision.

4\. In view of the ruling of the apex court, we hold that the 'scented supari'
cleared by the assessee during the period of dispute was not excisable, there
having been no 'manufacture' in the activity performed by M/s. ARR
Enterprises. In the result, the impugned order is set aside and this appeal is
allowed.

(Dictated and pronounced in open court)

