

Delhi High Court

Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. vs Mitsui Marubeni Corporation on 16 September,
2005

Equivalent citations: 2005 (3) ARBLR 234 Delhi, 124 (2005) DLT 337, 2005 (84)
DRJ 377

Author: O Dwivedi

Bench: O Dwivedi

ORDER O.P. Dwivedi, J.

1\. The petitioner above named has filed Objections under Section 34 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 ( for short the 'Act') against order
dated 17.11.2004 passed by Arbitral Tribunal holding that the prohibition
contained in Section 69 of the Partnership Act is not applicable to the
proceedings before Abitral Tribunal. The petitioner herein is a company
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and the respondent herein is
an unincorporated joint venture between two Companies incorporated outside
India. In October 1996, the petitioner had invited bids for the construction
of the Delhi-Noida Bridge Project under an engineering, procurement and
construction contract (hereinafter referred to as EPC Contract). In response
thereto respondent submitted their bid which was accepted vide letter of
acceptance dated 24.12.1997. An agreement was signed between the petitioner
and the respondent on 19.1.1998 in Tokyo, Japan, for execution of the Delhi-
Noida Bridge Project. The said agreement also contains an arbitration clause.
On dispute having arisen between the parties the matter was referred to
Dispute Review Board in terms of sub-clause 67.1 of part II. The findings of
the Dispute Review Board were communicated to the parties vide the letter
dated 21.03.2001. Aggrieved by the finding of the Dispute Review Board, the
Respondent in terms of clause 67.1 of the Contract invoked the arbitration
clause vide their letters dated 3.4.2001, 14.5.2001 and 25.9.2001. The
petitioner and respondent appointed their respective arbitrators and two
arbitrators appointed the presiding Arbitrator. The respondent who was
claimant before the Arbitral Tribunal filed claims. The petitioner thereupon
filed an application for dismissal of claim, inter alia, on the ground that
the respondent/ claimant was an unregistered partnership and therefore it
cannot launch any proceedings to enforce a right arising out of the agreement
in view of section 69(3) of the Partnership Act. This application was opposed
by the respondent by filing a reply thereto. Their contention was that Section
69(3) of the Partnership Act does not apply to the arbitration proceedings.
After considering submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties,
learned arbitral tribunal passed the impugned order dated 17.11.2004 holding
that the prohibition contained in Section 69 of the Partnership Act is not
applicable to the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. Feeling aggrieved,
the petitioner has filed Objections under Section 34 of the Act treating it to
be an interim award. The respondent has taken a preliminary objection as to
the maintainability of these objections under Section 34 of the Act. According
to the respondent the impugned order is a ruling by the Arbitral Tribunal on
its own jurisdiction as contemplated under section 16(2) of the Act and
therefore the only remedy available to the petitioner is to approach the Court
under Section 34 after the final award has been passed in accordance with
Section 16(6) of the Act. Petitioner's contention that section 69(3) of the
Partnership Act is applicable to the proceedings before to the Arbitral
Tribunal is also vehemently contested by the respondent. This petition raises
two important questions of law:-

(a) Whether the bar contained in Section 69(3) of the Partnership Act is
applicable to the proceedings before the Arbitral Tribunal?

(b) Whether the impugned order decides any jurisdictional plea referred to in
Section 16(2) or 16(3) of the Act in which case the objections will not be
maintainable at this stage ?

2\. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.

3\. Section 69 of the Partnership Act reads as under:-

69\. Effect of non-registration- (1) No suit to enforce a right arising from a
contract or conferred by this Act shall be instituted in any court by or on
behalf of any person suing as a partner in a firm against the firm or any
person alleged to be or to have been a partner in the firm unless the firm is
registered and the person suing is or has been shown in the Register of Firms
as a partner in the firm.

(2) No suit to enforce a right arising from a contract shall be instituted in
any court by or on behalf of a firm against any third party unless the firm is
registered and the person suing are or have been shown in the Register of
Firms as partners in the firm.

(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) and (2) shall apply also to a claim of
set-off or other proceeding to enforce a right arising from a contract, but
shall not effect.-

(a) the enforcement of any right to sue for the dissolution of a firm or for
accounts of a dissolved firm, or any right or power to realize the property of
a dissolved firm, or

(b) the powers of an official assignee, receiver or court under the Presidency
Town Insolvency Act 1909 (3 of 1909) or the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (5
of 1920) to realize the property of an insolvent partner.

(4) This section shall not apply:-

(a) to firms or to partners in firms which have no place of business in {the
territories to which this Act extends}, or whose places of business in {the
said territories}, are situated in areas to which, by notification under
{section 56} this Chapter does not apply, or

(b) to any suit or claim of set-off not exceeding one hundred rupees in value
which, in the Presidency-towns, is not a kind specified in section 19 of the
Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882 (5 of 1882), or, outside the
Presidency-towns, is not a kind specified in the Second Schedule to the
Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (9 of 1887), or to any proceeding in
execution or other proceeding incidental to or arising from any such suit or
claim.

4\. Learned counsel for the petitioner referred to a decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Jagdish Chandra Gupta v. Kajaria Traders (I) Ltd. . In
that case the Supreme Court was considering the question of applicability of
bar contained in Section 69 of the Partnership Act to an application under
Section 8 of the Arbitration Act 1940 filed by one of the partners of an un-
registered firm against other partner. The partnership agreement contained an
arbitration clause but since it was not registered, the maintainability of
application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act 1940 was challenged on the
basis of bar created by section 69(3) of the Partnership Act. The High Court
of Bombay by majority took the view that application under Section 8 of the
Arbitration Act 1940 was maintainable. In appeal Supreme Court analyzed
section 69 of the Partnership Act in depth and detail and held in para 9 as
under:-

(9) In our judgment, the words ' other proceeding' in sub-s. (3) must receive
their full meaning untrammeled by the words ' a claim of set-off'. The latter
words neither intend nor can be construed to cut down the generality of the
words 'other proceeding'. The sub-section provides for the application of the
provisions of sub-secs (1) and (2) to claims of set-off and also to other
proceedings of any kind which can properly be said to be for enforcement of
any right arising from contract except those expressly mentioned as exceptions
in sub-section (3) and sub-section (4).

5\. It was held by the Supreme Court that since right to seek arbitration
arises out of the Partnership agreement which was unregistered and application
under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act 1940 is a proceeding to enforce a right
arising out of the contract, it was not maintainable due to bar contained in
section 69(3) of the Partnership Act. According to Mr. Valmiki Mehta, Sr.
Advocate for the petitioner, the observation made by the Supreme Court in para
9 of the judgment also applies to arbitration proceedings and therefore a
claim lodged by the unregistered firm will be hit by section 69 of the
Partnership Act. The judgment in the case of Jagdish Chandra Gupta ( supra)
does not specifically lay down that the bar under section 69 of the
Partnership Act will apply to the proceedings before Arbitrator also. In order
to clarify the position in this regard, learned counsel for the petitioner has
also cited a decision in the case of U.P. State Sugar Corporation Limited v.
Jain Consturction Co. and Anr. In that case facts were that the parties
thereto had entered into an agreement on 11.4.1988 as regards certain civil
works in a unit belonging to the appellant therein. Disputes and differences
having arisen between the parties, the respondent therein filed an application
under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act 1940 in the Court of the Civil Judge,
Dehradun for appointment of an arbitrator in terms of clause 34 of the
Contract. The learned Civil Judge, Dehradun rejected the said petition on the
ground that the same was not maintainable in view of Section 69 of the
Partnership Act, as the plaintiff firm was not a registered one. The said
finding was arrived at despite the fact that the respondent therein had filed
an application for amendment of the said petition. According to the
respondent, the plea regarding the registration of the firm was left out
inadvertently. The Respondent appealed to High Court of Uttaranchal which
disposed of the appeal by observing that since Arbitration and Conciliation
Act 1996 has come into force, it will be open to the parties to approach the
Chief Justice or his nominated Judges. In the appeal Supreme Court set aside
the order of the High Court and remanded the case back to the High Court for
fresh decision because in the event the High Court finds that the Civil Judge
was wrong in rejecting the application for amendment of the plaint and in fact
the respondent firm was registered under the Partnership Act, the question of
throwing out the suit on that ground would not arise, but the firm must be
registered at the time of institution of the suit and not later on . Learned
counsel for the petitioner has laid great emphasis on the observation of the
Supreme Court in para 7 to the effect that " It is true that the arbitral
proceedings would not be maintainable at the instance of an unregistered firm
having regard to the mandatory provision contained in section 69 of the Indian
Partnership Act 1932". According to learned counsel for the petitioner this
observation covers proceedings before the arbitrator also and therefore above
observation of the apex court must be construed to lay down that Section 69 of
the Indian Partnership Act will be applicable to the proceeding before the
arbitrator also. In my view, such an inference cannot be drawn. Reading the
judgment as a whole would indicate that while making those observations, the
Supreme court was conscious of the fact that respondent had filed an
application under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act 1940 on 1.5.91 and thus
arbitral proceedings had been set in motion. There is clear observation to
this effect in para 9. This means that while making the observations referred
to in para 7 of the judgment, Supreme Court treated Section 20 petition as
setting in motion of arbitral proceedings and it is in this context that the
observation made in para 7 must be read and understood. This judgment is not
an authority for the proposition that Section 69 of the Partnership Act will
apply to the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. Section 20 petition was
a proceeding before the Court and therefore it was not maintainable at the
instance of unregistered firm in view of law laid down by the Supreme Court in
the case of Jagdish Chandra Gupta ( supra). In the case of Firm Ashok Traders
v. Gurumukh Das Saluja\- while considering the question of applicability of
section 69(3) of the Partnership Act to an application under Section 9 of the
Act Supreme Court has held that section 9 petition is neither a suit nor a
proceeding for enforcement of right arising out of the contract. It is a
petition seeking relief available to the party to the agreement under the
Arbitration Act. Therefore, Section 69 will have no application to Section 9
petition. Reference was also made to the decision in the case of Patel
Roadways Ltd. v. Birla Yamaha Ltd.- . in support of contention of learned
counsel for the petitioner that the term "suit" is a generic term taking
within its sweep all proceedings initiated by a party for realization of a
right vested in him under law. These observations have been made by the Court
while considering the question of applicability of the statutory provisions of
Carriers Act (Section 9) to a proceeding before the consumer forum. It was
held that words used in the Carriers Act would cover the proceedings before
the forum. None of these authorities lay down specifically that provisions of
Section 69(3) of Partnership Act will or will not apply to arbitration
proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. It is only in the case of Kamal
Pushp Enterprises v. D.R. Construction Co. - , that the Supreme Court has
clearly stated in para 9 that the prohibition contained in Section 69 is in
respect of instituting a proceeding to enforce a right arising from a contract
in any court by an unregistered firm, and it had no application to the
proceedings before an arbitrator. In that case the facts were that parties
referred disputes to the arbitrator. Appellant filed its claim and the
respondent opposed the same. The arbitrator passed an award in favor of the
respondent and suo motu filed the award before the trial Court. When the Court
issued notice to both the parties, appellant filed various Objections one of
which was based upon the applicability of Section 69 of the Partnership Act.
According to the appellant respondent was unregistered firm, therefore, it
could not file any claim before the arbitrator because such a claim was barred
under section 69 of the Partnership Act. The Supreme Court in para 9 observed
as under:-

"The prohibition contained in Section 69 is in respect of instituting a
proceeding to enforce a right arising from a contract in any court by an
unregistered firm, and it had no application to the proceedings before an
arbitrator and that too when the reference to the arbitrator was at the
instance of the appellant itself. If the said bar engrafted in Section 69 is
absolute in its terms and is destructive of any and every right arising under
the contract itself and not confined merely to enforcement of a right arising
from a contract by an unregistered firm by instituting a suit or other
proceedings in court only, it would become a jurisdictional issue in respect
of the arbitrator's power, authority and competency itself, undermining
thereby the legal efficacy of the very award, and consequently furnish a
ground by itself to challenge the award when it is sought to be made a rule of
Court. The case before us cannot be said to be one such and the learned
counsel for the appellant though was fully conscious of this fact , yet tried
to assert that it is open to the appellant to take up the objection based upon
Section 69 of the Partnership Act, at any stage - even during the post-award
proceedings to enforce the award passed. The award in this case cannot either
rightly or legitimately be said to be vitiated on account of the prohibition
contained in Section 69 of the Partnership Act, 1932 since the same has no
application to proceedings before an arbitrator. At the stage of enforcement
of the award by passing a decree in terms thereof what is enforced is the
award itself which crystallizes the rights of parties under the Indian
contract Act and the general law to be paid for the work executed and not any
right arising only from the objectionable contract. It is useful in this
connection to refer to the decision of this Court in Satish Kumar v. Surinder
Kumar wherein it has been stated in unmistakable terms that an award is not a
mere waste paper but does create rights and has some legal effect besides
being final and binding on the parties. It has also been held that the award
is, in fact, a final adjudication of a court of the parties' own choice and
until impeached upon sufficient grounds in an appropriate proceedings, an
award which is on the face of it regular, is conclusive upon the merits of the
controversy submitted for arbitration. Consequently, the post-award
proceedings cannot be considered by any means to be a suit or other
proceedings to enforce any rights arising under a contract. All the more so
when, as in this case, at all stages the respondent was only on the defense
and has not itself instituted any proceedings to enforce any rights of the
nature prohibited under Section 69 of the Partnership Act, before any court as
such. We see no infirmity or error whatsoever in the decision of the courts
below to call for our interference in this appeal. The appeal fails and shall
stand dismissed."

6\. The Supreme Court observed that at the stage of the enforcement of the
award by passing a decree in terms thereof what is enforced is the award
itself which crystallises the rights of parties under the Contract and the
general law to be paid for the work executed and not any right arising only
from the objectionable contract at the post Award stage. In the opening
sentence of para 9 Supreme Court has categorically declared that 'the
prohibition contained in Section 69 is in respect of instituting a proceeding
to enforce a right arising from a contract in any court by an unregistered
firm, and it had no application to the proceedings before an arbitrator and
that too when the reference to the arbitrator was at the instance of the
appellant itself." In the middle of paragraph the Supreme Court again observed
that " it had no application to the proceedings before an arbitrator' . In
view of this categorical pronouncement of the Supreme court, there is no room
for acceptance of the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner
that it was only an obliter. Supreme Court was directly concerned with the
applicability of Section 69 of the Partnership Act to the arbitration
proceedings . Moreover even an obliter dictum of Supreme Court has to be
followed (Sarwan Singh Lamba and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. - While
holding that section 69 of the Partnership Act has no application to the
proceedings before the Arbitrator, the Supreme Court has taken into
consideration its decision in the case of Jagdish Chandra Gupta ( supra) . In
view of the observations made by the Supreme Court in para 9 of the judgment
in Kamal Pushp Enterprises (supra) , the contention of the learned counsel for
the petitioner to the contrary cannot prevail. The finding of the arbitral
tribunal on the point is unexceptionable.

7\. Now coming to question regarding maintainability of this petition under
section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996, learned counsel for the
respondent contended that in the impugned order learned Arbitral Tribunal
itself has treated it as a question of jurisdiction. In the application the
petitioner has also described the question of applicability of Section 69 of
the Partnership Act as jurisdictional issue and therefore provisions of
Section 16(6) of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996 are attracted.

8\. Having considered the respective submissions of learned counsel for the
parties, I am of the view that the question regarding applicability of Section
69 of the Partnership Act cannot be treated as a jurisdictional issue.
Petitioner had never challenged the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator. Rather
they have submitted to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal. Lack of
jurisdiction is a deficiency/ disability statutory, pecuniary or territorial
attached to the adjudicating authority whereas bar of limitation or other
statutory bars to entertain a particular claim is a deficiency/ infirmity
attached to the claim itself. Just as in a civil suit the court does not cease
to have jurisdiction because the suit is barred by limitation or by other
provisions of law so also in arbitration proceedings any such legal bar to the
maintainability of the claim would not effect the jurisdiction of the Arbitral
Tribunal. Learned counsel for the respondent has referred to the following
observations made by the Supreme Court in para 9 in the case of Kamal Pushp
Enterprises (supra):-

"If the said bar engrafted in Section 69 is absolute in its terms and is
destructive of any and every right arising under the contract itself and not
confined merely to enforcement of a right arising from a contract by an
unregistered firm by instituting a suit or other proceedings in court only, it
would become a jurisdictional issue in respect of the arbitrator's power,
authority and competency itself, undermining thereby the legal efficacy of the
very award, and consequently furnish a ground by itself to challenge the award
when it is sought to be made a rule of the Court."

9\. These observations of the apex Court cannot be read to mean that question
regarding applicability of section 69 of the Partnership Act is a
jurisdictional issue. The bar under Section 69 is not absolute because it does
not destroy every right arising under the contract. Sub-section 3(a) and sub-
section (4) of Section 69 of the Partnership Act provide exceptions to the
rule of applicability to Section 69 of the Partnership Act which creates a bar
only to the institution of a suit or any other proceedings in the Court by an
unregistered firm. In the very next sentence the Supreme Court observed , "
case before us cannot be said to be one such". In the case of National Thermal
Power Corporation Ltd. (NTPC) v. Siemens Atiengesellschaft (SAG)- 2005 VI AD
(Delhi) 256 it was held that a decision by the Arbitrator that counter claim
filed by the opposite side stood settled and, therefore, not arbitrable, does
not amount to a jurisdictional plea within the meaning of Section 16(2) ,
16(3) of the Act and an appeal against such an order will not be maintainable
under Section 37 of the Act.

10\. In the case of State of Karnataka and Ors. v. B. Krishna Bhat and Ors.
2001 (2) Kar. L.J.1 (FB) Page 1, it was held that inherent lack of
jurisdiction cannot be cured, a mere lack of jurisdiction can be cured by
consent or waiver. In this very judgment a reference has been made to a
decision in the case of Hira Lal Patni v. Kali Nath\- wherein the Supreme
court has observed that " it is well settled that the objection as to local
jurisdiction of a Court does not stand on the same footing as an objection to
the competence of a Court to try a case. Competence of a Court to try a case
goes to the very root of the jurisdiction and where it is lacking, it is a
case of inherent lack of jurisdiction. The Court further observed that "
pecuniary jurisdiction and territorial jurisdiction are not regarded as
falling under inherent jurisdiction of civil Courts. Objections on the ground
of lack of these jurisdictions are technical in nature and unless raised at
the earliest opportunity, will not be entertained to non-suit a plaintiff. On
the other hand, objection on the ground of lack of inherent jurisdiction can
be raised at any time, and cannot be waived". In the present case arbitral
tribunal has been appointed in accordance with the arbitration clause
contained in the agreement dated 19.1.98 signed between the parties. It is
also not the case of either party that in deciding the question regarding
applicability of section 69 of the Partnership Act to arbitration proceeding
the arbitral tribunal has exceeded the scope of its authority. The impugned
order, therefore, cannot be said to be one under Section 16(2) or 16(3) of the
Act. In the case of Union of India and Anr. v. East Coast Boat Builders &
Engineers Ltd\- , this Court ( A.K. Srivastava J.) has held that an order
whereby the arbitrator holds that it has jurisdiction to enter upon reference
to decide the disputes between the parties is not appealable in view of
section 37 nor it is an interim award. Para 18 of the judgment reads as under:
-

18 .If an order on the point of jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal was to
be an interim award under the Act, Section 37 of the Act would not have
provided for appeal against an order whereby the arbitral tribunal holds that
it has no jurisdiction. While enacting Section 16 of the Act, the legislature
was conscious that the arbitral tribunal could hold in its favor or against
itself on the point of jurisdiction. If the legislature had to treat an order
under Section 16 to be an interim award, it would not have provided for an
appeal under Section 37 where the arbitral tribunal allows the plea that the
arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction and the legislature would have
left challenge to such order as well under Section 34 of the Act. It cannot be
accepted that the order under Section 16 would change its nature upon two
different contingencies, that is to say, where the order rejects the plea of
no jurisdiction it becomes an interim award and where the arbitral tribunal
allows the plea of no jurisdiction it is not an interim award and only
appealable. Therefore, it can easily be interpreted that in either case it is
only an interim order and not an interim award. Analogy of British law on the
subject cannot be pressed into service because under the British Arbitration
Act such order has been specifically termed as award whereas in the Indian
Arbitration Act such order has not been so specifically termed.

11\. This decision is of no help to the respondents because by the impugned
order the learned arbitrator has decided a contentious issue between the
parties regarding the maintainability of the claim. This issue is not
concerned with the competence of the arbitral tribunal, therefore, the
impugned order cannot be placed in the category of orders passed under section
16(2) and 16(3) of the Act. It negates the plea of a legal infirmity
attributed to the claim itself. It is, therefore, not an interim order but an
interim award which can be challenged under Section 34 of the Act.

12\. In view of my discussion above, I hold that the impugned order is in the
nature of interim award which can be challenged under section 34 of the Act.
Therefore, this petition is maintainable. On merits, the view taken by learned
arbitral tribunal that Section 69 of Partnership Act has no application to the
proceedings before the arbitral tribunal is legally sound and calls for no
interference.

13\. In the result this petition fails and is hereby dismissed.

