

Patna High Court - Orders

Ex-Armymen'S Protection Servic vs The Union Of India & Ors on 19 March, 2009

    
    
           IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA
                        CWJC No.758 of 2009
      EX-ARMYMEN'S PROTECTION SERVICES PVT. LTD. THROUGH ITS
                       MANAGING DIRECTOR
                              Versus
                     THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS
                             -----------
    

06\. 19.03.2009 A counter-affidavit has been filed on behalf of the
respondents.

The petitioner had got a five years security clearance from Government of
India and on basis of the said security clearance he was permitted to act as
ground handling agent at various airports in the country. This clearance was
suddenly without prior notice or without disclosing any reason whatsoever, one
fine morning, withdrawn. The result is that the petitioner's entire business
of running ground handling agency came to an absolute naught. Petitioner
challenged this before this Court. The only thing that could be said was that
the security clearance was withdrawn in national interest.

In view of national security and national interest several times the case was
adjourned without interim order to enable Central Government to respond and
file a counter- affidavit but the same was not done. This Court had to pass
-2- interim order. Even after interim order was passed, the various
authorities under the Central Government chose to sit over the orders of the
High Court as is noticed in previous orders as if they were appellate
authority over the High Court. Again the matter was adjourned for counter-
affidavit. Such was the urgency on the part of the Central Government to shut
the petitioner from conducting his business.

Today a counter-affidavit has been filed in which it is stated that the
reasons can not be disclosed because they are super secret. In other words,
what is submitted on the bogey of national security is that fundamental rights
of citizens and rights contained in Part III of the Constitution can be
suspended ad infinitum by a major executive fiat. This is preposterous in the
counter-affidavit.

It is further stated that the report on basis of which action has been taken
would be produced before this Court in a sealed envelope for perusal of the
Court. The so-called sealed envelope was produced. It contains one page letter
which mentions nothing except that there is an adverse IB report. I wonder
what is so secret about this except that it  -3- was only an attempt to
mislead and browbeat the Court.

Learned Counsel for the Union of India has produced a recent Division Bench
Judgment of Bombay High Court, Writ Petition No. 420 of 2009 dated 12 th
March, 2009 in a controversy of similar nature. A copy of the judgment the
deponent of the counter-affidavit must have given to the counsel. The judgment
itself clearly noticed that the department was obligated by the court to
produce entire file but in practice again they chose to withhold the file and
were producing something in a sealed envelope a super secret document which
stated above is absolutely otherwise.

In such a situation, I direct that the entire original file in relation to the
petitioner be produced for perusal of the court under sealed cover on the next
date i.e. on 25th March, 2009 at 10.30A.M. under the same heading.

    
    
    Vikash/-                                (Navaniti Prasad Singh, J.)
     

