

Supreme Court of India

Matadin And Ors. vs State Of U.P. on 6 March, 1979

Equivalent citations: 1979 CriLJ 1027, 1980 Supp (1) SCC 157

Author: S M Ali

Bench: A Koshal, S M Ali

JUDGMENT S. Murtaza Fazal Ali, J.

1\. In this appeal under Section 2(a) of the Supreme Court (Enlargement of
Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction) Act, the appellants have been convicted under
Section 202 read with Section 149 and sentenced to imprisonment for life. They
have also been convicted under Section 148 I.P.C. and sentenced to one year's
R.I. They are further convicted under Section 324 read with Section 149 for
which they have been sentenced to two years' R.I. The sentences have been
directed to run concurrently. All the appellants were acquitted by the learned
Sessions Judge but the High Court on appeal by the State convicted them of the
various charges mentioned above.

2\. We have gone through the judgment of the High Court and that of the
Sessions Judge. We find ourselves in complete agreement with the judgment of
the High Court. It appears that all the four eye-witnesses P.Ws. 1, 2, 5 and
14 have given consistent and cogent evidence which has been accepted by the
High Court after discussing their evidence. The High Court observed as
follows:

Nothing was shown to us in the statements of the eye-witnesses by the learned
Counsel for the respondents on account of which their statements may be
rejected. We have not come across any material contradiction on which their
statements could be rejected. On the other hand we find that the statements of
these witnesses are corroborated by facts and circumstances. In our opinion
these witnesses are natural and probable witnesses and their statements do not
suffer from any inherent defects or improbability. The occurrence took place
in broad daylight and three of the eye-witnesses were injured witnesses. Their
presence at the spot cannot be doubted. There was sufficient light and in this
light these witnesses could see the occurrence.

3\. The learned Sessions Judge had rejected the evidence of the eye-witnesses
on wrong, unconvincing and unsound reasons. The Sessions Judge appears to have
been swayed by some insignificant omissions made by some of the witnesses in
their statement before the Police and on the basis of these omissions dubbed
the witnesses as liars. The Sessions Judge did not realise that the statements
given by the witnesses before the Police are meant to be brief statements and
could not take the place of evidence in the Court. Where the omissions are
vital, they merit consideration, but mere small omissions will not justify a
finding by a court that the witnesses concerned are self-contained (self-
condemned?) liars. We have carefully perused the judgment of the Sessions
Judge and we are unable to agree that the reasons that he has given for
disbelieving the witnesses are good or sound reasons. The High Court was,
therefore, fully justified in reversing the judgment passed by the trial
Court. We are satisfied that this is a case where the judgment of the
Sessions' Judge was manifestly wrong and perverse, and was rightly set aside
by the High Court. It was urged by Mr. Mehta that as other appellants
excepting Matadin and Dulare do not appear to have assaulted the deceased, so
they should be acquitted of the charge under Section 149. We, however, find
that all the appellants were members of the unlawful assembly. Their names
find place in the F.I.R. For these reasons, we are unable to find any ground
to distinguish the case of those appellants from that of Matadin and Dulare.
The argument of the learned Counsel is overruled. The result is that the
appeal fails and accordingly dismissed. The appellants who are on bail, will
now surrender to serve out the remaining portion of their sentence.

