

Madras High Court

Rekha vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 16 June, 2015

    
    
           
    
      
    
       
    
     
     
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    DATED:  16.06.2015
    C O R A M
    
    THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S.TAMILVANAN
    and
    THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C.T.SELVAM
    
    H.C.P.No.100 of 2015
    
    Rekha								...		Petitioner 
    Vs
    
    1.  The State of Tamil Nadu
         rep.by the Secretary to Government
         Prohibition and Excise Department
         Secretariat
         Fort St George
         Chennai 600 009.
    
    2.  The Commissioner of Police/
         Egmore,
         Chennai-8						...		Respondents
    
    	Habeas Corpus Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India praying for the issuance of a writ of Habeas Corpus to call for the records relating to the order of detention dated 19.11.2014, passed by the second respondent in BDFGISSV No.1905/2014 and quash the same and direct the respondents herein to produce the petitioner's husband namely Saravanan, S/o.Ramamurthy, male, aged about 25 years, 1/272, Mariyamman Kovil Street, Nathampedu, Thiruninravur, Thiruvallur District, who is presently under going detention in the Central Prison, Puzhal, under Section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Forest Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Sand Offenders, Slum Grabbers and Video Pirates Act, 1982 (Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1982) before this Court and set him at liberty forthwith.
    		For Petitioner	:	Mr.C.Prabakaran
     
    		For Respondents	:	Mr.M.Maharaja
    						Addl. Public Prosecutor
    
    
    O R D E R
    

(Order of the Court was made by S.Tamilvanan,J.) Challenge is made to the
order of detention passed by the second respondent vide No.1905/2014, dated
19.11.2014, whereby the detenu/the husband of the petitioner herein, by name,
Saravanan, Son of Ramamoorthy, male, aged about 25 years, was ordered to be
detained under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous
Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Forest Offenders, Goondas, Immoral
Traffic Offenders, Sand Offenders, Slum Grabbers and Video Pirates Act, 1982
(Tamil Nadu Act 14 of 1982) branding him as a "GOONDA".

2.Though many grounds have been raised in the petition, Mr.C.Prabakaran, the
learned counsel for the petitioner has assailed the impugned detention order
only on the ground of non-supply of copy of the bail applications in the
similar cases, referred to in the grounds of detention, for arriving at the
subjective satisfaction that there is likelihood of the detenu coming out on
bail, which has affected the constitutional right of making an effective and
purposeful representation to the authorities concerned, thereby vitiating the
detention.

3.Per contra, Mr.M.Maharaja, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor would
submit that the impugned detention order has been passed on cogent and
sufficient materials and there is no illegality or infirmity in the impugned
order of detention. However, he submitted that the copy of bail applications
in the similar cases, referred to in the grounds of detention was not supplied
to the detenu.

4.We have given our careful and anxious consideration to the rival submissions
put forward by the learned counsel on either side and thoroughly scanned
through the impugned detention order and the entire materials available on
record.

5\. It is seen from paragraph No.4 of the Grounds of Detention that in similar
case the accused were granted bail by the Judicial Magistrate No.II,
Poonamallee, Chennai, in Cr.M.P.No.8172/2012 in respect of Crime No.1677/2012
for the offence registered under sections 379 IPC on the file of T-6 Avadi
Police Station and by the Principal Sessions Judge, Thiruvallur, in
Cr.M.P.No.1175 of 2013 in respect of Crime No.256 of 2013 for the offence
registered under Sections 341, 294(b), 336, 427, 392, 397 and 506(ii) IPC on
the file of T-2 Ambattur Estate Police station. On a perusal of the Paper Book
furnished by the Prosecution, it is seen that it does not contain any of the
documents, viz., the bail applications, in respect of the similar cases. The
said bail applications filed in similar cases were the documents relied upon
by the Detaining Authority to come to a subjective satisfaction that the
detenu was likely to be released on bail. Admittedly, such documents have not
been supplied to the detenu, as it did not form part of the Paper Book
furnished by the Prosecution. Therefore, the non-supply of the copy of the
bail applications and other documents in similar cases to the detenu would
vitiate the impugned detention order.

6.The Honourable Supreme Court in M.Ahamed Kutty Vs. Union of India and
another (1990-2-SCC-1) has observed thus:-

7. Considering the facts in the instant case, the bail applications and the
bail order were vital materials for consideration. If those were not
considered the satisfaction of the detaining authority itself would have been
impaired and if those had been considered, they would be documents relied on
by the detaining authority though not specifically mentioned in the annexure
to the order of detention and those ought to have formed part of the documents
supplied to the detenu with the grounds of detention and without them the
grounds themselves could not be said to have been complete. We have,
therefore, no alternative but to hold that it amounted to denial of the
detenu's right to make an effective representation and that it resulted in
violation of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India rendering the
continued detention of the detenu illegal and entitling the detenu to be set
at liberty in this case. (Emphasis added).

7\. This Court in Jarinabegam Vs. State of Tamil Nadu by Secretary to
Government, Prohibition and Exercise Department, Chennai and another
(2007-1-MLJ-Crl-18) relying upon the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court
cited supra has held that non-supply of the copy of the bail application in
similar case to the detenu has the effect of vitiating the order or detention.

8\. As already analysed by us, in the facts and circumstances of the present
case, non-supply of the document, viz., bail applications, in similar cases to
the detenu has the effect of vitiating the impugned detention order. Further,
due to non-supply of such a vital document, the detenu has lost valuable right
to make an effective representation to the authorities concerned.

9\. In the light of the above said principles laid down by the Honourable
Supreme Court and for the reasons stated above, the impugned order of
detention is vitiated and the same is liable to be quashed.

10\. In the result, this Habeas Corpus Petition is allowed. The impugned
detention order is set aside. The detenu is directed to be released forthwith,
unless his presence is required in connection with any other case.

    
    
    [S.T.J.,]           [C.T.S.,J.]
    16.06.2015
    
    msk
    
    To 
    
    1.1.  The Secretary to Government
         Home, Prohibition, Excise Department
         Secretariat
         Fort St George
         Chennai 600 009.
    
    
    
    
    2.  The Commissioner of Police/
         Detaining Authority
         Tirupur City,   Tirupur.	
    
    3. The Superintendent,
        Central Prison,  Puzhal, 
        Chennai.	
     
    4.The Public Prosecutor,
       High Court, Chennai.  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    S.TAMILVANAN, J.
    AND
     C.T.SELVAM, J.
    
    msk
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    H.C.P.No.100 of 2015
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    16.06.2015

