

Bombay High Court

Faber-Castell ... vs Pikpen Private Limited on 30 April, 2003

Equivalent citations: 2003 (6) BomCR 65, 2003 (4) MhLj 264, 2003 (27) PTC 538
Bom, 2003 45 SCL 362 Bom

Author: S Bobde

Bench: S Bobde

JUDGMENT S.A. Bobde, J.

1\. This is a Plaintiffs Motion for an injunction restraining the defendants
from infringing the plaintiffs registered design of a marker pen or a
highlighter sold by the plaintiffs under the trade mark "TEXTLINER". The
plaintiffs also claim an injunction restraining the defendants from passing-
off their highlighter or marker pen under the trade mark "TEXTLINER" by use of
the impugned trade mark "TEXTLINER" and by adopting the almost identical
configuration, shape, design, colour scheme and get-up for their product.

2\. The plaintiffs are proprietors of registered design No. 174429 dated
1.8.1997. This registration is under the Designs Act, 1911. It was issued on
12.1.1998. The Certificate of Registration contains a pictorial representation
of the plaintiffs highlighter and states as follows:

"The novelty resides in the shape and configuration of the line marker in
particular in the cap portion C and the ornamental surface pattern P. as
illustrated."

There is an ornamental surface pattern on the plug at the bottom of the
highlighter. The plug is that part of the highlighter used for filing the
fluorescent ink. The registered design is dated 31.7.1997 and certified on
12.1.1998.

3\. The unique features of the plaintiffs produces are:

(i) A dark green body;

(ii) A unique cap of the same colour as the colour of the ink;

(iii) Gold lettering on the green body;

(iv) Trade mark "TEXTLINER".

The defendants have adopted body of an identical green colour, identical
colour cap with gold lettering on the green body, the trade mark "TEXTLINER"
as also identical text which is even arranged in the same manner as on the
plaintiffs' highlighter.

4\. The plaintiffs have commenced marketing their product. They claim that the
trade mark and design have become distinctive of their goods and the marks
have come to be exclusively associated with the plaintiffs because of the
unique shape and configuration, colour scheme and get-up. In India, the
plaintiffs claim annual sales, upwards of one crore per year. The sale figure
for 1998 to 2002 are at exh. 'F'. The defendants appear to have started
marketing their highlighter bearing an identical trade mark "TEXTLINER" in
October 2002. The defendants highlighter bears "KOKORPIK". It also contains
the word mark "TEXTLINER" and other words which are identical to the
plaintiffs highlighter. These similarities have given rise to this dispute.

5\. The first question that arises is whether the defendant is infringing
registered design No. 174429 of the plaintiffs in respect of the highlighter.
The design is registered for a term of ten years from 1.8.1997 under Section
11(1) read with Section 2(c) of the Designs Act, 1911. "Design" has been
defined by Section 2(5) of the Designs Act, 1911 to mean the features of
shape, configuration, pattern or ornament applied to any article and which in
the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye. The exact
definition reads as follows:-

"(5) "design" means only the features of shape, configuration, pattern or
ornament applied to any article by any industrial process or means, whether
manual, mechanical or chemical, separate or combined, which in the finished
article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye; but does not include any
mode or principle of construction or anything which is in substance a mere
mechanical device, and does not include any trade mark as defined in Clause
(v) of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act,
1958, or property mark as defined in Section 479 of the Indian Penal Code."

The defendants' highlighter is similar in style and configuration with that of
the plaintiffs. Both are flat in shape, not round. The cap is similar and also
the bottom portion of the highlighter consisting of plug is also similar.
Equally important, the body of the defendants' highlighter is similar to that
of the plaintiffs and identical in every respect. According to the plaintiffs,
the defendants have obviously imitated the plaintiffs' design and the cap of
the defendants' line makers is very close to that of the plaintiffs.

6\. It must be stated at the outset that judged solely by the eye, there is an
inescapable similarity in the designs. In fact, barring the slight curves at
two ends of the body, the design appears to be the same. However, several
questions have been raised by the defendants as to the entitlement of the
plaintiffs to the proprietorship of the design and those must be dealt with
first.

7\. The defendants challenge the plaintiffs ownership of the design. They
submit that the plaintiffs are not the registered proprietors of the design
since, according to the defendants, the proprietorship of the design vests in
A.W. Faber-Castell Gmbh & Co., and it has not been assigned to the plaintiffs
i.e. Faber-Castell Aktiengesellschaft i.e. the plaintiffs No. 1 and A.W.
Faber-Castell (India) Pvt. Ltd. i.e. the plaintiff No. 2. This contention is
mainly based on the document dated 23.12.1998 by which A.W. Faber-Castell
Unternehmensverwaltung Gmbh & Co. has purported to transfer its "various
rights of goods" in favour of A.W. Faber-Castell Gmbh & Co. On 20.12.2000 this
last company A.W. Faber-Castell Gmbh & Co. has been reorganised and Faber-
Castell Aktiengesellschaft i.e. the plaintiff No. 1 has come into existence.
But according to the plaintiffs, the assignment in favour of A.W. Faber-
Castell Aktiengesellschaft itself does not result in the assignment of the
design because what is assigned are trade marks, service marks, logos and
appearance of goods. In the submission of the learned counsel for the
defendants, the design has not been assigned and "the appearance of goods"
cannot be design. This submission does not seem to be correct. Design means
the features of shape, configuration, pattern, etc., which appeal and are
judged solely by the eye. Prima facie, in the context, therefore, "appearance
of goods" really means "design". It appears that the expression "design" has
not been used in the document submitted to this Court since the document is a
certified translation from the German language. I, therefore, find from the
document dated 23.12.1998 that the design was originally owned by A.W. Faber-
Castell Unternehmensverwalrung Gmbh & Co., and was assigned along with the
entire industrial proprietary rights of that company to A.W. Faber-Castell
Gmbh & Co. On 20.12.2000 as a result of the reorganisation of A.W. Faber-
Castell Gmbh & Co., the plaintiff No. 1 Faber-Castell Aktiengesellschaft came
into being. Further, in January 2003 the plaintiffs applied for recording
their names as subsequent proprietors of the suit design and in February 2003,
A.W. Faber-Castell Unternehmensaverwalgung Gmbh & Co. executed a deed of
reconfirmation, transfer and assignment of registered design to the plaintiff
No. 1. Thus the plaintiff have filed a deed of reconfirmation with the
Controller for recording themselves as subsequent proprietor and on 19.4.2000,
the Controller of Design recorded the plaintiff No. 1 as subsequent proprietor
of the registered design. This last document is at exh. 'E' to the affidavit
of Mr. Govardhan Gajjal dated 28.4.2003. I, therefore, find that the
plaintiffs are the owners and have a title to the said design.

8\. The next contention on behalf of the defendants is that the design at exh.
'C' to the plaint is not a design as defined under the Designs Act, 2000.
According to the learned counsel for the defendants, "design" has been defined
by Section 2(d) to mean only the features of shape, configuration, pattern,
ornament or composition of lines or colours applied to any article. "Article"
has been defined by Section 2(a) to mean any article of manufacture and
includes any part of an article capable of being made and sold separately. The
submission is that the design is registered only in respect of cap and plug
and these are parts of an articles which are not capable of being made and
sold separately. Therefore, the design does not quality as design at all. This
submission deserves to be completely rejected. It is clear from the
certificate at exh. 'C' that the design is in respect of the shape and
configuration of the line maker i.e. the whole of it and not only the cap and
the plug. It is only in particular that the cap portion and the plug portion
are identified as novel.

9\. The next contention on behalf of the defendants is that the design was
previously published and, therefore, it is liable to be cancelled under
Section 19 of the Designs Act, 2000. Such a ground for cancellation is
available as a ground of defence by virtue of Section 22(3) of the Designs
Act, 2000 and, therefore, the plaintiffs are not entitled to an injunction
based on such a design which has been published in a country outside India
i.e. the U.S.A. as well as in India. Now it must be noted that under the
Designs Act, 1911, only a design not previously registered in India could be
registered vide Section 43. Likewise, a petition for cancellation of the
registration of the design could be presented on the ground that the design
had been published in India prior to the date of registration vide Section
51A. The contention of the leaned counsel for the defendants is that an
injunction should be refused on the ground that the design has been published
not only in India prior to its registration but also in the U.S.A. which is
any other country as contemplated by Section 19(1)(b) of the Designs Act,
2000. This contention is strongly resisted by the plaintiffs because,
according to the plaintiffs, the registration of the design in question cannot
be cancelled on the ground that it has been published in any other country
prior to the date of the registration simply because this ground for
registration has been introduced, for the first time, by the Designs Act,
2000. The design in question having been registered under the Designs Act,
1911, its cancellation is governed entirely by the provisions of that Act.
Since that Act made provision for cancellation of the design only on the
ground that it had been published in India alone prior to the date of
registration, the vulnerability of the design for the purpose of cancellation
can be considered only with reference to the Designs Act, 1911 and not the
Designs Act, 2000. In sort, whether the registration of the design in question
should be considered as liable for cancellation must be decided only on the
basis whether the design had been published in India prior to its registration
and not whether it was published outside India; the latter being the ground
for cancellation provided only by the new Act, i.e., Designs Act, 2000.

The question is whether the cancellation of the design in question is governed
by the Designs Act, 2000 or the Designs Act, 1911. The Designs Act, 2000 i.e.
Act No. 16 of 2000 was enacted on 25.5.2000 as "an Act to consolidate and
amend the law relating to protection of designs". This enactment repeals the
earlier Act i.e. the Designs Act, 1911. Section 48 of the new Act reads as
follows:-

"48. Repeal and savings.--The Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911) is hereby
repealed.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in the General Clauses Act,
1897 (10 of 1897) with respect to repeals, any notification, rule, order,
requirement, registration, certificate, notice design, determination,
direction, approval, authorisation, consent, application, request or thing
made, issued, given or done under the Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), shall, in
force at the commencement of this Act, continue to be in force and have effect
as if made, issued, given or done under the corresponding provisions of this
Act.

(3) The provisions of this Act shall apply to all applications for
registration of designs pending at the commencement of this Act and to any
proceedings consequent thereon and to any registration granted in pursuance
thereof.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any proceeding pending in
any court at the commencement of this Act may be continued in that court as if
this Act has not been passed."

The consequence is clearly this, that the old Act of 1911 is repealed. As
regards registration, etc., done under the old Act, Sub-section (2) clearly
lays down that it shall continue to be in force and have effect as if done
under the corresponding provisions of the new Act. This means that
registration of the design must continue in force and have effect as a thing
done under Section 4 of the Act. It is, therefore, clear that the intention of
Parliament is that the all things done under the old Act can only be continued
to be in force and have effect as if made under the corresponding provision of
the new Act. The only exception made in Section 48 is provided in Sub-section
(4) which provides that any proceeding pending in any Court at the
commencement of the new Act may be continued in that Court as if the new Act
had not been passed. It is, therefore, clear that Parliament intended that all
things done under the old Act, after the enactment of the new Act be governed
only by the new Act, the old Act being completely repealed.

In particular, as regards the question of registration and its cancellation,
the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the new Act throws light on the
intention of Parliament to govern these matters according to the new Act of
2000. The relevant part reads as follows:-

"Since the enactment of the Designs Act, 1911 considerable progress has been
made in the field of science and technology. The legal system for the
protection of industrial designs requires to be made more efficient in order
to ensure effective protection to registered designs. It is also required to
promote design activity in order to promote the design element in an article
of production. The proposed Designs Bill is essentially aimed to balance these
interests. It is also intended to ensure that the law does not unnecessarily
extend protection beyond what is necessary to create the required incentive
for design activity while removing impediments to the free use of available
designs."

To achieve the above purposes, the Bill incorporates inter alia, the
following:-

(a) .......................................

(b) it amplifies the scope of "prior publication";

..............................................

(l) it introduces additional grounds in cancellation proceedings and makes
provision for initiating the cancellation proceedings before the Controller in
place of High Court;

.....

(n) it contains provisions for grounds of cancellation to be taken as defence
in the infringement proceedings to be initiated in any court not below the
court of the District Judge;

.............................................................

2\. In view of the extensive amendments necessitated in the Designs Act, 1911
it has been thought fit to repeal and re-enact the said Act incorporating the
necessary changes."

The relevant portions of the Notes on Clauses published in the Gazette of the
India Extraordinary reads as follows:-

"Clause 4.--This clause is a new one and it relates to prohibition of
registration of certain designs. This clause prohibits designs which lacks
novelty or originality. It also prohibits registration of designs which had
been disclosed to the public anywhere in India or in any other country by
publication in tangible form or in any other way prior to the filing date or
which is not significantly distinguishable from non designs or combination of
non-designs or comprises or contain scandalous or obscene matter.

Clause 5.--This clause corresponds to Section 43 of the existing Act and deals
with application of registration of designs. The existing clause has been
modified in order to register any design which is new or original or not
previously published in India or in any other country and which is not
contrary to public order and morality. This clause also seeks to provide for
the application for registration of every design to be referred to an examiner
appointed under Clause 3 of the proposed legislation for ascertaining the
registrability of the design. In view of introduction of classification of
articles based on International System of classification, the designs need not
be registered more in than one class unlike under the existing Act. This
clause also seeks to provide that the appeals may be preferred to the High
Court instead of the Central Government as specified under the existing Act.

.............................................................

Clause 19.--This clause corresponds to Section 51A of the existing At and it
deals with cancellation of registration of designs. In addition to the grounds
of cancellation provided in the existing provisions, the following grounds
have been added, namely:-

(i) that the design is not registrable under the proposed legislation;

(ii) that it is not a design as defined in Clause (b) of Clause 2 of the
proposed legislation, the provision contained in Sub-clause (b) of Sub-section
(1) of Section 51A of the existing Act is proposed to be amplified in order to
consider the prior publication on global basis instead of regional basis, i.e.
in India.

The said additional grounds will help interested person to get cancelled the
registered design in better comprehensive manner. All grounds of cancellation
can be taken up before the Controller irrespective of any particular time
limit in place of restricted ground and specified time limit under the
existing Act. Such amplification will avoid expenses and time involved in High
Court as mandatory under the existing Act."

It is obvious, that it was the avowed intent of Parliament to provide for new
ground for cancellation of registration so as to include prior publication in
any other country and also to bring about changes in the conditions for
registration of designs vide Clause 5. It appears that it is the intention of
Parliament to specifically consider the question of prior publication "on
global basis instead of regional basis i.e. in India" vide Clause 19.

10\. In D.C. Bhatia v. Union of India, , while dealing with the question of
removal of protection to tenants by a subsequent legislation, their Lordships
observed in para 52 as follows:

"..... By Amending Act the legislature has withdrawn the protection hitherto
enjoyed by the tenants who were paying Rs. 3500 or above as monthly rent. If
the tenants were sought to be evicted prior to the amendment of the Act, they
could have taken advantage of the provisions of the Act to resist such
eviction by the landlord. But this was nothing more than a right to take
advantage of the enactment. The tenant enjoyed statutory protection as long as
the statute remained in force and was applicable to him. If the statute ceases
to be operative, the tenant cannot claim to continue to have the old statutory
protection. It was observed by Tindal, C.J., in the case of Kay v. Goodwin (ER
p. 1405) "The effect of repealing a statute is to obliterate it as completely
from the records of the parliament as if it had never been passed; and, it
must be considered as a law that never existed, except for the purpose of
those actions which were commenced, prosecuted, and concluded whilst it was an
existing law."

53\. The provisions of a repealed statute cannot be relied upon after it has
been repealed. But, what has been acquired under the Repealed Act cannot be
disturbed. But, if any new or further step is needed to be taken under the
Act, that cannot be taken even after the Act is repealed."

This view was reiterated by their Lordships in Parripati Chandrasekharrao &
Sons v. Alapati Jalaiah . It is, therefore, clear that it is the intention of
Parliament that all matters pertaining to registration and its cancellations
are intended to be governed by the new Act i.e. the Designs Act, 2000 and not
the old Act i.e. the Designs Act, 1911.

11\. The leaned counsel for the plaintiffs relied on the decision of the
Supreme Court in Thyssen Stahlunion GmbH v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. in
support of the proposition that the question of cancellation of registration
must be continued to be governed by the old Act. That case arose out of
Section 85 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which expressly saves arbitral
proceedings which have already commenced under the old Act. It is in the light
of that express provision that the award made pursuant to the arbitration
proceedings commenced under the 1940 Act has to be enforced under the old Act
and not under the new Act. In my view, the decision in Thyssen's case is not
of relevance in the present case. it is important to note that where
Parliament intended to govern the revocation or cancellation of patents
granted under the Indian Patent and Designs Act, 1911, in accordance with the
law under which they were granted, it made specific provision that in relation
to patents granted under the Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911, the old
Act, the clause which enables the cancellation of patents on the ground that
the patent was publicly known elsewhere i.e. outside India would be committed.
Section 64(e) of the Patents Act, 1970 reads as follows:-

"64. Revocation of patents--(1) Subject to the provisions contained in this
Act, a patent, whether granted before or after the commencement of this Act,
may, on the petition of any person interested or of the Central Government or
on a counter-claim in a suit for infringement of the patent, be revoked by the
High Court on any of the following grounds, that is to say:-

.....

(e) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete
specification is not nw, having regard to what was publicly known or publicly
used in India before the priority date of the claim or to what was published
in India or elsewhere in any of the documents referred to in Section 13;

Provided that in relation to patents granted under the Indian Patents and
Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), this clause shall have effect as if the words
"or elsewhere" has been omitted;"

In contrast, that is not done in this case. It is, therefore, clear that the
question of registration and cancellation of registration must be decided
under the new Act. Therefore also the question whether and to the extent to
which it can be used as a ground of defence in a suit for injunction will also
have to be decided with reference to the new Act.

12\. Having come to the conclusion that it is the intention of Parliament that
matters of registration and cancellation should be dealt with under the new
Act. I do not consider it appropriate to nullify or in any way dilute that
intention on the alleged ground of hardship. It was argued that registration
become vulnerable on the ground that those designs were published outside
India - a ground not available at the time of registration; and that there
would be many applications for cancellation of registrations. Firstly, such a
consequence even assuming it to be real cannot be allowed to affect the
intention of Parliament. Even otherwise, admittedly, registrations are granted
for a fixed duration such as 10 years and are not permanent. The argument of
hard consequences does not have much substance in this case. The learned
counsel for the defendant submitted that the registered design of the
plaintiffs has been published outside India i.e in the U.S.A. and also in
India, prior to the date of registration of the plaintiffs design. The
plaintiffs design was registered on 1.8.1997. According to the defendants, a
substantially similar design was published on 5.5.1992 and 2.11.1993 being
United States patent Nos. Des.325,931 and Des. 340,947. These very designs
were published in the U.S. Gazettes which Gazettes were received by the Patent
Office at Calcutta on 14.8.1992 and 25.3.1994 and these were available to the
public in the Patent Officer library prior to 1.8.1997. There is no effective
denial that the U.S. patents were received by the Patent Office at Calcutta.
The Dy. Controller of Patents & Designs, Calcutta, has written a letter dated
2.4.2003 which is at exh. 'Z' to the defendants affidavit dated 5.4.2003 in
which the Controller has clearly stated that the U.S. Gazettes were received
by that office on 14.8.1992 and 25.3.1994 and that the said Gazettes were a
part of the records of the Patent Office Library and were available for public
inspection. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs, however, contended that
the publication is not of a design which can be said to be substantially
similar. Going purely by the design aspect, I find that there is substantial
similarity between U.S. patent Nos. Des.340,947 patented on 2.11.1993 and the
registered design of the plaintiffs. The only difference seems to be that the
length of the clip on the U.S. design is not as long as in the plaintiffs
design and further the clip in the U.S. design has three lines or striation
which the plaintiffs clip does not have. The rest of the design seems to be
similar. There appears to be one difference between the two and that is the
fact that the highlighter in the U.S. design seems to be a transparent body. I
do not see the importance of the colour or transparency of the body or its
similarity while considering the substantial similarity of the design. Prima
facie, the plaintiffs design is liable for cancellation on account of the fact
that it was published in India and also in the United States prior to the date
of its registration. The plaintiffs are, therefore, not entitled to an
injunction on the ground of infringement of the design in view of the
provisions of Section 19 read with Section 21 of the Designs Act, 2000. The
learned counsel for the plaintiffs at one stage disputed the fact of
publication of the design in India and abroad on the ground that the
publication cannot mean a mere pictorial publication of the design but can be
said to take place only where and when goods are produced. This argument must
be rejected in view of what has been held to constitute publication. In The
Wimco Ltd., Bombay v. Meena Match Industries, Sivakasi and Ors., reported in
1983 P.T.C. 373, the Delhi High Court accepted the meaning of publication as
stated in Russel-Clarke in Copyright in Industrial Design, Fourth Edition. The
Delhi High Court observed as under:-

"8. The word "published" used in Sections 43 and 51A of the Act has not been
defined in the Act. Publication within the meaning of the Act means the
opposite of being kept secret. It is published if a design is no longer a
secret. There is publication if the design has been disclosed so the public or
the public has been put in possession of the design. Russel-Clarke in
Copyright in Industrial Designs, Fourth Edn. (pages 41-42) says:-

"...........It is sufficient, and there will be publication if the knowledge
was either:-

(1) Available to members of the public: or (2) Actually in fact shown and
disclosed to some individual member of the public who was under no obligation
to keep it secret.

It is not necessary that the design should have been actually used. There will
just as must be publication if it is shown that it was known to the public,
without ever having been actually put into use Thus, publication may be of two
types:

(a) Publication in prior documents,

(b) Publication by prior user."

It was observed that publication even to a single person is sufficient.

12\. in Gunston v. Winox Ltd., reported in 38 R.P.C. 40, it was held that
showing of a design to a prospective customer to obtain an order constitutes
publication thereof. In A. Pressler & Company Ld. v. Gartside & Company (of
Manchester) Ld. and Widd and Owen Ld., reported in 50 R.P.C. 240, the
availability of the design in a private library was held to constitute its
publication. In W. Steel & Coy. Ld. (1958 R.P.C. 411), the publication of the
design in a magazine was sufficient to constitute its publication. There is,
therefore, no substance in the contention that merely because substantially
similar designs are shown to have been published and goods produced or
manufactured, they must be taken as not published at all.

13\. Now take up the question of passing-off. The plaintiffs contention is
that their goods have been passed-off by the defendants and there is every
likelihood of damage of reputation and goodwill in the trade According to the
plaintiffs, the plaintiffs have an international reputation. The plaintiffs
claim an international reputation and goodwill of the Faber-Castell brand name
which is a world reputed manufacturer of writing instrument since 1761. The
plaintiffs claim that the mark TEXTLINER has been adopted by them since the
year 1976 by the predecessor in interest i.e. A.W. Faber-Castel
Unternehmensverwaltung GmbH & Co. According to the plaintiffs, the trade mark
"TEXTLINER" is adopted by them in respect of stationery product being writing
and fluorescent colouring instrument/pen and highlighter/marker in July 1982.
"TEXTLINER" is registered as a trade mark in U.K. From November 1989 they have
got the design registered in India. The plaintiffs claim to have commenced
marketing the goods in India and thee is substantial sales figures which are
referred to above. The plaintiffs claim to have sold more than 35 million
pieces of the highlighter. Since 1998 the plaintiffs claim to have spent an
amount of Rs. 6 lakhs for printing and making available to the public the
brochures, etc. There is no effective denial of these facts. Prima facie, I am
inclined to accept the fact that the plaintiffs have acquired a reputation for
the highlighters under the trade mark "TEXTLINER". It is necessary now to see
whether the defendants are making any misrepresentation which is likely to
lead confusion or deception and whether there is a likelihood of any damage to
the plaintiffs reputation.

14\. At the outset, it must be noted that the plaintiffs are claiming an
injunction against passing-off not only on the basis of the trade mark
"TEXTLINER", but they claim a uniqueness in the configuration, shape, design,
colour scheme and get-up of their products. Prima facie, one must observe that
the defendants' product. In fact, from a distance, they are virtually
indistinguishable. Mr. Tulzapurkar, learned counsel for the defendant,
however, submits that the plaintiffs are not entitled to claim any property in
the trade mark "TEXTLINER" because that word is purely descriptive of the
nature and the character of the function to be performed by the goods in
question, viz., a device/instrument to mark or line the text or any written or
printed matter. According to him, therefore, the word "TEXTLINER" is purely
descriptive of the nature and/or character and the function of the goods in
question is not and cannot be a trade mark at all. the learned counsel refers
to para 1(d) of the 2nd affidavit-in-rejoinder filed by the plaintiffs wherein
the plaintiffs have denied that the mark is "wholly descriptive". There
appears to be substance in this contention. There is no doubt that "TEXTLINER"
is a result of combination of TEXT and LINER. These two words taken
independently are purety descriptive. I find that the result of the
combination is also descriptive. It is descriptive of the function which the
article is intended to perform. For instance, if the mark "running shoe" was
used for shoes, it would clearly the descriptive of the goods even if the
words "running shoes" were joint. I think the case is similar to the case of
"SAFEMIX" reporter in 1978 R.P.C. 397, wherein an application for registration
was refused on the ground that the mark consisted of the words "SAFE" and
"MIX" conjoined. Reliance has rightly been placed on the decision in Rochem
Separation Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd. v. Tas Engineering Co. Pvt. Ltd. wherein the
words "Disc Tube" were held to be descriptive by this Court. It is also true
that as held by this Court in 1999 P.T.C. 449 that where descriptive words are
concerned, small differences are enough to distinguish and a mere similarity
is not enough for passing-off. The similarity must be accompanied by a
misrepresentation. Applying the aforesaid decisions, I am of view that the
plaintiffs have not, prima facie, established an exclusive right to the use of
the word "TEXTLINER" which is descriptive in nature. It has not acquired any
secondary significance taken by itself. It is important to recall the well-
known passage from Cellular Clothing Co. Ltd. v. Maxton and Murray which is
quoted in the decision of the Kerala High Court in Bharathiya Coffee workers
Catering Service (P) Ltd. v. Indian Coffee Workers Coop. Society Ltd.,
reported in 1999 PTC (19) 431:

"But I confess I have always thought, and I still think that it should be made
almost impossible for any one to obtain the exclusive right to the use of a
word of term which is in ordinary use in our language and which is descriptive
only and, indeed, were it not for the decision in Reddaways case 91896 AC 199)
I should say this should be made altogether impossible. But where the
plaintiffs: proof shows that he only representation by the defendants consists
in the use of a term or terms which aptly and correctly describe the goods
offered for sale, as in the present case, it must be a condition of the
plaintiffs success that they should prove that these terms no longer mean what
they say--or no longer mean only what they say--but have acquired the
secondary and further meaning that the particular goods are goods made by the
plaintiffs, and, as I have already indicated, it is in my view difficult to
conceive cases in which the facts will come up to this."

Prima facie, it would follow that the word "TEXTLINER" is neither adapted to
distinguish nor capable of distinguishing the goods of a particular
manufacturer from those of another.

15\. But is it the case that the plaintiffs goods taken as a whole have
nothing distinctive so as to identify them with the plaintiffs? The plaintiffs
have claimed an injunction against passing-off based not only on the mark
"TEXTLINER", but also on the configuration and colour scheme, trade dress and
get-up. The question, therefore, is whether taking the plaintiffs highlighter
as a whole and the defendants highlighter as a whole, it could be said that
the defendants are passing off their goods as those of the plaintiffs. I am of
view that the answer must be in the affirmative. Now the theory of passing-off
has been described adequately in a passage from Reckitt and Colman Products
Ltd. v. Borden Inc. (1990) 1 All ER 873:-

"The essence of the action for passing-off is a deceipt practised on the
public and it can be no answer, in a case where it is demonstrable that the
public has been or will be deceived, that they would not have been if they had
been more careful, more literate or more perspicacious. Customers have to be
taken as they are found. As Lord Black burn observed in R. Johnson and Co. v.
Archibald Orr Ewing and Co. (1882) 7 App. Case 219 at 229:

"If the plaintiffs had proved that purchasers had actually been deceived by
the use of the mark B and that the defendants after being told of this had
persisted in using this mark B. the plaintiffs would surely have been entitled
to an injunction to prevent the continued use of B: and it could be no answer
that the purchaser, so deceived, were incautious: the loss to the plaintiffs
of the customs of an incautious purchaser is as great a damage as the loss of
that of a cautious one."

Therefore, it is clear that the passing-off does not take place merely on a
deceptive similarity between the goods only with reference to the trade mark.
It takes place if there was, on the whole, such a deceptive similarity as
would confuse the customers as to the identity of the product and that too at
the time of purchase.

16\. Now in the present case, it must be borne in mind that the goods in
question would be sold in the same place to customers who would tend to be in
a hurry. It is necessary to look at the two types of goods from the view and
first impression of a person of average intelligence and imperfect
recollection. it is necessary to see the general impression which the
defendants goods may create, rather than look at some detail, or a
photographic recollection of the whole. The purchaser must not be put in a
state of confusion without microscopic examination. looked at from this point
of view, it is obvious that the defendants highlighters are substantially
similar to the plaintiffs. It is true that many things are common to the trade
such as a dark body and a cap and bottom plug of the same colour as the
fluorescent ink. A clip, per se, may also be considered as common to the trade
because it makes the carrying of such instrument extremely convenient: though
the shape and size of the clip may be distinctive. What may not be considered
as common to the trade, however, is the shape of the body of the highlighter.
These instruments may come in many shapes, round, oval, tapering from one end
to the other, etc. With this, the similarities between the two may be
considered. To take up the plaintiffs TEXTLINER first, the text of the
plaintiffs reads as follows:-

"FABER-CASTELL TEXTLINER 48 REFILL PAPER-COPY-FAX."

The text of the defendants reads as follows:-

"KOLORPIK TEXTLINER 999 PAPER-COPY-FAX."

Between the first two lines, line of the same size runs amongst both marks.
The text is written in gold lettering in almost identical front. Even the
words in the last line "PAPER, COPY.FAX" are written identically with the
full-stop in between. Other than the plaintiffs there is no other highlighter
which is called "TEXTLINER". Thus while it is possible to argue that anybody
looking at the text of both would be able t see that the plaintiffs have
"FABER-CASTELL" written on it and the defendants "KOLORPIK" written on it, in
fact however the way the text is arranged and the colour of the lettering used
makes it confusing, particularly when they are not looked at the compared
simultaneously. Such simultaneous comparison does not necessarily take place
while purchasing. Therefore, if the highlighter of the plaintiffs is seen and
put down and thereafter the defendants is picked up and read. I am of view it
would create a confusion. The lettering is indistinguishable. Apart from the
lettering, the clip is also similar. There is a minor variation, viz., a
slight curve at the end of the clip, but it is something which would hardly be
distinguishable at the time of purchase and even otherwise. Similarly, the
size and colour of the plug at the bottom is very similar. The only difference
seems to be the absence of serrations on the defendants highlighter which is
hardly noticeable, particularly when each individual item is wrapped in a
small polythene bag. Similarly, there is slight difference at the two ends, in
that the defendants highlighter is flat at the ends and whereas the ends of
the plaintiffs highlighter are slightly curved. But this is hardly noticeable.
Thus there is a confusing similarity in the text which includes the word
"TEXTLINER", the colour of the text, the colour scheme and the get-up of the
two highlighters in general.

17\. Further, the colour of the body of the defendants TEXTLINER is identical
with that of the plaintiffs i.e. deep green. On the whole, thee is a deceptive
similarity. Thus, in the present case, there is not only an adoption by the
defendants of the trade mark "TEXTLINER" but the other material added to that
is also added in such a way as to show an almost identical resemblance with
that of the plaintiffs. In the circumstances, it is not possible to apply the
observations of the Supreme Court in Durga Dutt Sharma v. N.P. Laboratories
wherein para 29 their Lordships observed as follows:-

"Expressed in another way, if the essential features of the trade mark of the
plaintiff have been adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get-up,
packing and other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in which he
offers his goods for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade
origin different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark would be
immaterial: whereas in the case of passing off, the defendant may escape
liability if he can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish
his goods from those of the plaintiff."

18\. In the result, I find that this is a case of deceptive similarity and
definite misrepresentation. The consequent damages by way of loss of sale,
goodwill, reputation, etc. are, therefore, bound to follow. The plaintiff,
therefore, have a prima facie case for the grant of an injunction. Having come
to this conclusion, the question of balance of convenience loses significance.
Thus, I consider it appropriate in the interest of justice to allow the Notice
of Motion. Accordingly, the Notice of Motion is allowed in terms of prayer
Clause (c).

19\. Certified copy expedited.

20\. P.S. to give ordinary copy of this judgment to the parties concerned.

