

Supreme Court of India

Board Of Revenue Etc vs A. M. Ansari Etc on 17 March, 1976

Equivalent citations: 1976 AIR 1813, 1976 SCR (3) 661

Author: J Singh

Bench: Singh, Jaswant

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    BOARD OF REVENUE ETC.
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    A. M. ANSARI ETC.
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT17/03/1976
    
    BENCH:
    SINGH, JASWANT
    BENCH:
    SINGH, JASWANT
    RAY, A.N. (CJ)
    BEG, M. HAMEEDULLAH
    
    CITATION:
     1976 AIR 1813		  1976 SCR  (3) 661
     1976 SCC  (3) 512
     CITATOR INFO :
     R	    1976 SC1860	 (10)
     E&D	    1985 SC1293	 (115)
     R	    1988 SC1845	 (11)
    
    
    ACT:
         Indian Stamp  (Andhra Pradesh  Extension and Amendment)
    Act XIX	 of 1959-Arts.	31(c) and  35(c)-Scope of-Lease	 and
    licence-Distinction.
         Sales Tax-Whether payable on annual auction Sales.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
         Under the terms and conditions of sale the respondents,
    who were  the  highest	bidders	 at  an	 auction  of  forest
    produce,  were	 called	 upon  to  pay	stamp  duty  on	 the
    agreements to  be executed by them as if they were leases of
    immovable property  falling under  Art.	 31(c)	and  on	 the
    deposits of  security as  mortgages under  art. 35(c) of the
    Indian Stamp Act, 1899 as also sales tax on the bid amounts.
    In a petition under art. 226, the respondents contended that
    the right to pluck, collect and take away the forest produce
    was not a right or interest in immovable property within the
    meaning of  art.  31(c)	 of  the  Stamp	 Act,  the  security
    deposits were  not mortgages nor did the Government carry on
    any business  of sale  and, as such, they were not liable to
    pay  the  amounts  demanded.  The  High	 Court	allowed	 the
    petitions.
         Dismissing the State's appeal,
    ^
         HELD :  The acquisition by the respondents not being an
    interest in  the soil  but merely a right to cut the fructus
    naturales, the	agreements possessed  the characteristics of
    licences and  did not  amount to leases so as to attract the
    applicability of art. 31 (c) of the Stamp Act. [667D]
         Firm Chhotabhai  Jethabai Patel  & Co.  & Ors.  v.	 The
    State of  Madhya Pradesh,  [1953] S.C.R.  476 and Mahadeo v.
    State of  Bombay 1959  S.C.J. 1021:  A.I.R.  1959  S.C.	 735
    referred to.
         (1) A  study of  the definitions  of immovable property
    occurring in  the Transfer of Property Act, the Registration
    Act and	 the General  Clauses  Act  shows  that	 it  is	 the
    creation of  an interest in immovable property or a right to
    possess it  that distinguishes	a lease	 from a	 licence.  A
    licence does not create an interest in the property to which
    it relates  while a lease does. In the case of a lease there
    is transfer  of a  right to  enjoy  the	 property.  For	 the
    purpose of  deciding whether a particular grant amounts to a
    lease or a licence, it is essential to look to the substance
    and essence of the agreement and not to its form. [665F-G]
         Associated Hotels	of India Ltd. v. R. N. Kapoor A.I.R.
    1959  S.C.   1262;  Kauri  Timber  Company  Limited  v.	 The
    Commissioner of	 Taxes, [1913]	A.C. 771  (776) Marshall  v.
    Green (1875)  L.R.I.C.P.I.D. 35 and Firm Chhotabhai Jethabai
    Patel &	 Co. &	Ors. v.	 The State  of Madhya Pradesh [1953]
    S.C.R. 576 referred to.
         Mahadeo v.	 State of  Bombay 1959 S.C.J. 1021: AIR 1959
    S.C. 735 distinguished.
         In the  instant case the salient features emerging from
    the agreements	are (i)	 that they  were made  for  a  short
    duration of  9 to  10 months;  (ii) they  did not create any
    estate or  interest in	the land  and (iii)  the respondents
    were not  granted exclusive  possession and  control of	 the
    land but  were merely granted the right to pluck, cut, carry
    away and  appropriate the forest produce, present or future.
    The right  to go  on the land was only ancillary to the real
    purpose of the contract. [667C-D]
    662
         (2) The  respondent could	not be	called upon  to	 pay
    stamp duty  under Art.	35(c)  of  the	Stamp  Act.  For  an
    instrument to  fall within  the definition  of mortgage deed
    contained in  s. 2(17) of the Stamp Act it is necessary that
    it should  satisfy the	essential conditions  by creating  a
    right over  or in  respect of a specified property in favour
    of another person. [671D; 670G]
         In the  instant case  there is  nothing in the relevant
    clause of the sale notice to indicate that any right over or
    in the	security deposits was created in favour of the State
    Government. [671A]
         Reference under  Stamp Act,  Section 46  15 I.L.R. Mad.
    134 and	 Rishidev Sondhi  v. Dhampur Sugar Mills A.I.R. 1947
    All. 190 F.B. approved.
         (3) (a)  The respondents  were not	 liable to pay sales
    tax. It	 cannot be  said that  the  Government,	 by  holding
    auction of  forest produce,  carried on business in the sale
    of that	 class of  goods, which is an essential condition to
    make the respondents liable to pay sales tax. [670D]
         State of  Gujarat	v.  Raipur  Manufacturing  Co.	Ltd.
    (1967) 19 S.T.C. 1(S.C.) followed.
         (b)  The  consideration  of  profit  motive  cannot  be
    regarded as  an essential  ingredient of the term 'business'
    in view	 of the	 amendment in  the definition of 'dealer' in
    1966. The  auctions were carried on only annually and not at
    frequent intervals. The important element of frequency being
    lacking it  cannot be  held that the Government was carrying
    on the business of sale of forest produce. [669D-E]
         P.T.C.C.S. Merchants  Union v.  State of A.P., (1958) 2
    An. W.R.  100: (1958)  9 S.T.C.	 723; Raja  Bhairabendra  v.
    Superintendent of  Taxes (1958)	 9 S.T.C.  60; Orient  Paper
    Mills Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. (1971) 28
    S.T.C. 532;  Deputy Commissioner  of Agricultural Income-Tax
    and Sales  Tax, Quilon	v. Travancore  Rubber  and  Tea	 Co.
    (1967)	20   S.T.C.  520   (S.C.);  Deputy  Commissioner  of
    Agricultural Income-tax	 and Sales  Tax, Quilon	 v.  Midland
    Rubber and  Produce Co.	 Ltd. [1970]  25  S.T.C.  57  (S.C.)
    Ramakrishna Deo v. The Collector of Sales Tax, Orissa (1955)
    6 S.T.C. 674 referred to.
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeals Nos. 67 to 122 and 238 of 1969.

From the Judgment and Decree dated the 21-8-67 of the Andhra Pradesh High
Court in Writ Petitions Nos. 489, 491, 537, 538, 539, 540, 541, 561, 635, 636,
638, 639, 677, 684, 686, 688, 695, 710, 711, 712, 713, 714, 715, 716, 717,
718, 719, 811, 812, 813, 830, 831, 832, 853, 854, 855, 867, 870, 1146, 1216,
1219, 1260, 1261, 1265, 1284, 1285, 1292, 1293, 1294, 1309, 1310, 1340, 1446,
1447, 1697 and 687 of 1967 respectively.

P. Ram Reddy, B. Parthasarthi for the Appellants. K. J. John and J. B.
Dadachanji for Respondent in CAs. 67, 78, 79, 100, 101, and 103 of 1969.

G. Narayana Rao for Respondent in CAs. 69-73/69. H. K. Puri and R. V. Pillai
for Respondents in CAs Nos. 77, 83, 89, 90, 93, 95, 96, 102 and 120/69.

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JASWANT SINGH, J.-This bunch of
Civil Appeals Nos. 67- 122 238 of 1969 by certificate granted under Article
133(1)(b) of the Constitution by the High Court of Judicature of Andhra
Pradesh at 663 Hyderabad by its order dated June, 28, 1968 against its common
judgment and order dated August 21, 1967, passed in Writ Petition Nos. 489,
491, 537 to 541, 635, 684, 685, 687, 688, 830 to 832, 561, 1219, 715 to 719,
812, 813, 1216, 677, 638, 639, 695, 853 to 856, 636, 867, 870, 1146, 1285,
1260, 1261, 1284, 1292, 1293, 1294, 1309, 1310, 1340, 1447, 1697 and 1265 of
1967 which raise interesting questions of law relating to the interpretation
of some of the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the Andhra Pradesh
General Sales Tax Act, 1957 shall be disposed of by this judgment.

The facts giving rise to these appeals are: The Forest Department of the
Government of Andhra Pradesh after giving a sale notice held, in accordance
with the terms and conditions thereof, an auction in 1967 in respect of
various items of forest produce viz. timber, fuel, bamboos, minor forest
produce, beedi leaves, tanning barks, parks mohwa etc. Clause 23 of the notice
inter alia required the contractors to pay within 10 days of the receipt of
the confirmation orders of the competent authority: (a) the balance of the 1st
instalment amount, as might be fixed by the Divisional Forest Officer, (b) 6
1/4% of the bid amount as security deposit; (c) sales tax on the bid amount at
the rates current at the time of the sale. Clause 60 of the notice provided
that the contractors would at all times comply with the provisions of the
Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Extension and Amendment) Act XIX of 1959, and the
Andhra Pradesh Court Fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956, and all the rules
that might, from time to time, be in force thereunder.

The respondents herein being the highest bidders in respect of some items of
the forest produce were called upon to pay in terms of the above noted
conditions the stamp duty on the agreements to be executed by them as if they
were leases of immovable property falling under Article 31 (c) of the Indian
Stamp Act, 1899. They were also called upon to pay sales tax on the bid amount
in terms of clause (23) of the sale notice. They were further called upon to
pay stamp duty on the deposits made by them by way of security as mortgages,
falling within Article 35(c) of the Stamp Act. Aggrieved by the said notices,
the respondents filed the aforesaid petitions under Article 226 of the
Constitution for issue of appropriate writs etc. declaring the aforesaid
demand notices as illegal and void and restraining the appellants from
enforcing or taking any proceeding for the levy and recovery of the amounts
mentioned therein. The respondents contended before the High Court that as the
right to pluck, collect and take away beedi leaves and to cut and carry away
bamboos, standing timber etc. was not a right or interest in immovable
property so as to attract Article 31(c) of the Stamp Act, there could be no
question of payment by them of the stamp duty. The respondents also challenged
the demand made from them for payment of sales tax on the bid amount on the
ground that as the Government did not carry on any business of sale, the
demand was illegal. They further challenged the demand of stamp duty under
Article 35(c) of the Stamp Act pleading that the security deposits were not
mortgages so as to attract the provisions of the said Article of the Stamp
Act.

664

The petitions were contested by the appellants herein who contended inter alia
that pursuant to clause (60) of the terms and conditions of the sale notice,
the respondents were bound to pay the stamp duties that were chargeable in
view of the extension of the Indian Stamp Act to the whole of the State of
Andhra Pradesh by the Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Extension and Amendment)
Act XIX of 1959 with effect from April 1, 1959, and repeal of the Hyderabad
Stamp Act, and the rules, notifications, instructions etc. made or issued
thereunder: that the right acquired by the respondents was not merely a right
to collect, appropriate and sell beedi leaves that had already grown but also
the right to collect, use and sell beedi leaves that would subsequently grow
on the standing trees and their branches taking nourishment from the land
during the period of lease which showed that the respondents obtained under
the agreement an interest in immovable property. The appellants further
contended that the respondents were, according to the sale notice, liable to
pay sales tax on the bid amount as also the stamp duty on security deposits
which fell within the definition of mortgages as contemplated by the Stamp
Act.

On a careful consideration of the respective stands of the parties, the High
Court negatived the contentions of the appellants and allowed the petitions.
Aggrieved by the Judgment and order of the High Court, the appellants applied
for certificate under Article 133(1)(b) of the Constitution which, as already
stated, was granted to them. This is how the appeals are before us.

Three questions fall for consideration in these appeals. The first question
that we are called upon to determine is whether the agreements which the
respondents were called upon to execute in respect of the aforesaid rights
relating to forest produce were in the nature of leases or licences.

It is necessary in this connection to notice at the outset the distinction
between a lease and a licence by reference to the relevant Acts. Section 2
(16) of the Stamp Act defines the lease as meaning a lease of immovable
property but this definition, it would be noted, is neither exhaustive nor
self-explanatory. We are, therefore, driven to find out the true meaning of
the term by turning to the Transfer of Property Act. Section 105 of the said
Act defines 'lease' as follows :-

> "A lease of immovable property is a transfer of a right to enjoy such
> property, made for a certain time, express or implied, or in perpetuity in
> consideration of a price paid or promised, or of money."

'Licence' is defined in section 52 of the Easement Act, 1882 as under:-

> "Where one person grants to another, or to a definite number of other
> persons, a right to do, or continue to do, in or upon the immovable property
> of the grantor, something which would, in the absence of such right, be
> unlawful, and such right does not amount to an easement or an interest in
> the property, the right is called a licence".

665

The expression 'immovable property' is not defined in the Stamp Act but is
defined in section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, section 2(6) of the
Registration Act and section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act. An idea as to
the meaning of the expression can also be gleaned from section 2(7) of the
Sales of Goods Act. According to learned counsel for the appellants, it is the
definition of 'immovable property as given in section 3 (26) of the General
Clauses Act that has to be applied in determining. whether the agreements in
question fall within the definition of 'lease' or not. It would be useful at
this stage to set out in juxtaposition the definitions of 'immovable property'
as contained in the aforesaid Acts, as also the definition of goods as given
in the Sale of Goods Act:-

\------------------------------------------------------------ Section 3(26) of
Section 3 of Section 2(6) of Section 2(7) General Clauses Transfer of
Registration Sale of Act. Property Act. Act. Goods Act.

\------------------------------------------------------------ "Immovable pro-
In this Act, "Immovable pro- In this Act, perty" shall unless there perty"
includes unless there include land, is something land, buildings is anything
benefits to repugnant in hereditary repugnant in arise out of the subject
allowances, the subject land, and or context rights to or context, things
attached "immovable ways, lights, "goods" to the earth, property" ferries, or
means every or permanently does not any other bene- kind of mov- fastened to
any- include stand- fits to arise able pro- thing attached ding timber, out of
land, perty other to the earth. growing crops and things than action-

> or grass. attached to the able claims earth or per- money; and manently fas-
> includes ened to any- stock and thing which is shares, grow attached to the
> ing crops, earth, but not grass and standing timber things atta-

> growing crops ched to or nor grass. forming part of the land which are
> agreed to be severed before or under the contract or sale.

\------------------------------------------------------------

A close study of the above definitions shows that it is the creation of an
interest in immovable property or right to possess it that distinguishes a
lease from a licence. A licence does not create an interest in the property to
which it relates while a lease does. There is in other words transfer of a
right to enjoy the property in case of a lease. As to whether a particular
transaction creates a lease or a licence is always a question of intention of
the parties which is to be inferred from the circumstances of each case. For
the purpose of deciding whether a particular grant amounts to a lease or a
licence, it is essential, therefore, to look to the substance and essence of
the agreement and not to its form. We are fortified in this view by the
decision of this Court in Associated Hotels of India Ltd. v. R. N. Kapoor
where Subba Rao, J. (with whom Das, J. agreed) observed:

> "If a document gives only a right to use the property in a particular way or
> under certain terms while it remains in possession and control of the owner
> thereof, it will be a licence. The legal possession, therefore, continues to
> be 666 with the owner of the property, but the licensee is permitted to make
> use of the premises for a particular purpose. But for the permission, his
> occupation would be unlawful. It does not create in his favour any estate or
> interest in the property. There is therefore, clear distinction between the
> two concepts. The dividing line is clear though sometimes it becomes very
> thin or even blurred. At one time it was thought that the test of exclusive
> possession was infallible and if a person was given exclusive possession of
> a premises, it would conclusively establish that he was a lessee. But there
> was a change and the recent trend of judicial opinion is reflected in
> Errington v. Errington [1952] 1 All ER 149, wherein Lord Denning reviewing
> the case law on the subject summarizes the result of his discussion thus at
> p. 155:

> "The result of all these cases is that, although a person who is let into
> exclusive possession is, prima facie, to be considered to be tenant,
> nevertheless he will not be held to be so if the circumstances negative any
> intention to create a tenancy." The Court of Appeal again in Cobb v. Lane
> [1952] I All ER 1199, considered the legal position and laid down that the
> intention of the parties was the real test for ascertaining the character of
> a document. At p. 1201, Somervell L.J., stated:

> "..... The solution that would seem to have been found is, one would expect,
> that it must depend on the intention of the parties".

> Denning L.J. said much to the same effect at p. 1202:

> "The question in all these cases is one of intention: Did the circumstances
> and the conduct of the parties show that all that was intended was that the
> occupier should have a personal privilege with no interest in the land?"

> The following propositions may, therefore, be taken as well-established: (1)
> To ascertain whether a document creates a licence or lease, the substance of
> the document must be preferred to the form: (2) the real test is the
> intention of the parties-whether they intended to create a lease or a
> licence; (3) if the document creates an interest in the property, it is a
> lease; but, if it only permits another to make use of the property, of which
> the legal possession continues with the owner, it is a licence; and (4) if
> under the document a party gets exclusive possession of the property, 'prima
> facie' he is considered to be a tenant, but circumstances may be established
> which negative the intention to create a lease."

The crucial tests to be employed in cases of the present nature can be
gathered from the observations made by Lord Shaw while delivering the judgment
of the Board in Kauri Timber Company Limited v.

667

The Commissioner of Taxes(1). According to those observations, in order, an
agreement can be said to partake of the character of lease, it is necessary
that the grantee should have obtained an interest in and possession of land.
If the contract does not create an interest in land then to use the words of
Lord Coleridge, C.J. in Marshall v. Green(2) the land would be considered as a
mere warehouse of the thing sold and the contract would be a contract for
goods.

For the purpose, therefore, of ascertaining the intention of the parties and
finding out the character of the agreements in question, it is necessary to
notice the salient features of the agreements. The first salient feature of
the agreements is that they were for a short duration of nine to ten months.
The second important feature of the agreements is that they did not create any
estate or interest in land. The third salient feature of the agreements is
that the respondents were not granted exclusive possession and control of the
land but were merely granted the right to pluck, cut, carry away and
appropriate the forest produce that might have been existing at the time of
the contract or which might have come into existence during the short period
of the currency of the agreements. The right to go on the land was only
ancillary to the real purpose of the contract. Thus the acquisition by the
respondents not being an interest in the soil but merely a right to cut the
fructus naturales, we are clearly of the view that the agreements in question
possessed the characteristics of licences and did not amount to leases so as
to attract the applicability of Article 31(c) of the Stamp Act.

The conclusion arrived at by us gains strength from the judgment of this Court
in Firm Chhotabhai Jethabai Patel and Co. & Ors. v. The State of Madhya
Pradesh where contracts and agreements entered into by person with the
previous proprietors of certain estates and mahals in the State under which
they acquired the rights to pluck, collect and carry away tendu leaves, to
cultivate, culture and acquire lac, and to cut and carry away teak and timber
and miscellaneous species of trees called hardwood and bamboos were held in
essence and effect to be licences.

There is, of course a judgment of this Court in Mahadeo v. State of Bombay(4)
where seemingly a somewhat different view was expressed but the facts of that
case were quite distinguishable. In that case apart from the bare right to
take the leaves of tendu trees, there were further benefits including the
right to occupy the land, to erect buildings and to take away other forest
produce not necessarily standing timber, growing crop or grass and the rights
were spread over many years.

For the foreging reasons, the first question has to be decided in favour of
the respondents.

The second question that falls for consideration is whether the respondents
could be validly called upon to pay the sales tax. For 668 the decision of
this question, it is necessary to examine a few provisions of the Andhra
Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957\. The charging section is section 5 which
in so far as it is relevant for the purpose of these appeals runs thus:-

> "5. Levy of tax on Sales or Purchases of Goods:- (1) Every dealer (other
> than a casual trader and an agent of a non-resident dealer) whose total
> turnover for a year is not less than Rs. 25,000 and every agent of a
> nonresident dealer whatever be his turnover for the year, shall pay a tax
> for each year, at the rate of four paise on every rupee of his turnover:
> "Every casual trader shall pay a tax at the rate of four paise on every
> rupee of his turnover: Provided that a dealer in jaggery shall pay a tax at
> the rate of two paise on every rupee upto the 31st March 1966 and at the
> rate of three paise on every rupee on and from the 1st April 1966, of his
> turn-over irrespective of the quantum of turnover".

The term 'dealer' has been defined in section 2(e) of the Act as follows:-

> "dealer" means any person who carries on the business of buying, selling,
> supplying or distributing goods, directly or otherwise, whether for cash, or
> for deferred payment, or for commission, remuneration or other valuable
> consideration, and includes (i) the Central Government, a State Government,
> local authority, a company, a Hindu undivided family or any society
> (including a co-operative society), club, firm or association which carries
> on such business ......"

The term 'business' has been defined in section 2(bbb) of the Act as follows:-

> " 'business' includes-(i) any trade, commerce, or manufacture or any
> adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacturing
> whether or not with trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure concern is
> carried on or undertaken with a motive to make gain or profit and whether or
> not any gain or profit accrues therefrom; and

> (ii) any transaction in connection with, or incidental or ancillary to, such
> trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern". 'Sale' is defined in
> section 2(n) thus: 'Sale' with all its grammatical variations and cognate
> expressions means every transfer of the property in goods by one person to
> another in the course of trade or business, for cash, or for deferred
> payment, or for any other valuable consideration, and includes any transfer
> of materials for money consideration in the execution of a 669 works
> contract provided that the contract for the transfer of such materials can
> be separated from the contract for the services and the work done, although
> the two contracts are embodied in a single document or in the supply or
> distribution of goods by a society (including a co-operative society), club,
> firm or association to its members, but does not include a mortgage,
> hypothecation or pledge of, or a charge on, goods".

In order that the sales tax should be payable by the respondents in accordance
with the obligation imposed on them by clause (23) of the sale notice, it is
necessary that the Government of Andhra Pradesh should have been carrying on
the business of selling the forest produce. In State of Gujarat v. Raipur
Manufacturing Co. Ltd., this court while examining the term 'business' in
another context observed that 'whether a person carries on business in a
particular commodity must depend upon the volume, frequency, continuity and
regularity of transactions of purchase and sale in a class of goods and the
transactions must ordinarily be entered into with a profit motive. The Court
further went on to observe that when a subsidiary product is turned out in the
factory of the assessee regularly and continuously and it is being sold from
time to time, an intention to carry on business in such product may be
reasonably attributed to the assessee. As the consideration of profit motive
cannot be regarded an essential constituent of the term 'business' in view of
the amendment introduced in the definition of the term 'dealer' in 1966, what
we are left to consider is whether the other ingredients of the term
'business' viz. volume, frequency, continuity and regularity of transactions
of sale and purchase are satisfied in the instant cases. The auctions of the
forest produce by the Government of Andhra Pradesh are admittedly carried on
only annually and not at frequent intervals. Thus the important element of
frequency being lacking in the instant cases, it cannot be held that the said
Government was carrying on the business of sale of forest produce. In P. T. C.
C. S. Merchants Union v. State of A.P. where a person who grew agricultural
products and incidentally sold the same, it was held that no sales tax was
payable as it could not be said that the person carried on business. A similar
view was expressed in Raja Bhairabendra v. Superintendent of Taxes where
standing sal trees grown spontaneously in his Zamindari were sold by the
Zamindar by auction and the purchasers were permitted to fell the trees and
sell them after sawing and other processes.

In Orient Paper Mills Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. it was held
that the State Government or the forest department could not, merely by
selling the forest produce grown on their land, be regarded as carrying on any
business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods and therefore in
respect of mere sales of forest produce, neither the State Government nor the
forest department was a dealer within the meaning of the definition in section
2(d) of the M.P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958. In Deputy Commissioner 670 of
Agricultural Income-tax and Sales Tax, Quilon v. Travancore Rubber and Tea Co.
and Deputy Commissioner of Agricultural Income-tax and Sales Tax, Quilon v.
Midland Rubber and Produce Co. Lt. where the only facts established were that
the assessee converted the latex tapped from its rubber trees into sheets and
effected a sale of those sheets to its customers and the conversion of latex
into sheets was a process essential for the transport and marketing of the
produce, it was held that the department had not been able to discharge the
onus of proving that the assessee was carrying on business and was, therefore,
a dealer within the meaning of section 2(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act,
1956. In Ramakrishna Deo v. The Collector of Sales Tax, Orissa where Maharaja
of Jeypore had sold the sal trees from his forest for preparing sleepers, it
was held that he was not a dealer within the meaning of the Orissa Act because
he was not carrying on the business of selling or supplying the goods for the
reason that the element of purchase, one of the necessary ingredients of the
business was absent.

In view of the foregoing discussion, we find ourselves unable to hold that the
Government of Andhra Pradesh by holding auction of forest produce carried on
business in the sale of that class of goods. As such, the respondents could
not be made liable to pay the sales tax.

There now remains for consideration only the last question as to whether the
security deposits made by the respondents were in the nature of mortgages so
as to make the respondents liable to pay the stamp duty under Article 35(c) of
the Stamp Act. For the determination of this question, it is necessary to
scrutinize the definition of 'mortgage deed' as contained in section 2(17) of
the Stamp Act which runs thus:-

> "2(17). Mortgage-deed includes every instrument whereby, for the purpose of
> securing money advanced, or to be advanced, by way of loan, or an existing
> or future debt, or the performance of an engagement, one person transfers,
> or creates to, or in favour of, another, a right over or in respect of
> specified property".

A bare perusal of the above definition makes it clear that in order that an
instrument should fall within the above definition, it is necessary that the
instrument should satisfy the essential conditions by creating a right over or
in respect of a specified property in favour of another person.

Bearing in mind the above mentioned essential requisites of a deed of mortgage
let us examine clause (17) of the sale notice to which alone our attention has
been invited. Clause (17) runs thus:-

> "Earnest money deposit to be returned-The earnest money deposits of all
> bidders except those of the successful bidders collected at the time of sale
> according to condition 5 above, will be returned to the depositors, on the
> conclusion 671 of the sales provided that the officer conducting the sale,
> may if he considers it advisable, retain the deposits of any bidders".

There is nothing in the above clause to indicate that any right over or in the
security deposits was created in favour of the State Government.

In Reference under Stamp Act, section 46(1) where a licence issued to an
arrack renter expressly required as one of its conditions that the licensee
should deposit a sum equal to three months' rental as a security for the due
performance of the contract and the licensee executed a muchalka stating that
he agreed to all the terms and conditions mentioned in the licence, it was
held that neither the licence nor the muchalka taken separately or together
fulfilled the conditions of a mortgage as defined in the Stamp Act i.e.,
neither thereby actually created an interest in the deposit in favour of the
Government.

In Rishidev Sondhi v. Dhampur Sugar Mills it was held that an instrument in
which specific sums have been offered as security is not a mortgage deed
within the meaning of section 2(17) as money is not `specified property'.

In view of the above we have no manner of doubt that the respondents could not
be called upon to pay the stamp duty under Article 35(c) of the Stamp Act.

In the result the appeals fail and are hereby dismissed with costs.

    
    
    P.B.R.					  Appeals dismissed.
    672
    
    
    
    

