

Delhi District Court

In State Of Maharashtra And Others vs . Som Nath Thapa on 5 March, 2015

Author: Ms. Shefali Tandon

    
    
     In The Court of Ms. Shefali Barnana Tandon, MM, North West, 
                          Rohini Courts, Delhi.
    
                                                State  V.  Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky
                                                                     FIR No.577/03
                                                                   PS :Model Town
                                                             U/s 498­A/420/494 IPC
    05.03.2015

ORDER ON CHARGE In the present case, accused Charanjeet Singh has been charge
sheeted for the commission of offence U/s 498­A/420/494 IPC by the PS Model
Town on the basis of the complaint lodged by the complainant Mrs. Oshima
Shinobu.

Accused Charanjeet Singh is the husband of complainant.

Arguments on point of charge heard at length on behalf of State by Ld.APP as
well as by Ld.Defence Counsel.

During course of arguments Ld.APP has submitted that there are serious
allegations against the accused for all the offences charge sheeted, whereas
Ld.Defence Counsel has argued that in money transactions Section 406 IPC is
not attracted and for commission of offence U/s 420 IPC initial fraudulent
intention is required, which cannot be inferred in the present case.
Ld.Defence Counsel has further argued that for commission of offence U/s 498A
IPC no specific allegations has been levied against the accused and mere
demand of house has been alleged. It has been further argued by Ld.Defence
Counsel that there are only mere allegations for commission of offence U/s 494
IPC and FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No 1 of 9 there
is nothing on record to prove the same and lastly it is argued that the
sanction given the present matter is a mechanical order.

Written arguments on behalf of accused has also been filed on record along
with various judgments I.e, Phoolwati V. State, Saroop Chand V. State, Anil
Mahajan V. Bhor Industries, Vadival V. Bagialakshmi and Adambhai V. State.

Heard. Entire record perused.

The marriage between complainant and accused has not been disputed.

Written arguments for commission of offence U/s 406/323 IPC have been filed,
though cognizance for the said offences has been declined by the Court vide
order dated 29.10.2004.

In her complaint, it has been stated by the complainant that she is the
Japanese citizen and first time came to India to explore the Indian place
under the tourist visa on dated 29.11.2000. During the said tours she came in
the contact of accused Charanjeet Singh and intimacy between her and accused
became extended to a good friendship and thereafter, accused Charanjeet Singh
invited her to India for next time and also invited to visit and stay at his
home at house no. 190, Old Gupta Colony, Vijay Nagar, Delhi. Thereafter, she
again visited India in Feb,2001.

It has been alleged by the complainant that accused Charanjeet visited Japan
on tourist visa and stayed with her at her home and remained there in Japan
for the period from May,2001 to 18th July 2001. Accused Charanjeet Singh did
not spent money FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No 2 of 9
as he stated to her that he is very poor and there is shortage of jobs in
India and he is not having sufficient money with him, and therefore, lot of
money was spent on Charanjeet by her. She further alleged that before leaving
Japan she gave him 80,000/­ Yen cash through Mitsubishi Bank for air tickets
to return to Japan to marry her, as accused Charanjeet stated that he is in
love with her and wanted to marry her.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that she got married to accused
Charanjeet on 18.01.2002, according to Law of Japan and the Japanese
authorities issued them a certificate of marriage duly signed and authorized
them as husband and wife, according to Law of Japan.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that accused Charanjeet took
some more money from her by saying that she is going to be his wife and she
must have faith in him for her money and property, and on this faith he took
money from her and by assuring to return whenever she requires.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that during the period accused
Charanjeet stayed with her as her husband in Japan, he demanded money all the
time and on every occasion. She does not know what he did with that, but all
time he promised her to return her money and referred that he is her husband
then she must trust on him for his money. It is further alleged that in the
month of Feb, 2003, accused Charanjeet came back to India alone and on 29th
March 2003 he returned to Japan but before leaving Japan in Feb 2003, he
received 90,000 Yen to FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No
3 of 9 1,00,000 Yen from her by impersonating that she is his love,and if she
wants him to return to Japan then she has to give him the said money and he
assured to return the money later. She also faced threatening of Charanjeet
and under compulsion and threat she paid the said amount to Charanjeet and he
also stated that they are husband and wife and if they are husband and wife
then there is equal duty of her and Charanjeet towards the family of
Charanjeet and in this way he made her to pay money.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that accused Charanjeet always
used his influence as husband and she entrusted her money to him, on which he
always had dominion and spent money in his own way without her knowledge and
induced and deceived her and took money from her fraudulently by showing and
referring his relation with her. Whatever money he had from her was her
absolute assets which she earned by doing hard work.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that in the month of April,
2003, accused Charanjeet came to India from Japan on the pretext that he is
feeling lonely and for some time he wants to go to India to meet his mother
and father. This time before going back to India he borrowed 50,000 Yen
through bank transfer from one of their common Japanese friend by saying that
he is not having sufficient money for air tickets. When she came to know about
this she asked him to return the money of that person, on this he promised her
that he would return the money to that person but he did not return the same
to that person.

FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No 4 of 9 Moreover he
took money for air ticket and other expenses from her also with the promise to
return. Since that day he never returned to Japan but he was in touch with her
through phone and he always promised her to come back. On 7th May 2003, when
she came to India, she came to know about the fact that Charanjeet has
fraudulently done second marriage with one Indian lady namely Teemi R/o
G­27/3A, Rajouri Garden, New Delhi, during 26th April to 29th April, 2003.
Accused Charanjeet solemnized the said marriage with Teemi at Gurdwara.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that on 24th when the second
wife of Charanjeet had gone to her parents house at Rajouri Garden, New Delhi,
she stayed with Charanjeet at his residence at House no. 190, old Gupta
Colony, Vijay Nagar, New Delhi and continued stay with him as husband and
wife. During that time Charanjeet, his father and his mother said to her that
they are very poor and have no residential house or shop and also said that he
will make her a partner in that shop and asked money for that. In this regard
she delivered some money to Charanjeet and his parents. Charanjeet also said
that he would come to Japan for 6 months every year and stay with her and
remaining 6 months he will stay in India with his second wife, but she denied
to leave Indian without Charanjeet. On this Charanjeet threatened her and gave
indiscriminate beating at his home and also threatened to put Marijuana (Ganja
or Affeem) in her bag to entangle in criminal case and immediately at the same
moment Charanjeet made a phone call to one of his friend to bring FIR
No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No 5 of 9 Marijuana . She
became afraid with the threatening of Charanjeet and left India.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that She again came to India to
get back Charanjeet and her money but she failed and this time in the month of
July, 2003 he beat her and hold her neck by his hand and pressed with force to
kill her but next moment he removed his hand and forcibly she left India.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that she came to India in July,
2003, and this time she asked to return money and expenses done on him during
his stay in Japan then accused again threatened her and snatched some more
money from her pocket and pushed her towards wall.

It has been further alleged by the complainant that Charanjeet and his other
family member every time demanded money and stated that in Indian marriage
there is tradition of dowry and the girl at the time of marriage bring dowry
for her in­laws without this there is no valid marriage and in view of this
they always demanded money from her and she always gave them money and in last
when she was in India in the month of May 2003 they stated that for the
purpose to purchase new home and shop for Charanjeet she has to give money as
always girl bring money for her husband and his family members whenever they
require. They always kept her under constant threat to kill. In the month of
Feb 2001, when she came to India and stayed at Charanjeet's home they together
encouraged her FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page No 6 of 9
to be the wife of Charanjeet as they wanted to grab money and other valuable
gifts from her and together hatched conspiracy to commit crime against her.

It is further alleged by the complainant that Charanjeet fraudulently with the
intention to cheat her took lot of money from her at Japan as well as in India
and by showing influence as husband of her and had grabbed her hard earned
money by way of cheating her and the money to which she entrusted him as her
husband has been misappropriated dishonestly. Charanjeet and his mother and
father has cheated her and Charanjeet breached her trust under the impression
and relationship as her husband and has taken money and disposed off, used it
and converted it his own use.

It is further alleged by the complainant that Charanjeet has caused mental and
physical cruelty to her. He also committed bigamy by doing second marriage
with another women in India despite of having earlier living wife and during
the life time of his first wife. It has been further stated that both of them
belongs to monogamous communities both in Japan and also in India, the first
marriage with her was legal marriage according to Japan Law and said marriage
is also recognized as legal marriage in India according to law of India and
second marriage during the life time of first wife is punishable in India and
also in Japan.

It has been further stated by the complainant that at the time of marriage,
she gave him some other articles like FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh
@ Vicky Page No 7 of 9 watches, gold bracelet, rings, shoes, clothes,
perfumes, whiskey, belt, sunglasses etc and now he is having all the things
with him.

Now coming to the law point, reliance has been placed by this Court on the
following judgments :

In State of Maharashtra and others Vs. Som Nath Thapa and others, a three
judge Bench stated thus:

"if on the basis of materials on record, a court could come to the conclusion
that commission of the offence is a probable consequence, a case for framing
of charge exists. To put it differently, if the court were to think that the
accused might have committed the offence it can frame the charge, though for
conviction the conclusion is required to be that the accused has committed the
offence. It is apparent that at the stage of framing of a charge, probative
value of the materials on record cannot be gone into; the materials brought on
record by the prosecution has to be accepted as true at that stage."

In State of M.P. Vs. Mohanlal Soni , Apex Court, referring to several previous
decisions held that the crystallized judicial view is that at the stage of
framing charge, the court has to prima facie consider whether there is
sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. The court is not
required to appreciate evidence to conclude whether the materials produced are
sufficient or not for convicting the accused.

The judgments relied by the Ld.Defence Counsel are not on point of charge.

There are specific allegations against the accused qua "cruelty" committed
upon the complainant to come under the purview of Section 498A IPC. There are
also specific allegations FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @ Vicky Page
No 8 of 9 against the accused for commission of offence U/s 420 IPC.

But there are only bald allegations against the accused for commission of
offence U/s 494 IPC as there is not sufficient material on record for the
same. Hence, the accused Charanjeet is discharged for commission of offence
U/s 494 IPC.

In view of aforesaid discussion, this Court is of the considered opinion that
prima facie, there is a sufficient material to frame charge U/s 498A/420 IPC
against the accused Charanjeet Singh (being the husband).

Be put up for framing of charge on 25.06.2015. Announced and dictated in the
open Court today i.e. on 05.03.2015 (Shefali Barnala Tandon) MM, Mahila Court,
North­West Rohini Courts, Delhi FIR No.577/03 State V. Charanjeet Singh @
Vicky Page No 9 of 9

