

Madras High Court

S. Gopalan vs State Of Madras Represented By The ... on 20 March, 1958

Equivalent citations: AIR 1958 Mad 539, (1958) 2 MLJ 117

Author: R Ayyar

JUDGMENT Ramachandra Ayyar, J.

1\. This is a case withdrawn by this Court under Article 228 of the
Constitution from the file of the District Munsif's Court, Karur, where it was
registered as O.S. No. 267 of 1956 as it involved a substantial question of
law as to the interpretation of Article 265 of the Constitution the
determination of which is necessary for the disposal of the suit.

2\. The petitioner is a ryotwari pattadar of certain wet and dry lands covered
by patta Nos. 96 and 623 in Krishnarayapuram village, Kulitalai taluk,
Tiruchira-palli district. He filed O.S. No. 267 of 1956 in the Court of
District Munsif, Karur, against the State of Madras represented by the
Collector of Tiruchirapalli, the respondent herein, praying for the recovery
of a sum of Rs. 24-12-0 collected from him as land revenue fox fasli 1365, as
such levy and collection of the tax was illegal and unconstitutional by reason
of Article 265 of the Constitution of India which provides that no tax shall
be levied except by authority of law. The petitioner claimed that the
respondent had no statutory right to levy and collect assessment on ryotwari
lands and as such the collection of land revenue was contrary to Article 265
of the Constitution. The respondent justified the right to collect the land
revenue and contended that Article 265 was not contravened. The question for
determination is, therefore, whether the levy and collection of land revenue
in respect of ryotwari lands is illegal and unconstitutional by reason of
Article 265 of the Constitution. Article 265 of the Constitution provides No
tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law

3\. Before proceeding further it is necessary to set out the main features of
the ryotwari system of land tenure and the basis of assessment on the lands.
It is well-known that the system of permanent settlement of Lord Cornwallis
was introduced only in a few places in the old Madras Presidency and that the
Board of Directors of the East India Company prohibited its extension to the
rest of the presidency* Thereafter collection of revenue was by way of village
settlement or by granting lease of the whole villages to a middleman that is
to a rentor or headman or to a joint body of inhabitants. That system of
collection of land revenue was not found satisfactory and the ryotwari system
of Sir Thomas Munroe was adopted between 1812 and 1818. It was conceived as a
system of land revenue administration without the middleman, the ryots being
treated as proprietors of their holdings and liable to pay assessment direct
to the Government. The assessment however, was not fixed either in regard to
the land or in regard to the period. Arable lands were classified according to
the nature of the soil and assessment was fixed according to the quality and
extent of the land. Each field or holding was valued separately and the holder
was free to pay the revenue and keep the field or free himself by giving it up
as he pleased. (Baden Powell's Land Systems in British India, Volume III, page
5). Settlements of revenue are made for such periods as the Government fixed
for each district and they are notified in the District Gazette by the
Collector. Ordinarily they are being made once in thirty years. The Standing
Orders of the Board of Revenue contain the basis, rates and methodsjof
assessment. Standing Order 1, Rule 3 states that the assessment fixed
represents the commuted value of the Government's share of the surface
cultivation. The State Government will fix the period of settlement and during
the currency of the period no revision of assessment is possible. Baden Powell
in his work Land Systems in British India,, Volume III, at pages 106 to 107
says:

Though the zamindari system was introduced by Regulation XXV of 1802 no
general Revenue: Act exists ; nor has the ryotwari system ever been
established by legislative enactment. Really the StandingOrdersof the Board
are the land Revenue Code of this province and no one can thoroughly master
the revenue administration without studying these in detail.

4\. The assessment of land revenue by periodical settlements contemplated by
the Board's Standing Orders is thus a part of the system on which the ryotwari
pattadar was allowed to have the land.

5\. From very early times land revenue was the most recognised item of revenue
for the State. Mr. Soundararaja lyengar in his book "Land Tenures in Madras
Presidency" points out at page 11, after referring to the ancient Hindu
Scriptures and Smrithis, that the ancient lawgivers have laid down most
distinctly that the sovereign is entitled to a share of the produce on the
land for protecting the life, the liberty and the property of the people under
his charge. Reference has also been made by the learned author at page 151 of
his work that according to the Tamil classics land revenue amounting to 1/6th
or a sixth of the produce was levied by the king payable either in money or in
kind at the option of the farmer. There has been a controversy as to whether
the land revenue collected by the State was in the nature of rent or tax. For
the purpose of the present case it is unnecessary to go into that question as
the learned Advocate-General who represented the State invited us to proceed
on the footing of its being a tax.

6\. In all countries it has long been recognised that the Sovereign is
entitled to-levy tax on all lands within its territory. Such a right is one of
the prerogatives, of the sovereign. That was also the position in England till
conflict arose between the king and the people and till it was put an end to
by the Bill of Rights William and Mary, Section II, Chapter II. In Attorney-
General v. Vilts United Dairies 37 I.T.R. 884 : 91 L.J.K. 897, Lord Justice
Atkin (as he then was) stated:

No power to make a charge upon a subject for the use of the Grown could arise
except by virtue, of the prerogative or by statute and the alleged right under
the prerogative was disposed of finally by the Bill of Rights. Though the
attention of our ancestors was directed especially to abuses of the
prerogative there can be no doubt that this statute declares the law that no
money shall be levied for or to the use of the Grown except by grant of
Parliament. We know how strictly Parliament has., maintained this right and in
particular how jealously the House of Commons has asserted its predominance in
the power of raising money. An elaborate custom of Parliament has prevailed by
which money for the service of the Grown is only granted at the request of the
Grown made" by a reasonable Minister and assented to by a resolution of the
House in Committee. By Constitutional, usages no money proposal can be altered
by the second chamber, whose powers are confined to acceptance or rejection.
Similar elaborate checks exist in respect to authority for expenditure of the
Public revenue, both in respect to obtaining the statutory authority to expend
money and to obtaining the executive acts necessary to place the money at the
disposal of the spending authority.

7\. It will thus be seen that it was as a result of the Bill of Rights that
the sovereign in England lost his prerogative right to levy a tax and that
after the Bill of Rights, taxation could be effected by a statute of
Parliament.

8\. But in India the prerogative right to tax was recognised in the Ruler and
there has been no abrogation of such a right as in England. In Bell v.
Municipal Commissioner for the City of Madras (1902) 12 M.L.J. 208 : I.L.R. 25
Mad. 457 at 482, Bashyam Iyengar, J., observed :

On the other hand it is probably true that the Grown has according to the
Common Law off India certain prerogatives which it may exercise in India
though not in England, notably the prerogative of imposing by an executive act
assessment on lands and varying the same from time to time

9\. To the same effect is the observation of Subramanya. Iyer, J., in
Madathapu Ramayya v. Secretary of State for India in Council (1903) I.L.R. 27
Mad. 386 at 388, which is in these terms:

Such imposition in the due exercise of the prerogative possessed in this
country by the Grown,, viz., that of exacting from a subject holding arable
land, the Crown's proper share of the produce thereof or the equivalent of
such produce, which is the modern land revenue. At page 396, Bashyam. Iyengar,
J., observed :

The right of the Government to assess land to land revenue and to vary such
assessment from, time to time is not...a right created or conferred by any
statute but as stated in my judgment in Bell v. Municipal Commissioners for
the City of Madras (1902) 12 M.L.J. 208 : I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457 at 482, it is a
prerogative of the Grown according to the ancient and Common Law of India. The
prerogative right consists in this, that the Grown can by an executive act
determine and fix the Rajabhogamtor the King's share in the produce of the
land and vary such share from time to time.

10\. That taxation is one of the prerogatives of the sovereign in this country
has been further stated in a decision in Kelu Nair v. Secretary of State for
India (1925) 49 M.L.J. 79 : I.L.R. 48 Mad. 586 at 590. It was held in that
case that the proprietorship of the ryotwari holder in his holding was subject
to the prerogative which the Grown has according to the Common Law of India of
imposing by an executive act assessment on land and varying, it from time to
time.

11\. There are therefore two aspects of the matter: (1) it is an inherent
feature of the ryotwari system that the Government has a share, and as stated
in Board's Standing Order 1, Rule 4, the assessment represents the commuted
value of the Government's share of the cultivaion and (2) the assessment is by
virtue of the prerogative right of the Government which under the law
obtaining in this country it always possessed. Such being the legal basis for
the assessment, the procedure adopted for the levy is what is contained in the
Board's Standing Orders. In Prasad Rao v. Secretary of State in Council (1917)
33 M.L.J. 144 : I.L.R. 40 Mad. 886 : L.R. 44 I.A. 166 (P.C.), the Privy
Council recognised that the incidents of the ryotwari tenure are governed by
custom and at page 897 observed:

The practice of the Government estates is to make periodical settlement with
ryots whereby the Government's share in the produce is commuted for a fixed
annual payment in assessing which the wet lands are separately classeified.
The annual payment is incapable of increase during the period for which
settlement is made.

12\. There has been statutory recognition of the incidents of the tenure, of
the right of the Government to levy and collect the assessment. Regulation
XXIII of 1802 provided for the establishment in each district of an office for
keeping the records in the "native" language relating to public revenue and
for preserving the same. The Preamble to that Regulation emphasised the
necessity to preserve records relating to assessment of revenue and of Public
demands. The Revenue Recovery Act II of 1864 which purported to consolidate
the laws for the recovery of arrears of revenue in India put the collection of
revenue on a statutory basis. Under Section 1 of the Act the landholder is
defined as including all holders of land under ryotwari settlement or in any
way subject to the payment of revenue direct to State Government. Section 3 of
the Act enacts:

Every landholder shall pay to the Collector, or other Officer empowered by him
to receive it, the revenue due upon his land on or before the day on which it
falls due, according to the kistbandi or other engagement, and where no
particular day is fixed, then within the time when the payment falls due
according to legal usage; provided that except where property is held under a
Sanad-i-Milki-yat-i-istimrar or other similar instrument it shall be lawful
for the Board of Revenue, by notification published in the District Gazette,
to alter and fix, from time to titne, the amount; of the several kists or
instalments, and the dates at which they shall respectively become payable.

13\. This provision is a charging Section as it imposes a liability on the
landholder to pay the assessment. Consistent with the nature and incidents of
the tenure the Section recognised the right of the Board of Revenue to alter
and fix from time to time the kists. The Act contains elaborate provisions for
the collection of arrears of revenue. Section 58 like the provisions of
Statute 2r, Geo. Ill, Chapter 70 (refer A d to in Ilbert's Government of
India, page 268) is a reminder of the origin of the land revenue assessment as
a prerogative right and precludes the Civil Court from taking cognizance of
any dispute as to the rate of land revenue.

14\. There have been a number of other statutes in Madras which recognised the
ryotwari assessment. Act XIV of 1.920 (Madras Local Boards Act) provides under
Section 79(1) for the annual rental value of property to be calculated on the
basis of the assessment. Madras Act XXVI of 1948 provides under Section 22 for
ryotwari settlement of the estate taken over by the Government on the basis of
the ryotwari settlements. Madras Act XXIV of 1954 and Act XXX of 1955 provide
for the levy of surcharge on the basis of land revenue.

15\. Under Article 266 of the Constitution all revenue received by the State
Government from part of the consolidated fund and monies out of this fund
could be appropriated in the manner provided in the Constitution. Article 202
provides for laying before the houses of Legislature a statement of estimated
receipts and expenditure for the state for every financial year. Artile 203
provides for the demands for grants and Article 204 provides for the passing
of an Appropriation Act in respect of the grants made and the amounts charged
on the consolidated fund. Land revenue to be collected would form part of the
estimated receipts under Article 202 and grants would be made for the excess
over the receipts and the Appropriation Act would put the grants on a
statutory basis. The collection of ryotwari assessment is thus brought before
the Legislature every year.

16\. In China Navigation Company v. Attorney-General L.R. (1932) 2 K.B. 197
the question arose as to whether the Crown in England was bound to afford
military asistance to British subjects in foreign countries. The plaintiffs
were a shipping company trading particularly in Chinese and neighbouring
waters, where their ships carried a large quantity of valuable cargo and
numerous passengers. At all material times the Chinese and neighbouring waters
were infected with pirates. The plaintiff company requested the Crown to
provide armed guards for their ships for protection against piracy. Armed
guards were provided for a time but later the Crown claimed that the supply of
armed guards would be continued only on condition that the cost was paid by
the shipping company. The plaintiff company paid the sums demanded but later
contended that the Crown was not entitled without the sanction of Parliament
to demand payment of the cost of such measures as providing armed guards, and
that they were under no obligation to make the payment for the use of the
Crown without statutory or other authority. They brought an action praying for
a declaration to that effect. The Court of appeal held that there is no legal
duty on the Crown to afford protection to British subjects in foreign parts
and that excepting so far as they are regulated by statute matters relating to
the army remain within the prerogative of the Crown which could not be
interfered with by the Courts and if in the exercise of such prerogative the
Crown agrees to afford military assistance on payment such stipulation is
perfectly valid. In regard to receipt of such monies by the Crown without
there being a lawful parliamentary enactment, Scrutton, L.J., observed at page
217 thus:

The financial side of the matter, the question of imposing a charge on
subjects without the consent of Parliament, is illuminated by two memoranda
from the Treasury produced to us during the second hearing. The first sets out
the way in which receipts for services rendered by the army and navy have been
dealt with during the last one hundred and twenty years. After much discussion
the system was put on a statutory footing by the Public Accounts and Charges
Act, 1891. Section 2 deals with all such receipts as appropriations in aid,
under the direction of the Treasury of money provided by Parliament for any
purpose and as such they are so applied and audited and dealt with. The
suggestion that such receipts are not authorised by Parliament disappears. The
second memorandum shows in detail in the case of a payment by the present
appellant company for services similar to those the subject of the present
appeal, the progress of the particular payment through the various revenue
authorities, till at last it is sanctioned as an appropriation in aid under
the head " Miscellaneous Receipts " by the Appropriation Act for the year, and
this is devoted to the relief of the sum voted by Parliament.

17\. I am therefore of opinion that the payment where made, is sanctioned and
controlled by Parliament in the Appropriation Act under the system of
appropriation in aid under the Act of 1891. Lawrence, L.J. refers to the
receipt of monies in such cases and states that all receipts in respect of the
army have to be applied as an appropriation in aid of the money provided by
Parliament for that service under Section 2 of the Public Accounts and Charges
Act, 1891, and have therefore to be brought in the army estimates. In practice
the Army Council submits its estimates to the Treasury which critically
examines them and after approval by the Treasury the estimates are submitted
to Parliament and may be discussed in Parliament before the granting of supply
and the passing of the Appropriation Act. His Lordship observes at page 235
thus:

The sums paid by the plaintiff company for the provision of armed guards on
its ship were included in the estimates for the years in which they were
received as an appropriation in aid, and were duly granted by Parliament as
part of the supply for the army for that year; they were subsequently passed
as proper receipts by the Comptroller and Auditor-General. In the face of
these facts it is difficult to see how the contention that the Crown has
levied money for its use without grant of Parliament, contrary to the Bill of
Rights can successfully be maintained.

Slesser, L.J., observed at page 240 in these terms:

Parliament on being shown that the Department requires to spend a certain sum,
but that receipts from fees, etc., will amount to a smaller sum, grants the
difference, together with authority to use the sum received from the fees, and
therefore the Department is limited to the gross expenditure from the sum
granted and the fees, and is financially in exactly the same position as if it
had asked Parliament for the whole sum and paid the fees into the Exchequer.

18\. It can therefore be said that the levy of assessment on lands has been
made by sanction of the Legislature and statutorily affirmed by the
Appropriation Acts. Thus, though in origin the assessment was on the basis of
a prerogative right it was recognised as lawful by custom and statutes, the
assessment procedure was codified, as it were, in the Boards Standing Orders,
and there was, therefore, a valid legal sanction prior to the Constitution for
the levy, assessment and recovery of land revenue.

19\. Explanation (1), Article 372(1) of the Constitution makes it clear that
the law in force referred to in the Article is Common Law as well as statute
law. Therefore unless there is some provision in the Constitution which makes
ryotwari assessment illegal, the law that previously existed in regard to it
will continue to be valid even after the Constitution. The only other relevant
Article is 265 which provides " No tax shall be levied or collected except by
authority of law". If the phrase "authority of law" is taken to mean statute
law Article 372 will not continue the old system of the levy of land revenue
which though legal was rot authorised by any statute. If on the other hand the
words "authority of law" includes Common Law as well, the system of land
revenue assessment obtaining in this State would continue to be a valid law.
In the Constitution the word "law" has been used simply or in phrases such as
"according to law", "by authority of law" "by any law", "in accordance with
law", "in accordance with the provisions of any law" "by or under law", "under
the law", "under any law", etc. In the absence of any express definition the
context determines whether "law" connotes, onlv statute law or something
wider. Article 22(4)(b) which contains the words, "in accordance with law"
obviously contemplates statute law because it is followed by the words "made
by Parliament". Article 26(d) which uses the same phrase "in accordance with
law" has been held to mean common law. Vide Sirur Mutt Case1. The expression
"authority of law" is found in two Articles, viz., 31 (1) and 265. In Article
31(1) "law" obviously means statute law as indicated by clauses (3) and (4) of
that Article. As regards Article 265 it is clear that the reference is not to
statute law alone. As stated already land revenue is one of the most important
items of revenue for a State, and the makers of our Constitution who should
certainly be presumed to have an intimate knowledge of the system and of its
basis on the sovereign prerogative, would have hardly contemplated that the
validity of the system should be nullified by restricting the scope of the
word "law", in Article 265 to mean only statute law.

20\. In P. J. Joseph v. Assistant Excise Commissioner A.I.R. 1953 Trav. Co.
146, it has beenfhsld that the word law in Article 265 is statute law. This
decision has been followed in State v. Heejal A.I.R. 1954 Raj. 283. The basis
of the decision of the Travancore-Cochin High Court is the decision in.
Attorney-General v. Willes'i United Dairies Ltd. (1922) 91 L.J. (K.B.) 897. As
pointed out already that decision was rendered as a result of the peculiar
constitutional position in England as a result of the passing of the Bill of
Rights which put an end to the prerogative of the Crown. As such this decision
cannot possibly apply to India where the] prerogative right included the right
to levy assessment on land.

21\. We are, therefore, of opinion that the levy, assessment and collection of
land revenue are 'not rendered illegal by reason of Article 265 as such levy,
assessment and collection were valid prior to the Constitution and they are
continued by the force of Article 372.

22\. Even if a different interpretation is to be given to Article 265, we
would hold that the Revenue Recovery Act II of 1864 furnishes the necessary
statutory authority. Under Section 3 of the Act the landholder (ryotwari
pattadar) is liable to pay the revenue due upon his land. It is further
provided in the Section that the Board of Revenue can by notification
published in the District Gazette alter and fix from time to time the amount
of the several kists or instalments and the dates at which they shall
respectively become payable. Further provisions in the Act relate to the mode
of recovery of arrears. Thus the liability and the mode of collection are
provided in the Act itself while the actual assessment with respect to the
lands is left to the periodical settlements by the Government.

23\. In Whitney v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue L.R. (1926) A.C. 37 at 52,
Lord Dunedin observed:

Now there are three stages in me imposition of a tax ; there is the
declaration of liability that is the part of the statute which determines what
persons in respect of what property are liable. Next there is the assessment.
Liability does not depend on assessment. That ex hypothesi has already been
fixed But assessment particularises the exact sum which a person liable has to
pay. Lastly, come the methods of recovery, if the person taxed does not
voluntarily pay.

24\. The 1st and 3rd stages in the above analysis are provided for in the
Revenue Recovery Act. The 2nd stage i.e., the actual assessment and rates of
tax are under Section 3 of the Act provided to be fixed by the Board of
Revenue. That is a matter of detail which the Legislature in its wisdom has
chosen to delegate to the executive. The liability to pay the tax is by virtue
of the charging Section 3 of the Act. In the words of Sargent L.J., quoted in
W.M. Cockerline & Co. v. Commissionerof In land Revenue (1926) 16 Tax. Cases
1, at 19 the liability is imposed by the charging Section viz., Section 38 of
the English Act. the words of which are clear. The subsequent provisions as to
assessment and so on are machinery only. They enable the liability to be
quantified and when quantified to be enforced against the subject, but the
liability is definitely and finally Sedbv the chargmg Section and all the
materials for ascertaining it are available Tmmedi ately In ryotwari
settlement the machinery for assessment is the Revenue Bird's" Standing Orders
and Section 3 of the Revenue Recovery Act recognises it The delegation of
actual assessment to the Board of Revenue is consistent with the nature and
history of the ryotwari tenure. In Syed Mahomed and Co. v. State of Madras it
has been held that it is open to the Legislature to delegate the power of
actual fixing of assessment to a subordinate authority. But the Rules as to
assessment under the provisions of Section 3(4) of the Madras General Sales
Tax Act were to be placed before the Legislature and they were to come into
force only after they were approved by a resolution of the House. As pointed
out already the levy of ryotwari assessment may be deemed to be placed before
the Legislature annullrv under Article 203 of the Constitution, and applying
the princinle of China Navigation Company, Ltd. v. Attorney-General L.R.
(1932) 2 K.B. 197, the actual rate of assement should be deemed to have been
approved by the Legislature.

25\. In Sutherland's "Statutes and Statutory Construction, volume, 1,1943
edition Article 318 (stating the American Law) is in these terms:

The delegation of rate-making authority to railroad and public service
commissions has been. uniformly sustained. Courts have frequently observed
that the task of rate-making require expertness, technical skill and constant
atteUonand thatit was obvious that Legislative were unable to discharge this
obligation directly. In all these cases, however, the legislative principle
was clearly understood, it frequently being a statutory adoption of Common Law
standars. For this reason, perhaps Courts have not hesitated to sustain
delegation couched in suchgeneralTerms Is fix resonalble rates or prevent
unfair discrimination. The use of delegated power in related fields of
monopoly, control and businesses affected with a public interest have been
sustained by the Courts It has been customary in all these cases to make the
delegation in general terms Yet almost without exception the delegations have
been held valid. This unanimity of decision may be expertness by the character
of the subject matter reprinted. On the other hand the decisions may be
explained by the Common Law origins of the principle of regulation, by the
historical experience with standards in this field, by the Court's own
knowledge of the legislative principle The decisions suggest that if the
legislative standard although expressed in genlral language implies a
determinate guide for legislative action the delegation is valid It is obvious
that standards seem more certain guide for regulation where there has been
prior experience than in new and experimental fields. Logically however, the
issue of power should not be determined by the antiquity of the regulation.

26\. Those observations are apposite to the present case.

27\. We are, therefore, of opinion that all the three stages of a valid
taxation laid down in Whitney v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue L.R. (1926)
A.C. 37, in regard to the levy as assessment and collection of land revenue
have statutory authority by reason of the Revenue Recovery Act II of 1864. We
answer the "question referred by holding that the levy and collection of land
revenue is legal under Article 265 of the Comtitution.

