

Allahabad High Court

Mahendra Radio And Television, ... vs State Bank Of India on 17 May, 1988

Equivalent citations: AIR 1988 All 257

Author: A Misra

Bench: A Misra

ORDER A.P. Misra, J.

1\. Defendants--applicants by means of this revision have challenged the order
dated 29th January, 1987, passed by the trial court by virtue of which part of
amendment to the written statement was rejected.

2\. According to the applicants as also referred to in the application for
amendment that later on it was found that by mistake the clause of specific
denial and admission of the facts of specific defence has not been mentioned
in the written statement, the written statement needs proper amendment; and
the proposed amendment does not change the nature of the suit but is essential
to elaborate the existing contention of the written statement. On the other
hand, on behalf of plaintiff-respondent it was urged that by means of proposed
amendment the defendants want to wriggle out of the admissions and therefore,
rejection of the part of the proposed amendment was justified and does not
call for any interference.

3\. The first leg of argument in this regard by the respondent is that the
earlier written statement did not specifically deny the averments made in the
plaint and thus under Order VIII, Rule 5, C.P.C. it shall be treated to be
admitted, and permitting now to amend the written statement would amount to
permitting the defendants to resile from the admissions made in the written
statement. Consequently, the defendants having admitted the revival agreement
of the alleged loan within period of limitation now by proposed amendment want
to deny, which would amount to withdrawal of the admission and it would
prejudicially affect the plaintiff and thus refusal of the proposed amendment
was justified.

4\. Normally, the Court does not interfere in revision from an order of the
subordinate court unless there is an error in exercise of jurisdiction by the
trial court. In the present case. I find the trial court has not given any
reasons for allowing part of the amendment and rejecting the other part. The
impugned order merely states that certain paragraphs of the proposed amendment
are allowed, while the other paragraphs are rejected. It is the duty of the
Court exercising judicial functions to give some reasons while disposing of
any matter. In this case, I find no reason have been given and thus it is a
case where the Court exercised its jurisdiction improperly, which requires
interference by this Court. One course open to this Court is to remand the
case, but since the suit is of 1984 and the stage of only amendment of the
written statement has reached, the remand would further delay the matter. It
is for this reason, I examined the matter after hearing learned counsel for
the parties at length and am disposing of the matter on the merits of the
amendment sought.

5\. I have perused the written statement and the proposed amendments. I find
amendments in the various paragraphs which have been refused would be
categorised under three heads, firstly, those paragraphs where earlier
specific denial was not there but merely referred as a matter of record were
sought to be amended by giving details; secondly, the execution of various
documents referred to in the plaint were alleged in the proposed amendments to
have been got in by the plaintiff on the blank papers; and, thirdly, the
denial by the defendants-applicants by amendment that the defendant never
executed any revival agreement of the alleged loan.

6\. Various paragraphs under the first head which are bulk of the proposed
amendment originally in the written statement merely referred as a matter of
record. It is on this basis that the learned counsel for the plaintiff-
respondent urged, under Order VIII, Rule 5, C.P.C. read with Section 58 of
Indian Evidence Act where allegation of fact is not specifically denied in the
pleading it should be taken to be admitted Order VIII, Rule 5. C.P.C. is
quoted below : --

"5. Specific denial-- (1) Every allegation of fact in the plaint, if not
denied specifically or by necessary implication, or stated to be not admitted
in the pleading of the defendant, shall be taken to be admitted except as
against a person under disability :

Provided that the Court may in its discretion require any fact so admitted to
be proved otherwise than by such admission.

(2) Where the defendant has not filed a pleading, it shall be lawful for the
Court to pronounce judgment on the basis of the facts contained in the plaint,
except as against a person under a disability, but the Court may, in its
discretion, require any such fact to be proved.

(3) In exercising its discretion under the proviso to Sub-rule (1) or under
Sub-rule (2), the Court shall have due regard to the fact whether the
defendant could have, or has, engaged a pleader.

(4) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under this rule, a decree shall be drawn
up in accordance with such judgment and such decree shall bear the date on
which the judgment was pronounced."

Under this every allegation of fact if not specifically denied or not admitted
in the pleading of the defendants it is deemed to be admitted except as
against a person under disability. However, this admission is to be drawn on
the final pleading between parties. If in a proceeding a party has not
specifically denied a fact in the plaint or not even denied by necessary
implication it may in a given case would be treated as admitted, but there is
a proviso to this rule. According to it, a Court may require any fact so
admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admission.

This clearly spells out, it is not the admission which in effect would be
treated to bind the party. Even if a Court could draw an inference of
admission, but in order to adjudicate effectively between the parties a
discretion has been given to the Court to ask the plaintiff to give further
evidence to prove his case and not only to rely upon such admission. An
admission under Order VIII, Rule 5, C.P.C. is deemed to be an admission, but
in effect it is not actual admission. Such an admission even does not create
any vested right in favour of plaintiff as to refuse amendment to the written
statement. Thus, where a defendant seeks clarification of stand in his written
statement where he missed to specifically deny a fact could not be said to be
such on which the Court should refuse. In view of this, the argument raised on
behalf of the respondent-bank is not sustainable.

7\. As aforesaid, Order VIII, Rule 5, C.P.C. is a guidance for drawing an
inference of admission, but proviso to this rule clarifies that the Court may
in its discretion require any fact so admitted to be proved, otherwise than by
such admission. Thus, admission, spoken under Order VIII, Rule 5, is not one
on which the plaintiff could rely which would bind the defendant or which
creates such right in favour of the plaintiff as to refuse amendment. This
does not give rise to the cause of rejecting the amendment.

8\. Admission can be by positive statement, by inference of circumstances, by
absence of denial. It is the first category of admission where a party
specifically admits a fact, which may in a given case be utilised by the other
party, that in case permitted to be withdrawn it would completely displace
that party from the position of advantage which it has achieved on account of
such admission. Other admissions as aforesaid even if under the law it could
be said to be an admission, it is always open to a party to explain such
admission and the Court permitting such amendment could not be said to be
acting beyond the scope of Order VI, Rule 17, C.P.C The scope under Order VI,
Rule 17, C.P.C. is that the amendment should be permitted for the purpose of
determining the real question in controversy between the parties. When a party
in the earlier pleading has not specifically clarified his pleadings on facts
and only facts are to be deducible by inference then if the proposed amendment
dispels that state of uncertainty and clarifies the stand, such ah amendment
should legitimately be permitted, so that dispute between the parties could be
adjudicated with precision. Thus, the contention of the learned counsel for
the respondent cannot be sustained. Admittedly, the various paragraphs under
the first head did not specifically give pleading with precision leaving the
matter to be deduced on the basis of records. In view of this, the trial Court
committed error in not allowing such amendment of these paragraphs. What has
been done in the proposed amendment is wherever the words "It is a matter of
record" are sought to be deleted and the words "The contents of paragraphs,
are not admitted" is sought to be incorporated. This is sought to be done in
consonance with the principle of Order VIII, Rule 5, so that at a later stage
while finally adjudicating the issue the suit on account of lack of specific
pleading the inference contrary to the case of applicant be not drawn. Thus,
the refusal of the trial Court of such amendment in these various paragraphs
was not justified.

9\. Coming under the second head I find the proposed amendment in the various
paragraphs incorporates in substance that he went on signing the document,
referred to earlier, on the various blank pro forma papers. In the proposed
amendment also as admitted in the original pleadings there is no denial of the
execution of the document, but only that those documents were signed on blank
printed forms. This could not be said to be such on which the applicant is
trying to withdraw from the admissions made earlier. Even in the original
written statement in paragraph 17, which has not been deleted the averment of
paragraph 17 of the plaint was denied. It was further stated; "The defendants
acknowledged their indebtedness only on paper............ the defendants went
on signing the documents as and when desired by the plaintiff in the hope and
in good faith that the plaintiff will keep its promise and cooperate with the
defendants and compensate for the losses incurred due to utter negligence of
their own." The later portion of paragraph 17 that the defendant went on
signing the documents as and when desired by the plaintiff, if it had been
clarified that the documents which are signed were on printed blank pro forma
then such an amendment could not be said to be one, which ought to be refused
Even a party making an admission has a right to explain his admission. In the
present case, even by the proposed amendment the defendant is not denying the
execution of the document, but is pleading by way of amendment that he did
sign on blank printed forms. It is for the applicants, therefore, in the
evidence to prove this and it would not be right for the Court to shut the
evidence of the applicant in order to prove its case. It would not be a case
which seeks to displace the plaintiff completely from admissions made by
defendant. The tenor of even original pleading was that he executed various
documents under pressure of assurance and thus it is not such a pleading on
which it could be said that if the amendment is granted it either prejudices,
brings surprise or displaces the plaintiff from the stage of the admission
made by the defendants. Thus, I am of the view that the proposed amendment
even under the second head which have been averred in the various paragraphs
should not have been refused by the trial Court. In doing so, it committed
jurisdictional error, which cannot be sustained.

10\. The main argument raised on behalf of the respondent was, the defendant
having admitted the execution of revival agreement of the alleged loan which
further extended limitation to the plaintiff-bank, now permitting the
defendant to deny this revival agreement would greatly prejudice the
plaintiff.

11\. Reliance for the purpose was made on the case Modi Spng. and Wvg. Mills
Co. Ltd. v. Ladha Ram and Co., AIR 1977 SC 680. It was held in this case,
where amendment seeks to displace the plaintiff completely from admissions
made by the defendant in the written statement, amendment should not be
allowed. In that case the trial Court rejected the application of the
defendant for amendment on the ground that the defendant wanted to resile from
the admissions made and by proposed amendment the repudiation of the clear:
admission is motivated to deprive the plaintiff of the valuable right accrued
to him and it is against law. This was upheld by the Supreme Court in the
aforesaid decision.

12\. On the other hand, learned counsel for the applicants relied on a case
Panchdeo Narain Srivastava v. Km. Jyoti Sahai, AIR 1983 SC 680, wherein it is
held :

"..... An admission made by a party may be withdrawn or may be explained away.

Therefore, it cannot be said that by amendment an admission of fact cannot be
withdrawn."

It was on this basis learned counsel for the applicants urged even if the
proposed amendments amount to withdrawal of admission the trial Court should
have permitted these amendments.

13\. Learned counsel for the respondent urged that since the decision of Modi
Spg. and Wvg. Mills Co. Ltd. v. Ladha Ram and Co. (AIR 1977 SC 680) (supra) is
6f three Judges while the decision in the case of Panchdeo Narain Srivastava
(AIR 1983 SC 680) (supra) is of two Judges this Court should follow the
earlier decision. This contention cannot be accepted. This should not be the
criteria on which this Court should follow and apply the law as laid down
therein. As far as possible attempt should be made by the Court to find pith
and by scrutinising the reasoning given in both the decisions and unless it
was overruled it would not be safe to follow on the principles as urged by the
learned counsel. In Javed Ahmad Abdul Hamid Pawala v. State of Maharashtra,
AIR 1985 SC 231, their Lordships of the Supreme Court held as follows : --

"The Supreme Court sits in Divisions of two and three Judges for the sake of
convenience and it may be inappropriate for a Division Bench of three Judges
to purport to overrule the decision of a Division Bench of two Judges. Vide
Young v. Bristol Aeroplane Co. Ltd., (1944) 2 All ER 293. It may be otherwise
where a Full Bench or a Constitution Bench does so."

It is significant to refer hereto the decision in Prakash Amichand Shah v.
State of Gujrat, AIR 1986 SC 468. In this case the question came up for
consideration, on account of a decision in the later case on the basis of
which it was argued that it amounts to overruling the earlier decision. The
relevant portion is quoted below : --

".........We have gone through these decisions carefully. Before embarking
upon the examination of these decisions we should bear in mind that what is
under consideration is not a statute or a legislation but a decision of the
Court. A decision ordinarily is a decision on the case before the Court while
the, principle underlying the decision would be binding as a precedence in a
case which comes up for decision subsequently. Hence, while applying the
decision to a later case, the Court which is dealing with it should carefully
try to ascertain the true principle laid down by the previous decision. A
decision often takes its colour from the questions involved in the case in
which it is rendered. The scope and authority of a precedent should never be
expanded unnecessarily beyond the needs of a given situation.

.......An inappropriate purpose for which a precedent is used at a later date
does not take away its binding character as a precedent. In such cases there
is good reason to disregard the later decision. Such occasions in judicial
history are not rare. The history or the law relating to the right of
labourers to strike in a factory is one such instance."

14\. Coming back to the decision of Panchdeo Narain Srivastav (AIR 1983 SC
680) (Supra) it is clear this decision has not overruled the decision of M/s.
Modi Spg. and Wvg. Mills Ltd. (AIR 1977 SC 680) (Supra). On the contrary it
was recorded : --

"This appeal neither calls for an elaborate judgment nor a detailed discussion
of the point involved in the appeal. We do not propose to give exhaustive
reasons in support of our decision for in our opinion decisions on the subject
are legion and we consider it unnecessary to refer to them in details."

In Panchdeo Narain Srivastava (supra) case the only amendment sought was that
earlier the plaintiff described himself as the son of uterine brother of Rama
Shanker Prasad, and by the proposed amendment the word "uterine" was sought to
be deleted. It is in this context the Supreme Court said that an admission
made by a party may be withdrawn. By means of amendment the plaintiff still
continues to be described as the brother of Ram Shanker Prasad but only sought
deletion of the word "uterine" before "brother". Even if plaintiff earlier
admitted himself to be the uterine brother such admission could not be such if
later deleted would deprive the plaintiff of the valuable right accrued to him
as was held in M/s. Modi Spg. and. Wvg. Mills Co. Ltd. (Supra). Thus, in
effect, there is no conflict in the two decisions of the Supreme Court. The
later decision of Panchdeo Narain Srivastava (supra) neither overruled the
earlier decision, nor laid down any principle contrary to the said decision
and the principles laid down in the earlier decision still continues to be the
good law as a precedent which is binding on this Court.

15\. The pith and substance of the principles laid down in the aforesaid two
decisions of the Supreme Court is that even by means of amendment an admission
could be permitted to be withdrawn in a given case if admission is not one
which deprives the plaintiff of the valuable right accrued to him. Thus, it is
only those admissions where valuable right has accrued to the plaintiff or an
amendment which introduces a new case and seeks to displace the plaintiff
completely from admissions made by the defendant the amendment should not be
permitted. However, where admissions are not such then permitting amendment on
the facts and circumstances of case could not be such which could give rise to
the other side a cause on which it should be refused.

16\. Coming to the present case under the third head the proposed amendment to
paragraph 18 of the written statement to the effect "the defendants never
executed any revival agreement of the alleged loan" is one if permitted it
would displace the plaintiff-bank completely from admissions made by the
defendants and it will deprive the plaintiff of the valuable right which has
accrued to it. But for this acknowledgement made earlier part of the claim
might become time-barred. Thus, on the perusal of the proposed amendments
referred to in various paragraphs which were refused by the trial Court I find
except for the amendment "the defendants never executed any revival agreement
of the alleged loan" referred to in paragraph 17 of the proposed amendment by
virtue of which the said words are sought to be introduced in paragraph 18 of
the written statement, rest of the proposed amendment, as aforesaid, are not
such which the trial Court should have refused. However, the trial Court
rightly refused the aforesaid amendment to paragraph 18 of the written
statement.

17\. In the present case, as aforesaid, the trial Court has not given any
reason for acceptance of some of paragraphs of the proposed amendment or for
refusal of other paragraphs. I find, that some of the paragraphs alleged were
identical to those paragraphs which were refused. Thus, the trial Court
exercised its jurisdiction illegally and improperly without giving any reason
and; therefore, the same cannot be sustained.

18\. This revision is partly allowed The impugned order dated 29th January,
1987, passed by the trial Court to the extent it refused amendment to the
remaining paragraphs except proposed amendment to paragraph 18 of the written
statement by virtue of which "the defendants never executed any revival
agreement of the alleged loan" was sought to be introduced is set aside and
the same stands allowed. However, refusal to amend paragraph 18 as aforesaid
was rightly refused. In view of the divided success the parties shall bear
their own costs.

