

Bombay High Court

Essdee Industries Through ... vs Esbee Electrotech Llp on 14 December, 2020

Bench: S.C. Gupte

    
    
    sat                                                                     32.wp 1217-2020].doc
    
    
                           IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                                   CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
                      Digitally signed
          Rajesh V.
                                         WRIT PETITION NO. 1217 OF 2020
                      by Rajesh V.
                      Chittewan
          Chittewan   Date: 2020.12.21
                      16:39:00 +0530
    
    
    
          Essdee Industries                                         ...Petitioner
                vs.
          Esbee Eectrotech LLP                                      ...Respondent
    
          Mr.Nikhil Wadikar i/b. Nandu Pawar for Petitioner.
          Mr.Hiren Kamod with Aditya Chitale, Nishin Shrikhande and Avinash Belge
          i/b. RKD Legal Services LLP for Respondent.
    
                                                     CORAM : S.C. GUPTE, J.
    

DATE : 14 DECEMBER 2020 Oral Judgement :

This writ petition challenges an order passed by the District Court at Pune on
an application of the Respondent/plaintiff for withdrawal of its suit filed in
respect of infringement of design as well as infringement of registered
trademark and passing-off of goods with liberty to institute two separate
suits, one for the alleged trademark infringement and passing off of goods,
and the other for the alleged design infringement.

2 The plaintiff's suit was a composite suit (i) for infringement of its
registered trademark as well as passing-off of goods by the Petitioner/
defendant as those of the plaintiff and (ii) for infringement of its
registered design. The cause of action in respect of infringement of its
trademark and passing-off of goods was clearly a separate cause of action from
that of the defendant's infringement of its registered design. These two
separate and distinct causes of action were combined by the plaintiff. The
defendant, in its written statement, took up a defence under Section 19 of the
Designs  1/7 sat 32.wp 1217-2020].doc Act, challenging the very registrability
of the plaintiff's design inter alia on account of want of novelty. After this
defence was raised, the plaintiff applied for withdrawal of the suit with
liberty to split up the causes of action in the suit and file separate suits
in respect of infringement of trademark and infringement of design.

3 The main opposition of the defendant to the impugned order permitting the
plaintiff to withdraw its composite suit with liberty to file two separate
suits, is that the trial court had lost seisin of the matter once a defence
was raised under Section 19 of the Designs Act. It is submitted that upon such
defence being raised, what the trial court has to do is simply transfer the
suit to the jurisdictional High Court by virtue of sub-section (4) of Section
22 of the Designs Act. Learned counsel for the Petitioner/defendant relies on
a judgment of Allahabad High Court in the case of R.N. Gupta & Co. Ltd. Jasola
New Delhi vs. M/s. Action Construction Equipments Ltd. Dudhola1 in support of
his case that the legislative intent behind Sub-section (4) of Section 22
implies that moment a defence referred to therein is raised, the jurisdiction
for deciding the suit vests with the jurisdictional High Court. Learned
Counsel for the Petitioner also relies on the case of Carlsberg Breweries A/S
vs. Som Distilleries and Breweries Ltd.2 decided by a Full Bench of Delhi High
Court in support of his submission that it is not permissible to split up the
cause of action as proposed by the Respondent herein.

4 Sub-section (4) of Section 22 of the Designs Act, 2000 is in the following
terms :

    
    
          1    2016(6)ADJ102
          2    AIR 2019 DELHI 23
    
    
                                                                                          2/7
     sat                                                                32.wp 1217-2020].doc
    
    
                "22. Piracy of registered design.--
    
    

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the second proviso to sub-section
(2), where any ground on which the registration of a design may be cancelled
under section 19 has been availed of as a ground of defence and sub-section
(3) in any suit or other proceeding for relief under sub-section (2), the suit
or such other proceeding shall be transferred by the court, in which the suit
or such other proceeding is pending, to the High Court for decision."

5 What this sub-section implies is that when a ground for cancellation of
registration of the design under Section 19 has been availed of in defence to
a suit complaining of piracy of a registered design, the suit has to be
transferred to the High Court for decision. (Such transferred suit, in the
case of a High Court having ordinary original civil jurisdiction, is required
then to be heard and disposed of by Commercial Division of that court under
Section 7 of Commercial Courts Act, 2015.) The sub-section does not imply that
immediately upon a ground, on which registration of the suit design may be
cancelled under Section 19, being availed of as a ground of defence, the court
hearing the infringement suit ceases to have jurisdiction in the suit. What it
implies is that the court, before which the suit concerning piracy of the
design has been brought, must not proceed to entertain the suit any further or
decide it; it must transfer it to the High Court, once any defence under
Section 19 is raised.

6 In the present case, the suit initially brought before the District Court
was a composite suit having two distinct causes of action, one for
infringement of a registered trademark and passing-off of goods by the use of
the same or a deceptively similar mark and the other for infringement of a
registered design used for manufacture of the product, which bears the  3/7
sat 32.wp 1217-2020].doc impugned mark. Had the plaintiff insisted on
retaining the suit as a composite suit involving both causes of action, there
is indeed nothing for the District Court to do except to transfer the suit to
this court under Sub- section (4) of Section 22. What the plaintiff instead
applied was for withdrawal of the suit. This is evidently having regard to the
defence raised in the suit by the Petitioner herein, namely, a ground under
Section 19 which called for cancellation of the plaintiff's registered design.
What the plaintiff proposed was to file two separate suits for these two
separate causes of action and with a view to enable it to do so, it sought
withdrawal of the composite suit. The District Court surely retained its
seisin of the suit to the extent of such application for withdrawal. In other
words, what the plaintiff proposed was not to go ahead with the hearing of the
suit in any way but to withdraw it having regard to the defence raised by the
defendant. It is preposterous to suggest that even such withdrawal cannot be
permitted by the District Court and for such withdrawal, the plaintiff would
have to be driven to taking his suit before the jurisdictional High Court and
seek withdrawal from it and then file two separate suits involving two
separate causes of action.

7 The decision of Allahabad High Court in R.N. Gupta's case was in altogether
different circumstances. There, despite the defendant having raised a counter-
claim for revocation of the plaintiff's patent, on which the latter's suit was
resting, in the face of the proviso to Section 104 of the Patents Act (which
is in pari materia with Section 22(4) of the Designs Act), the trial court
proceeded to hear the temporary injunction application of the plaintiff. It
was under this circumstance and in this context that the High Court of
Uttarakhand in M/s. Lambda Eastern Telecommunication vs.  4/7 sat 32.wp
1217-2020].doc M/s. Acme Tele-Power Private Ltd. 3 made its observation, which
was referred to by the Allahabad High Court in R.N. Gupta's case. The
observation is to the effect that once such counter claim is presented, the
suit along with the counter claim cannot be heard any further by the trial
court; it, along with the counter claim, has to be transferred to the High
Court for hearing and decision. Despite having no authority to hear the suit
and the counter claim, the trial court in that case proceeded to hear the
temporary interim application of the plaintiff and that was not countenanced
to by the High Court of Uttarakhand. The observations in M/s. Lambda Eastern
Telecommunication (supra) have no application to the facts of the present
case. In the present case, as we have noted above, upon the ground of Section
19 being raised by the defendant as a ground of defence, the plaintiff applied
for withdrawal of the suit and not for prosecuting the suit any further.

8 The case of Carlsberg Breweries A/S (supra) decided by Delhi High Court also
has no application to the facts of our case. That was a case, where the
plaintiff had approached the court with a composite remedy of infringement and
passing-off of goods by use of the offending design. What the court laid down
in that case was that these two causes of action, namely, the cause of action
of infringement of a registered design and the cause of passing-off of goods
by use of the same or deceptively similar design do not have to be split;
these causes of action arose out of the same subject matter and accordingly,
under Order 2 Rule 3, the plaintiff offered to exercise his option to
institute a composite suit. The court observed that the two causes of action,
namely, the plaintiff's claim for design infringement and his claim in the
passing-off action were not disparate or 3AIR 2008 UTTARAKHAND 38  5/7 sat
32.wp 1217-2020].doc dissimilar so that the court could not have tried them
together in one suit. The court observed that once a transaction of sale is
the same transaction, which would be in question in both causes of action,
namely, infringement of a registered design and passing off of goods, and
based on the same set of facts, common questions of law and fact arise in both
causes of action, there was no basis for splitting up the two causes of
action. Accordingly, the court answered the reference by holding that a
composite suit joining these two causes of action was maintainable. That a
composite suit for infringement of a registered design and passing-off of
goods by use of the same or deceptively similar design is maintainable and the
plaintiff is not expected to split up his suit into two separate suits is one
thing, and the Petitioner's argument here that the plaintiff would have to
somehow maintain its composite action continuing to combine the separate
causes of action of infringement of a registered trademark and passing-off of
goods, on the one hand, and infringement of a registered design used for
manufacture of the product, which bears the impugned mark, on the other, is
quite another. The case of Carlsberg Breweries (supra) cannot be cited to
support the latter proposition.

9 The District Court has rightly allowed the plaintiff to withdraw its suit
with liberty prayed for. The court has also considered the inconvenience
caused to the defendant on account of disposal of the composite suit, with the
prospect of having to face two separate suits, by ordering costs. Besides this
brief inconvenience, which is ordered to be compensated, there is no prejudice
suffered by the defendant by reason of the impugned order.

6/7

    
    
     sat                                                              32.wp 1217-2020].doc
    
    
          10           There is accordingly no merit in the writ petition. The petition
          is dismissed. No order as to costs.
    
    
                                                              (S.C. GUPTE, J.)
    
    
    
    
                                                                                   7/7
     

