

Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi

Evalueserve.Com P.Ltd, New Delhi vs Acit, Circle-8(2), New Delhi on 28
January, 2020

    
    
                                      1
    
    
       IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, DELHI 'I-1' BENCH,
                             NEW DELHI
    
          BEFORE SHRI N.K. BILLAIYA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER, AND
               SHRI N.K. CHOUDHARY, JUDICIAL MEMBER
    
                            SA No. 531/DEL/19
                                    &
                          ITA No. 5148/DEL/2017
                        [Assessment Year: 2011-12]
    
    Evalueserve.com Pvt Ltd          Vs.                The A.C.I.T
    A-47, Lower Ground Floor                            Circle - 8(2)
    Hauz Khas, New Delhi                                New Delhi
    
    PAN: AAACE 8014 E
    
     [Appellant]                                          [Respondent]
    
                    Date of Hearing             :   22.01.2020
                    Date of Pronouncement      :    28.01.2020
    
    
                    Assessee by :    Shri Salil Kapoor, Adv
                                     Ms. Ananya Kapoor, Adv
    
                    Revenue by    : Shri Dinesh Antil. Sr. DR
    
    
                                    ORDER
    

PER N.K. BILLAIYA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER, This appeal by the assessee is preferred
against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax [Appeals] - 19, New Delhi
dated 15.05.2017 pertaining to assessment year 2011-12.

2

2\. Ground Nos. 1 and 2 are general in nature and need no adjudication.

3\. Ground Nos. 3 to 15 relate to TP adjustment. The assessee prays for
exclusion of certain comparables.

4\. Ground No. 16 relates to calculation of assessee's PLI.

5\. At the very outset, the ld. counsel for the assessee stated that the
assessee contends for the exclusion of four comparables from the final set of
comparables. It is the say of the ld. counsel for the assessee that all the
comparables were considered by the Tribunal in assessee's own case in earlier
year. Copy of the order of the Tribunal was supplied.

6\. Per contra, the ld. DR strongly supported the findings of the TPO.

It is the say of the ld. DR that functional profile cannot be the same in two
cases and, therefore, the comparables used by the TPO are good comparables.

3

7\. We have given thoughtful consideration to the orders of the authorities
below. We have also perused the orders of the co-ordinate bench in assessee's
own case in ITA No. 1814/DEL/2017 dated 01.11.2019 for A.Y 2012-13 and ITA No.
6310/DEL/2012 and ITA No. 1466/DEL/2015 for A.Ys 2008-09 and 2010-11.

8\. The facts on record show that the appellant company carries out IT enabled
services in the form of research activities according to the terms of its
agreement with its AE. The research carried out by the assessee is driven by
business information, market research and intellectual property research.
Normally, the client executives operating from overseas formed an interface
between the client and the assessee and the deliverable was typically in the
form of research report that is forwarded directly to the client under the
supervision and post a quality assurance by the AEs. Reports and research
studies prepared by the assessee are owned by the clients only. Operations of
the assessee primarily comprised of the following segments:

    
    
         a)    Business information
    
         b)    Investment research and financial analytics
    
         c)    Market research
    
         d)    Intellectual Property
                                            4
    
    
    

9\. The international transactions entered into during the year are:

    
    
    (a)      Provision of services - Back Office
             Operations [research services]              Rs. 1,29,00,46,963/-
    
    (b)      Cost reimbursement received/
             Receivable                               Rs.      2,44,47,940/-
    
    
    
    

10\. TNMM was taken as the most appropriate method and assessee's profit level
indicator was taken at 17.65% and arithmetic mean of comparables was 14.38%.
The TPO was not satisfied with the comparables used by the assessee and after
considering the objections regarding comparables and their margin
calculations, the following set of comparables were taken by the TPO for
determination of ALP:

    
    
    Sl. No Name of the Company                               OP/OC
    
         1    Accentia Technologies Ltd                      29.18%
    
         2    Acropetal Technologies Limited (Segment)       14.36%
    
         3    e4e Healthcare Business Services Pvt Ltd        9.77%
    
         4    Eclerx Services Ltd                            56.82%
    
         5    ICRA Techno Analytics Limited (Segment)        25.24%
    
         6    Infosys BPO Ltd                                17.86%
         7    Jindal intellicom Ltd.                         13.70%
    
         8    TCS E-serve Limited                            69.31%
                           AVERAGE                           29.53%
                                            5
    
    
    

11\. Accordingly, ALP and adjustment was computed as under:

Operational cost 1,164,795,745 Arm's Length Price at a Margin of29.53%
1,508,759,928 Price Received 1,340,917,228 105% of the Price Received
1,407,963,089 Proposed Adjustment ii/s 92CA 167,842,700

12\. The assessee agitated the matter before the ld. CIT(A) but without any
success.

13\. Before us, the ld. counsel for the assessee stated that she wants the
following four comparables to be excluded:

    
    
            (i)     Accentia Technologies Ltd
    
            (ii)    Infosys BPO Ltd
    
            (iii)   TCS E-serve Limited
    
            (iv)    Eclerx Services Ltd
                                           6
    
    
    

14\. It is the say of the ld. counsel for the assessee that all these
companies were excluded by the co-ordinate bench in assessee's own case in A.Y
2012-13.

15\. We find force in the contention of the ld. counsel for the assessee. The
relevant findings of the co-ordinate read as under:

"i) Accentia Technologies Ltd.

8\. This comparable chosen by the TPO was objected by the assessee before the
TPO on the ground that, firstly, it is functionally not similar; secondly,
presence of IPRs, thirdly, extraordinary event of acquisition of a software
development company during the financial year 2011-12; and lastly, there are
no segmental details. This company is into medical transcription, medical
billing, medical coding, claims processing and software development
implementation services. Ld. TPO held that since the comparables chosen by him
are providing ITeS services similar to the assessee and under TNMM brought
comparability has to be seen, therefore it is a fit comparable. He observed
that, this company is into health care receivable cycle management, which is
pre-dominantly under ITES. The entire functions of medical transcription,
coding billing and collection is one complete segment and all these various
specific segments are closely related to each other. As far as developing of
proprietary software products, TPO observe that there is no  7 reference of
any revenue from the software products in the annual report. Thus, he held
that same is a good comparable.

8.1 Before us the Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that from the perusal
of the P & L Account it can be seen that revenue's from operations are from
different sources i.e. medical transcription, billing and coding and EMR and
SAAS. However, the annual report states that it has only one segment. Thus,
there is no segmental detail for various streams of revenue. She further
submitted that this company is into medical transcription, coding and medical
billing services and also software development services and also has developed
its own products such as, IMTAS, IRTS, IAMS, IPMS. Apart from that, she
submitted that there were extraordinary events in A.Y. 2012-13 in the form of
amalgamation and acquisition, therefore, due to such extraordinary event this
comparable cannot be included in this year. She further pointed out that in
the assessment year 2008-09, the Tribunal in assessee's own case following the
principle laid down by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs.
Ameriprise India (P) Ltd. in ITA No. 461/2016 has upheld the exclusion of the
said comparable. Apart from that, the Tribunal in case of sister concern,
i.e., Evalueserve.com SEZ which has a similar function profile has directed to
exclude the said comparable; and this judgment of the Tribunal has been upheld
by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court also.

8

8.2 On the other hand, Ld. CIT-DR strongly relied upon the order of
authorities below and submitted that the activities carried out by Accentia
Technologies Ltd. is nothing but ITeS services and all the three functions are
inter related and therefore, no separate segment is required to be seen. Under
the TNMM, if a comparable company is carrying out similar functions which are
in the category of ITeS, then same cannot be excluded on such minute
functional difference. He submitted that assessee is also rendering KPO
services through professionals and therefore, Accentia technologies Ltd. which
is into health care and KPO therefore, it is a good comparable.

9\. We have heard the rival submissions and also perused the relevant finding
given the impugned orders as well as the material referred before us. Accentia
Technologies Ltd. is a company which is providing medical transcription
services which encompasses process of prescribing or converting voice recorded
reports as detected by physicians or other health care professionals who vet
the actual transcription. Apart from that it is providing medical coding,
billing and collection services. Medical coding is related to procedures of
financial assessment which help insurance companies and Government companies.
Medical billing is described as medical practice management which involves
bill on insurance companies by hospitals for on behalf of the personnel for
medical care expenses, which are majorly from US markets. No doubt Eclerx is
providing kind of ITeS services which requires special skills,  9 but what is
relevant to analyse is the nature of business and the functions carried out
for earning the revenue and profitability. Highly specialized and skilled
services definitely have higher profitability. Further assets deployed in the
form of human resources and other tangible and intangible and risks undertaken
also impacts the margins. Apart from that, from the perusal of the annual
accounts of the said company it is seen that it has shown revenues from
various operations separately, like from billing, coding, medical discrete
reportable transcription and medical transcription. However, for various
streams of income there are no segmental details or segmental account. In fact
it has been reported that there is only one segment called as health care
receivable management. As pointed out by the Ld. Counsel this company is also
into software development services and also own proprietary products like
IMTAS, IRTS, IAMS, IPMS, which is used for various functions. Due to these
factors and comparison of functional profiles, the Tribunal in assessee's own
case for A.Y. 2008-09 has directed to exclude this company. Further, in this
year there was acquisition of software development company namely, Medex
Healthcare Global which is into development of software related to EMR and
SAAS.

9.1 Other important fact is that the Tribunal in the case of sister concern,
i.e. Evalue SEZ which is having identical functional profile has directed to
exclude the said comparable after observing as under :-

10

"11. We have carefully considered the rival contentions as well as perused the
annual accounts of the comparables. At page No. 1172, we have perused schedule
10 of the notes on account wherein it has mentioned that w.e.f. 01.04.2008 a
company which was engaged in the business of medical transcription and coding
has been amalgamated with the comparable. It is further stated figures for
this year are related to amalgamating company also. The profit and loss
account of the comparable shows that sales and services of the company are
according to Schedule No. 8. There is no change in the income segment of the
assessee after amalgamation as amalgamating company was also having the same
business, hence, there is no impact of amalgamation on the company with
respect to functions performed. Therefore, merely there is an amalgamation
during the year it cannot be excluded as comparable as it does not change the
functional profile of the comparable company. However, at page No. 27 the Ld
TPO has confirmed that this company is engaged in the business of healthcare
cycle management which comprises of medical transcription, coding and billing
and collection. The medical transcription business requires special skill and
also employs medical professional who finally vet the actual transcription.
Further medical coding is related to procedure of financial assessment.
Medical billing is maintenance of financial accounts on insurance company etc
for the purposes of recovery of sums by Doctors. Therefore, medical
transcription is a service which requires employment of medical professional
also. However, the  11 medical coding the billing may not require higher
technical skill. In annual report the company has mentioned that it has only
one segment and therefore it does not have segmental results pertaining to
medical transcription vis-a-vis coding and billing activity. According to us
the medical transcription itself cannot be said to be comparable with the
functions performed by the assessee. However, the medical coding and billing
activities are similar to the functions performed by the assessee. But, in
absence of the segmental accounts with respect to medical coding and billing
activites this comparable cannot be included. Hence, TPO is directed to
exclude it."

9.2 This decision of the Tribunal has also been upheld by the Hon'ble High
Court. Since functional profile and other comparability factors of the
assessee as well as comparable company Accentia Technologies Ltd. remains the
same, therefore, we do not find any reason deviate from earlier year orders of
the Tribunal as well as the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court. Accordingly,
Accentia Technologies Ltd. is directed to be excluded.

Infosys BPO Ltd.

14\. Regarding this comparable, TPO has rejected all the contention of the
assessee that this company has high brand value and intangibles and it is a
giant company in terms risk profile and nature of services and held that,
since it is also into providing ITeS same should be included.

12

15\. After hearing both the parties, we find on perusal of the material placed
on record that Infosys is not only high turnover company, but also has a high
brand value and intangibles as compared to the assessee which has very
insignificant intangibles. Apart from that, Infosys in terms of risk profile,
skill, nature of services, revenue, and ownership of brand proprietary
products clearly outweighs the FAR analysis comparison with the assessee.
Because of these factors, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in several decisions has
held that giant companies like Infosys and Wipro cannot be compared with low
risk or capital service provider. The lists of said judgment are as under:-

1) Delhi High Court-PCIT vs. Oracle (OFSS) BPO Services P. Ltd. ITA No.
124/2018)

2) Delhi High Court-PCIT vs. New River Software Services P. Ltd. (ITA No.
924/2016) order dated 22.08.2017-

3) Delhi High Court-CIT vs. Agnity India Technologies P. Ltd. (2013) 219
taxman 26 (Del)

4) Delhi High Court-CIT vs. Agnity Indian Technologies P. Ltd. (ITA No.
447/2018)

5) Delhi High Courtin PCIT vs. Evalueserve SEZ (Gurgaon) P. Ltd. ITA No.
241/2018 order dated 26.02.2018

6) Delhi High Courtn in PCIT vs. Evalueserve SEZ (Gurgaon) P. Ltd. ITA No.
948/2018 order dated 29.08.2018.

13

15.1 From the perusal of the annual report of the said company it is seen that
it is amongst the top ten BPO of the country and has around 18,383 employees
with huge advertisement expenditure and marketing of Rs. 8.73 crores as
compared to the assessee which has 1163 employees and undertakes no such
expense; and the turnover of Infosys is more than Rs.1312 crores as compared
to assessee's turnover which is at Rs. 144 crores. Further, in assessee's own
case as well as in the case of sister concern, this Tribunal has excluded
Infosys BPO based on these comparability factors. Looking to the scale of
operations and presence of high valuable assets both tangible and intangible,
this company has consistently been held to be incomparable with captive
service provider companies. Accordingly, we direct the exclusion of this
comparable.

vi) TCS E-Serve Ltd.

16\. The TPO has included this comparable holding that it carries out the
function of ITES and high turnover and brand value is not relevant factor and
brand expenses is only Rs. 3.67 crores.

17\. After hearing both the parties and perusal of material placed on record,
we find that TCS E-serve Ltd. like Infosys BPO is a giant company which has
high brand value and intangibles and in terms of risk profile, skill, nature
of service, revenue etc. this comparable has been rejected in various  14
judicial rulings. The turnover of TCS is more than Rs. 1578 crore and this
company is having huge assets and is under taking high risk which have direct
impact on turnover and in profitability. If a company is having huge asset
base, brand value, goodwill and presence in global market with significant R &
D, then it cannot be compared with a company which is purely captive service
provider in ITeS/BPO, having low risk and insignificant assets. Even the
deployment of human resources shows that TCS has 14,785 employees whereas the
assessee has 1163 employees. This factor itself shows that in the terms of
human resources, there is huge difference in the assets deployed. Now there is
latest judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court dated 24th July, 2019 in the case
of M/s. Avaya India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA no. 532/2019 which had
considered the comparability of TCS E-serve Ltd. and TCS serve International
Ltd. with the company providing ITeS services. The relevant substantial
question of law admitted by the Hon'ble High Court reads as under :-

"Whether the ITAT was justified in upholding the order of the TPO and the DRP
in not excluding M/s. TCS E-Serve Limited; M/s. TCS E-Serve International
Limited from the list of comparables for the purposes of determining the arms-
length price of the international transactions involving the Assessee?

17.1 Hon'ble High Court has dealt this issue in detail after observing as
under:-

15

"Analysis and reasons

15\. The above submissions have been considered. In a large number of
decisions this Court has emphasized, that for there to be reliable benchmark
studies for determining ALP not only the comparables have to be functionally
similar but should have similar business environment and risks as the tested
party. A detailed exposition of the legal position with specific reference to
Rule 10 B (2) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 is found in this Court‟s decision
in Chryscapital Investment Advisors (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT 376 ITR 183
(Del) as under:

"30. The reasoning adopted in various judgments noticed above, shows that
functional analysis seeks to identify and compare the economically significant
activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used and risks assumed by
the parties to the transaction. Quantitative and qualitative filters/criteria
have been used in different cases to include or exclude comparables. The
intuitive logic for excluding big companies from the list of comparables while
undertaking the FAR analysis of a smaller company is attractive, given that
such big companies provide services to diverse clientele, perform multifarious
functions, often assume risks and employ intangible assets which are specially
designed, unlike in the case of smaller companies. The bigger companies have
an established reputation in the segment, are well known and employ economies
of scale to a telling end. On the other hand, these obvious - and apparent
features should not blind the TPO from the obligation  16 to carry out the
transfer pricing exercise within the strict mandate of Section 92 C and Rules
10-A to 10-E.

31\. Arm's length price determination, in respect of an international
transaction has necessarily to confirm to the mandate of Rule 10B. In this
case, the method followed for determining the arm's length price of the
international transaction adopted by the assessee and the revenue is the TNMM.
The comparability of an international transaction with an uncontrolled
transaction has, in such cases, to be seen with reference to the functions
performed, taking into account the assets employed or to be employed and the
risks assumed by the respective parties to the transaction as per rule
10B(2)(b). The specific characteristics of the property transferred or
services provided (contemplated by Rule 10B(2)(a)) in either transactions may
be secondary, for judging comparability of an international transaction in the
TNMM, because the price charged or paid for property transferred or services
provided and the direct and indirect cost of production incurred by the
enterprise in respect of property transferred or services provided go into
reckoning comparability analysis in the transaction methods, i.e. the
comparable uncontrolled price, resale price and cost plus whereas the profit
based method such as transactional net margin method takes into account, the
net margin realised. In TNMM, comparability of an international transaction
with an uncontrolled transaction is to be seen with reference to functions
performed as provided in sub-rule (2)(b)  17 of rule 10B read with sub-rule
(1)(e) of that rule after taking into account assets employed or to be
employed and the risks assumed by the respective parties to the transaction.
As noticed earlier, Rule 10B(3) mandates that a given or select uncontrolled
transaction selected in terms of Rule 10B(2) "shall be comparable to an
international transaction" if none of the differences, if any, between the
compared transactions, or between enterprises entering into such transactions
"are likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid or the
profit arising from such transaction in the open market or reasonably accurate
adjustment can be made to eliminate the effects of such difference."

32\. Now, the sequitur of Rule 10B (2) and (3) is that if the comparable
entity or entity‟s transactions broadly conform to the assessee‟s functioning,
it has to enter into the matrix and be appropriately considered. The crucial
expression giving insight into what was intended by the provision can be seen
by the use of the expression: "none of the differences, if any, between the
transactions being compared, or between the enterprises entering into such
transactions are likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid
in, .. such transactions in the open market." The other exercise which the TPO
has to necessarily perform is that if there are some differences, an attempt
to "adjust" them to "eliminate the material effects" should be made:

18

"(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
effects of such differences."

33\. Such being the case, it is clear that exclusion of some companies whose
functions are broadly similar and whose profile - in respect of the activity
in question can be viewed independently from other activities- cannot be
subject to a per se standard of loss making company or an "abnormal" profit
making concern or huge or "mega" turnover company. As explained earlier, Rule
10B (2) guides the six methods outlined in clauses (a) to (f) of Rule 10B(1),
while judging comparability. Rule 10B (3) on the other hand, indicates the
approach to be adopted where differences and dissimilarities are apparent.
Therefore, the mere circumstance of a company

\- otherwise conforming to the stipulations in Rule 10B (2) in all details,
presenting a peculiar feature - such as a huge profit or a huge turnover, ipso
facto does not lead to its exclusion. The TPO, first, has to be satisfied that
such differences do not "materially affect the price...or cost"; secondly, an
attempt to make reasonable adjustment to eliminate the material effect of such
differences has to be made.

34\. The Court is also aware of the factors mentioned in Rule 10B (2), i.e.
characteristics of the service provided, functions performed taking into
account assets employed or to be employed and the risks assumed, by the
respective parties to the transactions; contractual terms of the transactions
indicating how the responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be  19 divided
between the respective parties to the transactions; conditions prevailing in
the markets in which the respective parties to the transactions operate,
including the geographical location and size of the markets, the laws and the
Government orders in force; costs of labour and capital in the markets,
overall economic development and level of competition and whether the markets
are wholesale or retail. These elements comprehend the similarities and
dissimilarities; clause (f) of Rule 10C(2) specifically provides that "the
extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to account for
differences, if any, between the international transaction or the specified
domestic transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transaction or between
the enterprises entering into such transactions and the nature, extent and
reliability of assumptions required to be made in application of a method"
have to be taken into consideration by the TPO.

36\. This Court holds that in the facts of the present case, the assessee was
incorrect, both in its reliance placed upon previous years‟ data as well as
the manner of such reliance. First, the assessee‟s justification for relying
on such data is the volatility in the comparables‟ profit margins and the
consequent inability to transact at a consistent ALP. However, this is not
warranted herein. Whilst there may be a wide fluctuation in the profit margins
of comparables from year-to- year, this by itself does not justify the need to
take into account previous years‟ profit margins. The transfer pricing  20
mechanism provided in the Act and the Rules prescribes that while determining
the ALP, the arithmetic mean of all comparables is to be adopted. This is to
offset the consequence of any extreme margins that comparables may have and
arrive at a balanced price. Similarly, the wide fluctuations in profit margins
of the same entity on a year-to-year basis would be offset by taking the
arithmetic mean of all comparables for the assessment year in question. In any
case, in the event that the volatility is on account of a materially different
aspect incapable of being accounted for, the analysis under would Rule 10B (3)
would exclude such an entity from being considered as a comparable. Secondly,
as regards the manner of using previous years‟ data, the assessee has taken
the arithmetic mean of the comparables‟ profit margins for the assessment year
in question and two previous years. This Court disagrees. The proviso to Rule
10B(4), read with the sub-rule, itself indicates that the purpose for which
previous years data may be considered is - analysing the comparability of an
uncontrolled transaction with an international transaction. It does not
prescribe that once an uncontrolled transaction has been held to be a
„comparable‟, in order to obviate an apparent volatility in the data, the
arithmetic mean of three years (the assessment year in question and two
previous years) may be taken. That would amount to assigning equal weight to
the data for each of the three years, which is against the mandate of Rule
10B(4). The use of the word "shall" in Rule 10B(4) and, noticeably, "may" in
the proviso, implies that the relevant  21 assessment year‟s data is of
primary consideration, as opposed to previous years‟ data.

39\. This Court proceeds on the basis that there is sufficient guidance and
clarity in Rule 10B on the principles applicable for determination of ALP.
These include the various factors to be taken into consideration, approach to
be adopted (functions performed, taking into account risks borne and assets
employed, size of the market, the nature of competition, terms of labour,
employment and cost of capital, geographical location etc). The extent of
accurate adjustments possible, too, is a factor to be considered. Rule 10B (3)
then underlines what the ALP determining exercise entails, if there are
dissimilarities which materially affect the price charged etc: the first
attempt has to be to eliminate the components which so materially affect the
price or cost. In other words, given the data available, if the distorting
factor can be severed and the other data used, that course has to be
necessarily adopted." (all emphasis in original)

16\. In Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT (2015) 377 ITR 533 this Court
further discussed Rule 10-B (2) of the IT Rules. This Court pointed out how
although both the Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) services and the
Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services fall within the broad definition
of ITES, companies engaged in KPO services cannot be used as comparables for
the TP study of a company engaged in  22 providing BPO services. In that
process, it was observed by this Court as under:

"20. In order for the benchmarking studies to be reliable for the purposes of
determining the ALP, it would be essential that the entities selected as
comparables are functionally similar and are subject to the similar business
environment and risks as the tested party. In order to impute an ALP to a
controlled transaction, it would be essential to ensure that the instances of
uncontrolled entities/transactions selected as comparables are similar in all
material aspects that have any bearing on the value or the profitability, as
the case may be of the transaction. Any factor, which has an influence on the
PLI, would be material and it would be necessary to ensure that the
comparables are also equally subjected to the influence of such factors as the
tested party. This would, obviously, include business environment; the nature
and functions performed by the tested party and the comparable entities; the
value addition in respect of products and services provided by parties; the
business model; and the assets and resources employed. It cannot be disputed
that the functions performed by an entity would have a material bearing on the
value and profitability of the entity. It is, therefore, obvious that the
comparables selected and the tested party must be functionally similar for
ascertaining a reliable ALP by TNMM. Rule 10B (2) of the Income Tax Rules,
1962 also clearly indicates that the comparability of controlled transactions
would be judged with  23 reference to the factors as indicated therein. Clause
(a) and

(b) of Rule 10B (2) expressly indicate that the specific characteristics of
the services provided and the functions performed would be factors for
considering the comparability of uncontrolled transactions with controlled
transactions. ......

30\. As indicated above, in order to determine the ALP in relation to a
controlled transaction, the analysis must include comparables which are
similar in all aspects that have a material bearing on their profitability.
Paragraph 1.36 of the "OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises and Tax Administrations" published in 2010 (hereafter 'OECD
Guidelines') indicates the "comparability factors" which are important while
considering the comparability of uncontrolled transactions/entities with the
controlled transactions/entities. Sub-rule (2) of rule JOB of the Income Tax
Rules, 1962 also mandates that the comparability of international transactions
with uncontrolled transactions would be judged with reference to the factors
indicated under clauses (a) to (d) of that sub-rule, which are similar to the
comparability factors as indicated under the OECD Guidelines. .....

36\. As pointed out earlier, the transfer pricing analysis must serve the
broad object of benchmarking an international transaction for determining an
ALP. The methodology necessitates that the comparables must be similar in
material aspects. The comparability must be judged on factors such as  24
product/service characteristics, functions undertaken, assets used, risks
assumed. This is essential to ensure the efficacy of the exercise. There is
sufficient flexibility available within the statutory framework to ensure a
fair ALP"."

17\. The above dictum was followed and reiterated in Avenue Asia Advisors Pvt.
Ltd. v. Dy CIT (2017) 398 ITR 320 (Del) where this Court, inter alia, observed
that "though in the TNMM method there is sufficient tolerance, mere broad
functionality is by itself insufficient."

18\. On the aspect of exclusion of comparables that have a high economic
upscale viz., Infosys, TCS and Wipro, particular reference may be made to the
decision of this Court in PCIT v. BC Management Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
where a particular reference was made to TCS E-serve as under:

"13. ...The third comparable that the AO/TPO excluded is TCS E-serve. The ITAT
observed that though there is a close functional similarity between that
entity and the assessee, however, there is a close connection between TCS
E-serve and TATA Consultancy Service Ltd. which was high brand value: that
distinguished it and marked it out for exclusion. The ITAT recorded that the
brand value associated with TCS Consultancy reflected impacted TCS E-serve
profitability in a very positive manner. This inference too in the opinion of
Court, cannot be termed as unreasonable. The rationale for exclusion is
therefore upheld."

25

19\. The same decision also noted that one reason for exclusion was the
"unavailability of the segmental data" for the above comparable.

20\. In M/s. Oracle (OFSS) BPO Services Pvt. Ltd. (decision dated 5th February
2018 in ITA 124 of 2018) while upholding the exclusion of M/s.Wipro Ltd. from
the list of comparables it was noted that the ITAT took into account the
Related Party Transactions („RPT‟).The filter adopted was to exclude
comparables with unrelated party transactions equal to or in excess of 75% of
their business. The ITAT did that on the basis that Wipro Ltd. had a
significant brand presence in the market and could, therefore, not be deemed
to be a comparable entity. This Court explained the RPT filter as under:

"The RPT filter, is relevant and fits in with the overall scheme of a transfer
pricing study which is premised primarily on comparing light entities having
similar if not identical functions. Therefore, if a particular entity
predominantly has transactions with its associate enterprise - in excess of a
certain threshold percentage, its profit making capacity may resulted in a
distorted picture, either way."

21\. A reference may next be made to the decision in The Principal
Commissioner of Income Tax-3 v. Evalueserve Sez (Gurgaon) Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
where a reference is made to the earlier decision to the BC Management
Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra). This decision dealt with the exclusion of three
specific  26 comparables, which have also involved in the present case namely
M/s.TCS E-Serve Ltd., M/s.TCS E-Serve International Ltd. and M/s. Infosys BPO
Ltd. This Court upheld the exclusion of all three comparables and in
particular since the entities had "a high brand value and therefore were able
to command greater profits; besides they operated on economic upscale."

22\. The Revenue‟s appeal against the same Assessee for AY 2011-2012 against
another order of the ITAT excluding TCS E- Serve International Limited,
Infosys BPO Limited from comparables met the same fate. In its decision dated
29th August, 2018 the Court referred to the earlier decision dated 26th
February, 2018 which again pertained to AY 2010-2011. Reference was again made
to the decision in BC Management Services Limited.

23\. It appears therefore that this Court has consistently upheld decisions of
the ITAT excluding both these very comparables. The ITAT itself appears to
have taken a consistent view in a large number of cases excluding these two
comparables and its decisions have been upheld by this Court. Illustratively
reference may be made to the decision of the Tribunal in Vertex Customer
Services India Private Limited v. DCIT (2017) 88 Taxmann.Com 286 (Del- Tri),
Stryker Global Technology Centre Private Limited v. DCIT (2017) 87 Taxmann.com
43 (Del-Tri), Samsung Heavy Industries Private Limited v. DCIT (2017) 84
Taxmann.com 154 (Del-Tri) and  27 Equant Solutions India Private Limited v.
DCIT (2016) 66 Taxmann.com 192 (Delhi-Tribunal).

24\. All of these decisions pertained to AY 2010-2011. What weighed invariably
is the fact that both companies had huge turnovers when compared to the tested
entity. Both entities had close connection of the Tata Group of Companies and
TCS E-Serve International had given a huge amount to TCS towards brand equity.
Further there was no segmental bifurcation between the transaction processing
and technical services. The assets employed by TCS E-Serve along with huge
intangibles in the form of brand value were found to have a definite
considerable effect on its PLI. These factors vitiated its comparability under
the FAR analysis with the tested company, which could be a capital service
provider without much intangible and risks.

25\. In this context it requires to be noted that the ITAT also referred to
the decision of this Court CIT v. Agnity India Technologies Private Limited
(2013) 36 Taxmann.com 289.

26\. The Court may also note that the Karnataka High Court has in PCIT v.
Softbrands (2018) 406 ITR 513 (Kar) noted as under:

"48. The Tribunal of course is expected to act fairly, reasonably and
rationally and should scrupulously avoid perversity in their Orders. It should
reflect due application of mind when they assign reasons for returning the
particular findings.

28

49\. For instance, while dealing with comparables of filters, if unequals like
software giant Infosys or Wipro are compared to a newly established small size
Company engaged in Software service, it would obviously be wrong and perverse.
The very word "comparable" means that the Group of Entities should be in a
homogeneous Group. They should not be wildly dissimilar or unlike or poles
apart. Such wild comparisons may result in the best judgment assessment going
haywire and directionless wild, which may land up the findings of the Tribunal
in the realm of perversity attracting interference under section 260-A of the
Act."

27\. There is merit in the contention of the Assessee that the scale of
operations of the comparables with the tested entity is a factor that requires
to be kept in view. TCS E-Serve has a turnover of Rs.1359 crores and has no
segmental revenue whereas the Assessee's entire segmental revenue is a mere 24
crores. As observed by this Court in its decision dated 5th August 2016 in ITA
417/2016(PCIT v. Actis Global Services Private Limited) "Size and Scale of
TCS‟s operation makes it an inapposite comparable vis-a- vis the Petitioner."
As already pointed out earlier there is a closer comparison of TCS E-Serve
Limited with Infosys BPO Limited with each of them employing 13,342 and 17,934
employees respectively and making Rs.37 crores and Rs.19 crores as
contribution towards brand equity. When Rule 10(B) (2) is applied i.e. the FAR
analysis, namely, functions performed, assets owned and risks assumed is  29
deployed then brand and high economic upscale would fall within the domain of
"assets" and this also would make both these companies as unsuitable
comparables.

28\. The Director's report of TCS E-Serve Limited bears out the contention of
the Assessee that both entities have been leveraging TCSs scale and large
client base to increase their business in a significant way. The submission
that the two comparables offer an illustration of "an identical transaction
being conducted in an uncontrolled manner" overlooks the effect of the Tata
brand on the performance of the impugned comparables. The question was not
merely whether the margins earned by the Tata group in providing captive
service to the Citi entities were at arm‟s length. The question was whether
they offered a reliable basis to re-calibrate the PLI of the Assessee whose
scale of operations was of a much lower order than the two impugned
comparables. The mere fact that the transactions were identical was not, in
terms of the law explained in the above decisions, either a sole or a reliable
yardstick to determine the apposite choice of comparables.

29\. For all of the aforementioned reasons, the Court finds merit in the
contention of the Assessee that both the impugned comparables viz., TCS E-
Serve Limited and TCS E- Serve International Limited ought to be excluded from
the list of comparables for the purposes of determining the ALP of the
international transactions involving the Assessee and its AEs."

30

> 18\. Respectfully following the aforesaid principle of Hon'ble
> Jurisdictional High Court which applies in the present case also we direct
> the TPO to exclude the said comparable.

> 6\. Revenue."

> 7\. 7.5 When on similar facts and circumstances, Eclerx has been found to be
> incomparable with the assessee, which finding has been affirmed by Hon'ble
> Delhi High Court and there is no change in the material facts and
> circumstances in this year, then we do not find any reason to deviate from
> such finding. Accordingly, respectfully following the same, we direct the
> TPO/ AO to exclude Eclerx from comparability list. "

16\. As there is no change in the functional profile of the assessee, facts
being same, we do not find any reason to differ from the findings of the co-
ordinate [supra]. Accordingly, we direct the TPO to exclude the aforementioned
comparables from the final set of comparables.

Ground Nos. 3 to 15 and all other grounds relating to TP adjustment are
allowed.

17\. Next grievance relates to recalculation of PLI of the assessee by the
TPO.

31

18\. We find that a similar adjustment was considered by the co-

ordinate bench in assessee's own case in ITA No. 6310/DEL/2012 and
1466/DEL/2015 for A.Y 2008-09 and 2010-11. Relevant findings of the co-
ordinate bench read as under:

> "28. As relates to Ground No. 6, the Ld. AR submitted that TPO has erred in
> re-calculating Assessee's PLI from 20.17% to 16.17%. The same is not
> acceptable to the assesse as per the Ld. AR. The Ld. AR submitted that
> assesse in its TP Study at page 499, 485 of PB Vol. 2 has stated that Rs.
> 3,06,71,861/- was incurred on NOIDA unit where no operation was done but
> fixed cost had to be incurred. Hence, this is a non-operating expense.
> However, TPO stated that this is an operating expense because according to
> him the AE should have reimbursed this expense. The Ld. AR submitted that
> this is a non-operating expense as these expenses related to Noida unit
> which is not operational during the year. Further, the Ld. AR pointed out
> that EVS India had two STPI units in Gurgaon and Noida respectively.
> However, there were no operations in the Noida unit. The said unit was in
> the process of shutting down due to certain business reasons. EVS India did
> not undertake any operations in the Noida unit while it continued to incur
> the fixed costs pertaining to this unit. These costs relate to rent and hire
> charges, depreciation, insurance, security charges, repair and maintenance,
> etc. The Ld.

AR further submitted that the Assessee did not carry out  32 operations in the
Noida unit and the fixed costs incurred were unproductive costs and were not
billed to the parent company.

Thus, as the expenses incurred for the Noida unit were non-

recurring and extraordinary in nature, these expenses have been excluded from
the operating profit computation. This was mentioned in TP Study at page 499,
485. Also detailed submissions in this regard have been filed before TPO and
DRP.

The Ld. AR submitted that the comparables did not incur such extraordinary /
non recurring expenses and hence for a like to like comparison, it is
necessary to adjust such abnormal expenses from the computation of operating
profit. The Ld. AR submitted that the very basis of Transfer Pricing
Regulations is to undertake an exercise of comparability to eliminate
differences, if any, by a suitable adjustment. The Ld. AR relied upon Rule
10B(3) and Rule 10B(1)(e)(ii) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 as well as relied
upon Safe Harour Rules notified by CBDT, which is now incorporated as Rule
10TA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962. The said Rules state that "operating
expense"

means the cost incurred in relation to international transaction.

This fixed cost of NOIDA unit is not in relation to international transaction
as this year business and operations of the Assessee were carried out only in
the GURGAON unit and there were no operations in the NOIDA Unit and thus all
costs that were incurred in relation to the international transaction, were
incurred in the GURGAON unit. These fixed cost of NOIDA unit has no relation
to providing of services to the AE. The Ld. AR submitted that it specifically
refers to expenses incurred in  33 course of normal operations and excludes
extra- ordinary expenses and other expenses not relating to normal operations
of the assesse. Thus, a bare reading of Safe Harbour Rules states that the
intent is to exclude such extra-ordinary expenses which have no corelation
with day-to-day operations.

Further, the Ld. AR pointed out that TPO at page 29 states that these Safe
Harbour Rules are applicable and applies them when determining the PLI of the
comparables. Hence, the Ld. AR submitted that TPO must apply these Safe
Harbour Rules when determining the PLI of the Assessee also. The Ld. AR relied
upon the following judgments-

•Marubeni India (P.) Ltd. v. DIT 120131 354 ITR 638/215 Taxman 122 (Maq.)/33
taxmann.com 100 (Delhi)- Delhi High Court • CIT vs. Transwitch India (P.) Ltd
ITA No. 678/2012-

Delhi High Court • HOV Services Ltd. vs. JCIT [2016] 73 taxmann.com 311 (Pune
- Trib.) • HCL Technologies BPO Services Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT 120151 60
taxmann.com 186/69 SOT 571 (Delhi-Trib) • Dy. CIT v. Exxon Mobil Gas (India)
(P.) Ltd. [20151 152 ITD 220/120141 51 taxmann.com 256 (Delhi-Trib) •
Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [20121 21 taxmann.com 257/53 SOT 151
(Delhi-Trib)

29\. The Ld. AR submitted that Marubeni India (P.) Ltd. v.

DIT (2013) 354 ITR 638- Delhi High Court is directly on this issue wherein the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that expenditure for closure of its India units
would represent  34 abnormal cost and the same has to be excluded while
computing the operating margin of the assesse. In the case of Marubeni India
(supra), also the Revenue argued that since the assessee is a captive unit of
its associated enterprise, it was actually the latter that undertook the
entire risk. Even in assessee's case, the TPO states that assesse is a captive
unit and risk is with the AE and hence AE should bear this expense and
compensate.

However, this was rejected by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court.

The Ld. AR further submitted that the TPO cannot sit in the chair of the
businessman and decide how the business is to be conducted. The incurring of
expense are not doubted. TPO has not doubted that there is a material
difference on this account.

He has denied only on the ground that Assessee should have been compensated by
the AE without realizing that the assesse is not charging on cost plus basis.
The expense have been allowed u/s 37 of the Act and the limited reason for
denying a higher PLI by the TPO is that the expenses should have been
compensated by the AE, which is not correct. The DRP at para 11 has stated
that evidence was not made available. This is factually incorrect. All
evidences/bills/details/correspondence was made available to them and is also
being filed in Court today.

This argument of the Revenue that AE should have shared this cost, is again
rejected by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. Transwitch India
P. Ltd. ITA No. 678/2012.

30\. The Ld. DR relied upon the orders of the TPO/AO and directions of the
DRP.

35

31\. We have heard both the parties and perused all the relevant records. It
is pertinent to note that the DRP observed that the evidence was not produced.
But according to the Ld. AR, all evidences/bills/details/correspondence were
produced. Since the evidences have not been verified by the revenue
authorities, therefore, it will be appropriate to remand back this issue to
the file of the TPO/AO for adjudicating the issue in the right of all the
evidences produced by the assessee and after taking the same into
consideration, decide the issue as per fact and law. Needless to the say, the
assessee be given the opportunity of hearing by following principles of
natural justice. Ground No. 6 is partly allowed for statistical purpose."

19\. Respectfully following the findings of the co-ordinate bench, we direct
accordingly. Ground No. 16 is treated as allowed for statistical purposes.

Since the appeal has been decided, the stay petition becomes infructuous.

20\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee in ITA No. 5148/DEL/2017 is
partly allowed for statistical purposes.

The order is pronounced in the open court on 28.01.2020.

    
    
               Sd/-                                               Sd/-
               S/-                                              Sd/-
         [N.K. CHOUDHARY]                                   [N.K. BILLAIYA]
         JUDICIAL MEMBER                                  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 28th January, 2020.
                                            36
    
    
    VL/
    
    Copy forwarded to:
    
    1.    Appellant
    2.    Respondent
    3.    CIT                                                    Asst. Registrar
    4.    CIT(A)                                                 ITAT, New Delhi
    5.    DR
    
    
    Date of dictation
    

Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr.PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
website of ITAT Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk Date on which
the file goes to the Head Clerk The date on which the file goes to the
Assistant Registrar for signature on the order Date of dispatch of the Order

