

Madras High Court

M/S.Bajaj Auto Limited vs M/S.Tvs Motor Company Limited

    
    
            
    
     
    IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    
    ORDER RESERVED ON :   09-03-2016
    
    ORDER PRONOUNCED ON :   28-03-2016
    CORAM
    THE HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.SATHYANARAYANAN
    APPLICATION Nos.2647 and 4539 of 2015
    in
    C.S.No.979 of 2007
    M/s.Bajaj Auto Limited
    Bombay  Pune Road
    Akurdi, Pune 411 035
    State of Maharashtra
    rep. By S.Ravikumar				.. Applicant/Defendant in
    							   both Applications
    
    vs
    
    M/s.TVS Motor Company Limited
    Jayalakshmi Estates
    No.8, Haddows Road
    Chennai 600 006
    rep. By its Authorized Signatory
    Harne Vinay Chandrakant			.. Respondent/Plaintiff in

both Applications A.No.2647/2015 filed under Order XIV Rule 8 of Original Side
Rules and Section 151 of Code of Civil Procedure praying to eschew document
Nos.(a) to (m) as listed in the application.

A.No.4539/2015 filed under Order XIV Rule 8 of Original Side Rules and Section
151 of Code of Civil Procedure praying to eschew document Nos.(a) to (v) as
listed in the application.

    
    
    		For Applicant in both	:  Mr.T.V.Ramanujan
    		Applications		   Senior Counsel
    						   for Ms.S.Suba Shiny
    
    		For Respondent in	:  Mr.P.S.Raman
    		both Applications	 	   Senior Counsel
    						   for Mr.T.K.Baskaran
    
    COMMON ORDER
    
    

The defendant is the applicant in both applications and these applications
have been taken out to eschew certain documents marked as exhibits in the
suit, on the ground that the said exhibits are either inadmissible and/or in
respect of which, the mode of proof and/or relevancy is under serious doubt
and in spite of objections being raised at the time of marking the documents,
the same have been received in evidence as exhibits.

2.Since the points urged by the applicant/defendant in these applications, are
one and the same, the present applications are disposed of by this common
order. For the sake of convenience, the array of parties will be referred as
plaintiff and defendant in C.S.No.979 of 2007.

3.The facts leading to the filing of these applications, shorn off unnecessary
details, are as follows:-

3(i) The respondent/plaintiff has filed a suit in O.S.No.979 of 2007 against
the applicant herein praying for a judgment and decree to declare that the
respondent's product viz. TVS Flame, which uses the two spark plug with
screw fitted and three valves, does not infringe the Patent No.195904 of Bajaj
Auto Limited (applicant herein) and for permanent injunction restraining the
defendant from issuance of threats that the plaintiff is infringing the
defendant's Patent No.195904 and from interfering with the launch and sale of
the product TVS Flame, and also to direct the defendant to compensate the
plaintiff a sum of Rs.1 crore for the damages sustained by it on account of
unjustified threats made by the defendant.

3(ii) The applicant viz. M/s.Bajaj Auto Limited, has filed a suit in
C.S..No.1111 of 2007 against the respondent herein (M/s.TVS Motor Company
Limited), praying for a judgment and decree for permanent injunction
restraining the respondent/defendant therein from using the technology or
manufacturing/marketing FLAME Motorcycle or any other product that allegedly
infringes the applicant's (plaintiff therein) Patent No.195904.

3(iii) The facts relating to the litigations in the form of above said suits,
have been narrated in detail and in extenso in the orders passed in the
earlier round of litigations and reported in 2008 (36) PTC 417 (MAD.) (BAJAJ
AUTO LIMITED V. TVS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED) and 2009-3-L.W. 31 (DIVISION BENCH)
(TVS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED V. M/S.BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED), and therefore, it is
not necessary to restate the same once again except to deal with the
contentions put forth by the respective learned Counsel appearing for the
parties in these applications.

3(iv) In respect of an order passed by this Court in the earlier round of
litigation, the plaintiff filed an appeal in Civil Appeal No.6309 of 2009
before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. The Apex Court vide order dated
16.9.2009, had directed the hearing of the suit to take place on day-to-day
basis. Thereafter, a Division Bench of this Court vide order dated 4.10.2010,
made in O.S.A.Nos.132 and 133 of 2010, had directed the plaintiff to produce
evidence at the first instance, and thereafter, the documents that are brought
on record, have to be marked. This Court vide order dated 10.12.2014, had
directed the parties in both suits, to cooperate with the learned Master to
complete the trial on or before 30.4.2015.

3(v) On behalf of the plaintiff, Mr.Harne Vinay Chandrakant filed his proof
affidavit in lieu of chief-examination, as P.W.1 and according to the
plaintiff, the defendant raised very many objections and as a consequence, the
trial of the suit could not be proceeded with and therefore, the learned
Additional Master No.II directed the plaintiff to approach the learned Judge
for appropriate orders as to the objections raised by the defendant.

3(vi) In the above circumstances, the plaintiff filed A.No.413 of 2015 seeking
leave of this Court to file certain additional documents, and also took out
A.No.414 of 2015 praying for a direction for conducting the trial
expeditiously.

3(vii) The learned Judge by a common order dated 17.2.2015, has directed the
learned Additional Master No.II to mark the documents and record the
objections raised, leaving it open to be decided at the time of final
arguments before this Court, and also made it clear that the respective
learned Counsel appearing for the parties, shall furnish copies of documents,
clarifying the objections raised by the defendant, on or before 19.2.2015.

3(viii) According to the plaintiff, the said order has been complied with and
copies of all documents have been produced and the learned Judge after
satisfying with the same, has directed the learned Additional Master No.II to
proceed with the trial.

3(ix) P.W.1 examined himself in chief on 9.3.2015, before the learned
Additional Master No.II, and through him, Exs.P1 to P30 were marked and on
7.4.2015, Exs.P31 to P38 were marked and on 15.6.2015, Exs.P39 to P53 and one
material object (M.O.1) were marked and the marking of exhibits and material
object were made subject to objections raised by the defendant.

3(x) The defendant aggrieved by the order dated 17.2.2015, passed in A.No.413
of 2015, preferred an appeal in O.S.A.No.100 of 2015. The said appeal was
disposed of by a Division Bench of this Court, vide order dated 4.6.2015, and
it is relevant to extract the same as under:-

i) It is agreed that the question whether the documents brought on record are
admissible in evidence or not and whether this question should be decided at
this stage or at a later stage may be urged before the learned Single Judge
after marking of all documents, for which the suit will be placed before the
learned Single Judge.

ii) For marking the documents, the matter will be listed before the learned
Master on 10.06.2015 and with regard to admissibility, proof and relevancy of
the documents filed by the original plaintiff could be raised, the suit will
be listed before the learned Single Judge on 18.06.2015. Upon such decision
being taken by the learned Single Judge with regard to the stage at which
admissibility, proof and relevancy could be raised, evidence be recorded.
3(xi) The Division Bench has appointed Thiru C.Manickam, a retired District
Judge, as the Commissioner to record evidence and complete the process of
recording evidence within four months from the date of commencement of such
recording.

3(xii) The defendant, pendency of O.S.A.No.100 of 2015, filed A.No.2647 of
2015 for eschewing 16 documents out of 30 documents, which came to be marked
through P.W.1 on 19.3.2015. After the disposal of O.S.A.No.100 of 2015, the
defendant filed A.No.4539 of 2015 for eschewing 22 documents out of the
remaining 23 documents, that were marked through P.W.1 on 15.6.2015.

4.Counter affidavits have been filed in both applications, wherein, it has
been stated among other things, that pursuant to the order dated 17.2.2015,
passed by this Court, wherein, the learned Master was directed to record
objections and mark documents, the respondent/plaintiff had furnished all
documents, which were received on 19.2.2015, by the applicant/defendant, and
at that time, there was no objection to the said documents. It is further
stated that the applicant had actively participated in the chief-examination,
wherein, Exs.P1 to P30 were marked and since the order dated 17.2.2015, passed
by this Court, had addressed all concerns of the parties, the
applicant/defendant is not put to any prejudice; but, on the other hand, they
filed these frivolous applications to drag on the trial of the suit and hence,
the applications may be dismissed.

5.The applicant/defendant filed rejoinder affidavits reiterating their stand
taken in the applications, and would state that the proof affidavit of P.W.1
contains documents, which were never disclosed, nor referred to in the plaint,
or in the affidavit of documents already filed by them, and sequence of events
clearly reflect that the respondent/plaintiff is prosecuting the present
proceedings in a manner unknown to law resulting in the applicant/defendant
raising objections from time to time. It is further stated, merely because
copies of intending documents have been furnished, does not imply that the
said documents are automatically admissible in law and are entitled to be
marked as exhibits and hence, the applicant/defendant prays for allowing the
applications.

6.These applications were listed before this Court on various dates.

7.M.P.No.1 of 2015 in O.S.A.No.100 of 2015 was filed seeking clarification of
the order dated 4.6.2015. The Division Bench vide order dated 14.10.2015, has
clarified the same as under:-

... At this stage, all that the learned Single Judge is required to consider
is whether the question of admissibility, proof and relevancy raised could be
decided at this stage or at the final stage .....

8.Mr.T.V.Ramanujan, learned Senior Counsel, assisted by Ms.Suba Shiny,
Advocate, appearing for the applicant/defendant, made the following
submissions:-

(a) In respect of the objections raised regarding admissibility, mode of proof
and relevancy as to certain documents, tendered in evidence, the most
appropriate and convenient stage to decide the same, would be at the earliest
given opportunity i.e., at the time of marking the documents itself as
exhibits. The reason is that if the objections are raised, then the party
tendering evidence, may have an opportunity to cure any defect, if any,
regarding the said evidence, and the decision taken in that regard, at the
earliest point of time, may also save the precious time of the Court at the
time of advancing final arguments, and the party against whom, such evidence
is tendered, may have an opportunity to dispel any doubt, as to the
genuineness, truth and validity of the documents that are marked.

(b) Any objection regarding mode of proof, should be decided at the earliest
available opportunity and in the case on hand, the respondent/plaintiff had
tendered documents as exhibits and material object, which are
photocopies/xerox copies, newspaper clippings, press report, downloads from
websites, independent research/secret trial documents, Compact Disc said to
have been containing audio video bytes of several interviews, unauthenticated
translations, truncated/incomplete documents, photographs and several other
documents, of which, P.W.1 is not at all the author and no way concerned with
it, and in spite of the said objections, having been raised even at the time
of tendering these documents in evidence as exhibits and material object, such
exhibits and material object were marked and therefore, the
applicant/defendant is put to grave and serious prejudice.

(c) The applicant/defendant in both applications, would also contend that
photocopies or xerox copies of Exs.P3, P4, P5, P11, P13 series, P15, P16, P17
and P19 cannot be marked in the absence of any proper and sufficient
explanation as to the non-availability of primary evidence.

(d) Xerox copies of newspaper clippings and press reports were also marked as
Exs.P11, P13 series, P16, P17 and P19 and without producing the complete
newspaper, in which the said news item appeared, coupled with the fact that
newspaper articles per se, are in the nature of hearsay evidence, these
documents ought not to have been marked at all.

(e) The respondent/plaintiff also produced a Compact Disc containing video
bytes/clippings from several television channels/news telecasts, which are
incomplete, and the contents of the Compact Disc were stated to be downloaded
from an unverifiable source on the Internet and edited by the
respondent/plaintiff to suit their convenience and it cannot be allowed to be
tendered in evidence as material object, due to the fact that the source has
not been disclosed. The video clippings have been edited and compiled and no
certificate of authenticity has been provided by any of the news channels.

(f) Similarly, the respondent/plaintiff had marked Exs.P31 to P34, P41 to P43
and P48 to P50, which are several web pages/web downloads, the source or
authenticity of which remains unverified, and those contents may be altered by
any one at any point of time to suit their need and convenience.

(g) The respondent/plaintiff had also marked English translation of certain
documents, which are in foreign language, and certificate of translation as
mandated under Order IX Rule 1(a) of Madras High Court Original Side Rules,
has not been complied with and therefore, the said documents cannot be
received in evidence.

(h) Certain incomplete documents viz. Exs.P7, P44, P46 and P47, were marked by
the respondent/plaintiff and therefore, the same ought not to have been
received in evidence.

(i) Ex.P51 photograph, was also marked and unless and until the Photographer,
who took the photo, is examined as a witness, the authenticity of the same
remains doubtful and therefore, the said document should not have been
received in evidence.

(j) The respondent/plaintiff did not produce specific certificates in
compliance of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, in respect of Ex.P10
series, P14, P22, P28, P31, P32, P33, P34, P41, P42, P43, P48, P49 and P50,
and in the absence of such certificates as mandated under the above said
provision, these documents ought not to have been received in evidence.

(k) The respondent/plaintiff has marked Ex.P24 - Technical Collaboration
Agreement dated 13.11.2000; Ex.P25  design report of AVL written by Angerer
Bernd; Ex.P26  Technical Collaboration Agreement dated 25.6.2004 and Ex.P27 
Revised Technical Collaboration Agreement dated 10.6.2005, and the said
agreements have not been stamped in accordance with the Indian Stamp Act, and
the contents of the said documents pertain to secret trial/research between
the respondent/plaintiff and a third party and the same is not in consonance
with Section 64(2)(1) of the Patents Act.

9.It is the primordial submission of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
the applicant/defendant, that the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India and reported in (2001) 3 SCC 1 : AIR 2000 SC 1158 (BIPIN
SHANTILAL PANCHAL V. STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANOTHER), cannot be pressed into
service for the reason that the said judgment came to be rendered on the facts
and circumstances of that case and that the Hon'ble Supreme Court felt, trial
of the criminal case is unnecessarily getting prolonged and in the light of
the same, has rendered the said judgment and it has no application to the case
on hand and the subsequent judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India and reported in 2013 (3) KLJ 59 (SUPREME COURT) (STATE OF N.C.T. OF
DELHI V. MUKESH), has clarified the same and in the judgment rendered by the
Full Bench of Bombay High Court and reported in 2008 (6) MH.L.J. 886 (HEMENDRA
RASIKLAL GHIA V. SUBODH MODY), it has also been observed that the view
expressed in BIPIN SHANTILAL PANCHAL case (cited supra), is based on the
peculiar factual matrix arising out of criminal trial, which was prolonged for
almost ten years in breach of fundamental right of the accused guaranteed
under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and reliance was placed upon
three Judge Bench judgment of the Apex Court reported in (1972) 1 SCC 9
(P.C.PURUSHOTHAMA REDDIAR V. S.PERUMAL), which was followed in (2003) 8 SCC
752 (R.V.E.VENKATCHALLA GOUNDER V. ARULMIGHU VISWESARASWAMY AND V.P. TEMPLE
AND ANOTHER) and AIR 2004 SC 4082 (DAYAMATHI BAI V. K.M.SHAFFI).

10.It is the further submission of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
the applicant/defendant, that Order XVIII Rule 4 of the Code of Civil
Procedure speaks about recording of evidence by the Commissioner and the said
Rule makes it abundantly clear that the objections as to the admissibility,
relevancy and mode of proof are to be decided immediately after the documents
are tendered in evidence, and not at a later stage of trial along with the
final arguments on merits and therefore, the objections raised, cannot be
deferred to the final arguments and must be decided then and there, for the
reason that the record of proceedings will be burdened with
documents/evidence, which prima facie, ought not to have been received in
evidence, and in the event of eschewing these documents, only the relevant
exhibits will be made available so as to enable the Court to appreciate the
same and give it's decision and moreover, if the objections raised as to the
mode of proof, are sustained, the concerned party, who wants to mark the
documents, may also have an opportunity to cure the defects pointed out, and
in the event of mode of proof being postponed, till arguments, the party, who
is raising the objections, will be put to serious prejudice.

11.The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant/defendant, has
placed reliance upon the following decisions:-

(i) 2008 (6) MH.L.J. 886 (BOMBAY FULL BENCH) (HEMENDRA RASIKLAL GHIA V. SUBODH
MODY);

(ii) (2010) 8 SCC 423 (SHALIMAR CHEMICAL WORKS LIMITED V. SURENDRA OIL AND DAL
MILLS (REFINERIES) AND OTHERS);

(iii) 2002-4-L.W. 147 (TAMIL NADU INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LTD. V.
N.SWAMINATHAN);

(iv) 2010 (9) SCC 712 (M.CHANDRA V. M.THANGAMUTHU AND ANOTHER);

(v) 2011 (4) SCC 240 (H.SIDDIQUI V. A.RAMALINGAM);

(vi) AIR 1959 SC 1376 (GULLAPALLI NAGESWARARAO AND OTHERS V. STATE OF ANDHRA
PRADESH);

(vii) 1988 (3) SCC 319 (LAXMI RAJ SHETTY AND ANOTHER V. STATE OF TAMIL NADU);

(viii) AIR 1994 SC 1733 (QUAMARUL ISLAM V. S.A.KANTA AND OTHERS);

(ix) AIR 1975 SC 1788 (ZB BUKHARI V. B.R.MEHRA);

(x) AIR 1986 SC 3 (RAM SINGH AND OTHERS V. COL RAM SINGH);

(xi) 2006 (11) SCC 1 (JAGJIT SINGH V. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS);

(xii) 76 F SUPP. 2D 773 (1999) (ST. CLAIR V. JOHNNY'S OYSTER AND SHRIMP, INC.)

(xiii) 2014 (10) SCC 473 (ANVAR P.V. V. P.K.BASHEER AND OTHERS).

12.Per contra, Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel, assisted by
Tvl.T.K.Baskar and K.Harishankar, Advocates, appearing for the
respondent/plaintiff, would submit that the only intention of the
applicant/defendant is to procrastinate the trial and the order dated
14.10.2015, made in M.P.No.1 of 2015 in O.S.A.No.100 of 2015, also makes it
clear that this Court is required to consider whether the question of
admissibility, proof and relevancy raised, could be decided at this stage or
at the final stage and even prior to the filing of the proof affidavit, the
parties have inspected the documents in and around 2011, and no objection was
raised by the applicant/defendant even at that time and upon their
satisfaction as to the contents of the documents, that were sought to be
marked, proof affidavit of P.W.1 has been filed.

13.It is the further submission of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
the respondent/plaintiff, that the order dated 17.2.2015, made in O.S.A.No.100
of 2015, was virtually passed on consent, as all the objections raised by the
applicant herein, were noted, and the grievance expressed by them regarding
non-furnishing of copies of certain documents, have been addressed and copies
have also been furnished and at the time of reporting compliance, no objection
was raised by the applicant as to the documents, and in spite of the order
dated 10.12.2014, passed by this Court, directing the parties to cooperate
with the expeditious disposal of the suits, the applicant/defendant for
obvious reasons, is preventing the Court from doing so.

14.The learned Senior Counsel for the respondent/plaintiff on merits of the
applications, would contend that the photocopies of the documents were
referred to in the plaint and even at the time of filing the written
statement, no express objections were raised and as already pointed out, even
at the time of furnishing of these documents, pursuant to the order passed in
O.S.A.No.100 of 2015, the applicant kept quiet and therefore, it is not open
to them to contend otherwise, and that too, after the commencement of trial,
and insofar as the compliance of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act,
necessary certificate has been given and the legality of the same can be
tested only at the time of arguments.

15.It is the further submission of the learned Senior Counsel for the
respondent that the primordial issue to be considered, relates to the stage of
deciding the objections as to the admissibility, relevancy and proof of
documents and the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in (2001) 3
SCC 1  BIPIN SHANTILAL PANCHAL case (referred to supra), is a complete answer
to all the objections put forth on behalf of the applicant, for the reason
that the Indian Evidence Act is applicable both to criminal as well as to
civil proceedings and the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in paragraph No.15 of
the said judgment, has also observed that deciding the objections at the later
stage, will have two advantages viz. (i) the time in the trial Court, during
the stage of taking evidence, would not be wasted on account of raising such
objections and the Court can continue the examination of witnesses and the
witnesses need not wait for long hours and (ii) the superior Court, when the
same objection is re-canvassed and reconsidered in appeal or revision, against
the final judgment of the trial Court, can determine the correctness of the
view taken by the trial Court regarding that objections, without bothering to
remit the case to the trial Court again for fresh disposal and the said course
would not cause any prejudice to the parties to the litigation and would not
act to their misery or expenses.

16.It is also contended by the learned Senior Counsel for the
respondent/plaintiff that the procedure/principle enunciated in Bipin
Shantilal Panchal case, has been uniformly followed by this Court in various
decisions reported in (2011) 7 MLJ 916 (MANICKAM V. CHINNASAMY AND OTHERS);
2012 (6) CTC 194 (LALITHA AND ANOTHER V. SINGARAM AND OTHERS) AND 2013 (2) CTC
864 (G.RAMAMOORTHY V. M.S.R.SIVAKUMAR AND ANOTHER), and therefore, the
judgment rendered by the Full Bench of Bombay High Court, may not have any
relevancy and applicability to the facts of the present case and in any event,
it is not open to the High Court to take a different view from that of the
ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, as it may amount to
judicial indiscipline.

17.In sum and substance, it is the submission of the learned Senior Counsel
appearing for the respondent/plaintiff, that any objection as to the
admissibility, proof and relevancy of documents, can be decided at the time of
final arguments and if any document is eschewed at an early stage and in the
event of either the trial Court or the Appellate Court having found that the
said documents are to be taken in evidence, then, once again, it may delay the
conclusion of the proceedings and if the judgment in Bipin Shantilal Panchal
case, is followed, it is always open to the Court to eschew the marked
exhibits from consideration and in that event, neither the plaintiff, nor the
defendant would be put to any prejudice and prays for dismissal of these
applications with exemplary cost.

18.This Court has carefully considered the submissions made by the respective
learned Senior Counsel appearing for the parties, and also perused the
materials placed as well as the judgments cited before it.

19.The respondent/plaintiff filed A.Nos.413 and 414 of 2015 seeking the leave
of this Court to file additional documents and for expeditious trial of the
case respectively. It was contended by the learned Senior Counsel appearing
for the respondent therein/applicant herein, that the order directing the
learned Master to admit documents subject to proof and relevancy, may not work
out as specific objections were raised with regard to the certificate as
contemplated under Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, and marking of
press reports and other documents viz. Exs.P24 to P27, under Section 64(2)(1)
of the Patents Act. The learned Judge after taking into consideration, the
rival submissions, has directed the learned Master to mark the documents and
record the objections raised, leaving it open to be decided at the time of
final arguments before this Court, and also made it clear that the learned
Counsel appearing for the plaintiff  the respondent herein, shall furnish
copies of documents clarifying the objections raised by the defendant  the
applicant herein, on or before 19.2.2015. The defendant/applicant herein, made
a challenge to the order dated 17.2.2015, made in A.No.413 of 2015, by filing
O.S.A.No.100 of 2015, and the said appeal was disposed of on 4.6.2015, in the
terms as extracted above. Later on, the Division Bench of this Court vide
order dated 14.10.2015, made in M.P.No.1 of 2015 in O.S.A.No.100 of 2015,
clarified that the learned Single Judge is required to consider whether the
question of admissibility, proof and relevancy raised, could be decided at
this stage or at the final stage.

20.In the light of the above said clarificatory order, the primordial question
that arises for consideration, is whether the question of admissibility, proof
and relevancy raised by the applicant/defendant, with regard to Exs.P2 to P5,
P7, P10 series, P11, P13 series, P14, P15 to P17, P19, P21, P22, P24, P25, P26
to P28, P31 to P34, P35 to P38, P39 to P44, P45, P46 to P50, P51 and P53,
could be decided at this stage or at the time of final arguments?

21.PHOTOCOPIES:-

21(i) The first objection raised, is with regard to the marking of photocopies
of documents and according to the applicant/defendant, Exs.P3 to P5, P11, P13
series, P15 to P17 and P19 are xerox copies of documents and since no
explanation has been offered as to the non-marking of the original
documents/non-availability of primary evidence, the said documents have to be
eschewed from evidence. A Single Bench of this Court in the judgment reported
in (2015) 2 MLJ 42 (HOME MISSIONARY SOCIETY OF INDIA AND OTHERS V. VEPERY
AUXILIARY), has considered the similar issue and placed reliance upon the
following decisions:-

(i) (2007) 6 MLJ 893 (AMUTHA BEELLARMINE CORERA V. ELSIE VILLAVARAYER);

(ii) (2007) 4 MLJ 958 (YASHODA V. K. SHOBHA RANI);

(iii) AIR 1966 SC 1457 (ROMAN CATHOLIC MISSION V. STATE OF MADRAS) and

(iv) (2010) 8 SCC 423 (SHALIMAR CHEMICAL WORKS LTD. V. SURENDRA OIL AND DAL
MILLS).

21(ii) In paragraph No.8 of the above cited judgment, it has been observed
that Firstly, there is no application filed by the plaintiff under Section
65(a) of the Indian Evidence Act, seeking permission to mark those documents,
which are admittedly the photocopies, the originals of the same said to be in
the custody of the other side. Secondly, the above said order (1.7.2014) also
did not discuss the objections raised by the defendants through their memo,
dated 16.6.2014. It is well settled that photocopies cannot be marked as a
primary evidence. However, if they are sought to be marked as secondary
evidence under the circumstances as contemplated under Section 65(a) of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872, then the party who seeks to mark those secondary
evidence must file an application under Section 65(a) of the said Act and seek
permission of the Court. In this case, no such application was filed. That
being the factual position, I am of the view that the impugned order of the
Court below, dated 1.7.2014 marking Exs.A-1 to A-16 (Exs.A-3 to A-16 marked
with objection on the side of the defendants), cannot be sustained and
consequently, the same is liable to be set aside. The learned Judge having
held so, granted liberty to the respondent/plaintiff therein to file an
application under Section 65(a) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, before the
trial Court, seeking permission to mark photocopies of those documents and as
and when such an application is filed, it is open for the
petitioners/defendants therein to file their counter affidavit to the said
application, and the Court below shall consider the said application and pass
orders on the same, on merits and in accordance with law.

21(iii) A perusal of the proof affidavit of P.W.1 would prima facie disclose
that no such leave has been obtained in the form of an application under
Section 65(a) of the Indian Evidence Act.

21(iv) It is the stand of the respondent/plaintiff that in the light of the
order passed in A.Nos.413 and 414 of 2015, copies of documents have been
furnished to the applicant/defendant and they did not raise any objections and
thereafter only, the said documents were marked as exhibits and therefore, it
is not open to them to take such a stand and in any event, the admissibility,
relevancy and mode of proof can be decided at a later point of time during the
course of arguments. However, in the light of the decisions rendered by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and reported in AIR 1966 SC 1457 (ROMAN
CATHOLIC MISSION V. STATE OF MADRAS) and (2010) 8 SCC 423 (SHALIMAR CHEMICAL
WORKS LTD. V. SURENDRA OIL AND DAL MILLS), which was followed by this Court in
the above cited decision, this Court is of the view that the objection as to
the marking of xerox copies of the documents referred to, is to be decided now
itself.

22.WEB-PAGES:-

22(i) It is the submission of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
applicant/defendant, that Exs.P31 to P34, P41 to P43 and P48 to P50 are web-
pages/web downloads, the source or authenticity of which remains unverified,
and therefore, it cannot be relied on by either party.

22(ii) In (2008) 10 SCC 535 (RELIANCE INFOCOMM LTD. V. BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM
LIMITED AND OTHERS), a Civil Appeal was filed against the directive issued by
the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and the question that arose for
consideration, was whether unlimited cordless service of the appellant viz.
Reliance Infocomm Ltd., is covered under the definition of WLL(M) service as
defined in Regulation 2(xxviii) of the Telecommunication Interconnection Usage
Charges Regulations, 2003, which defines WLL(M) as limited mobility service
using WLL technology within short distance charging area (SDCA)?. The Hon'ble
Supreme Court has decided the said issue on 30.4.2008, and while dismissing
the civil appeal, has placed reliance upon Wikipedia and Whatis.com's
Encyclopedia of Technology Terms and arrived at a decision.

22(iii) The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant/defendant, has
placed reliance upon (2008) 1 SCC 382 (COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, BANGALORE V.
ACER INDIA (P) LTD.), which came to be decided on 12.10.2007, and it was
observed that Wikipedia is an on-line encyclopedia and information can be
entered therein by any person and as such, it may not be authentic.

22(iv) In the light of the subsequent judgment reported in (2008) 10 SCC 535
(cited supra), wherein, Web Satellites viz. Internet Sources and Internet
Sites, have been relied upon, and therefore, the objection as to the marking
of the said exhibits, can be decided at the time of final arguments.

23.CLIPPINGS OF NEWS PAPERS AND PRESS REPORTS:-

23(i) The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant/defendant, raised
an objection as to the marking of newspaper clippings and press reports, viz.
Exs.P11, P13 series, P16, P17 and P19, respectively. Section 81 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872, deals with presumption as to the Gazettes, newspapers,
private Acts of Parliament and other documents. In the decision reported in
(2004) 3 SCC 363 (B. SINGH V. UNION OF INDIA), the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India held that A newspaper is not one of the documents referred to in
Section 78(2) of the Evidence Act by which the allegation of fact can be
proved, and the presumption of genuineness attached under Section 81 of the
Evidence Act to a newspaper report cannot be treated as proof of the facts
reported therein. A statement of fact contained in a newspaper is merely
hearsay and, therefore, inadmissible in evidence in the absence of the maker
of the statement appearing in Court and deposing to have perceived the fact
reported. 23(ii) In the light of the above, the objection as to the marking
of the said exhibits, is to be decided now itself.

24.TRANSLATION FOR DOCUMENTS IN OTHER LANGUAGES:-

24(i) A contention has been put forth on behalf of the applicant/defendant,
with regard to some of the documents, which are in the language other than
Tamil and English and came to be marked as exhibits, and in the absence of the
author of the translation not being examined and in the light of the
unverified and incomplete documents being marked, the same have to be eschewed
from evidence.

24(ii) It is a settled position of law that the Rules of procedure are
handmaid of justice and the objection raised, is only with regard to the mode
of proof and therefore, the said issue can be considered at the time of
advancing final arguments.

25.ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE:-

25(i) It is contended that the marking of Exs.P10 series, P14, P22, P28, P31
to P34, P41 to P43 and P48 to P50 cannot be allowed for the reason that the
respondent/plaintiff did not produce specific certificate as mandated under
Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act. In response to the said submission,
it is contended on behalf of the respondent/plaintiff, that necessary
certificates under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act, were submitted along with
the said exhibits.

25(ii) In the judgment reported in (2014) 10 SCC 473 (ANVAR P.V. V.
P.K.BASHEER AND OTHERS), it has been held that any documentary evidence by way
of an electronic record under the Evidence Act, in view of Sections 59 and
65-A, can be proved only in accordance with the procedure prescribed under
Section 65-B, which deals with the admissibility of the electronic record and
only if the conditions mentioned under Section 65-B(2) are satisfied, it may
be received in evidence and under Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act, the
following conditions have to be fulfilled:-

(a) There must be a certificate which identifies the electronic record
containing the statement;

(b) The certificate must describe the manner in which the electronic record
was produced;

(c) The certificate must furnish particulars of the device involved in the
production of that record;

(d) The certificate must deal with the applicable conditions mentioned under
Section 65-B(2) of the Evidence Act; and

(e) The certificate must be signed by a person occupying a responsible
official position in relation to the operation of the relevant device.

25(iii) According to the respondent/plaintiff, necessary certification has
been done by a person occupying a responsible official position. Therefore,
the point urged on behalf of the applicant/defendant in this regard, can be
thrashed out at the final stage of the proceedings.

26.AUDIO-VIDEO RECORDING:-

26(i) An objection was raised with regard to the audio-video recording in the
form of Compact Disc (CD) containing compilation of video bytes/clippings from
several television channels' programmes/news telecasts. According to the
learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant/defendant, the said CD has
been stated to be downloaded from an unverifiable source on Internet and
edited by the respondent/plaintiff to suit their convenience and no
certificate of authenticity has been provided by any of the news channels to
prove that the interviews were conducted or aired by them. In support of his
submission, the learned Senior Counsel relied upon the decisions reported in
AIR 1975 SC 1788 (ZB BUKHARI V. B.R.MEHRA); AIR 1986 SC 3 (RAM SINGH AND
OTHERS V. COL RAM SINGH) and 2006 (11) SCC 1 (JAGJIT SINGH V. STATE OF HARYANA
AND OTHERS).

26(ii) Per contra, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
respondent/plaintiff, would submit that pursuant to the orders passed in
A.Nos.413 and 414 of 2015, copies of documents have been furnished to the
applicant/defendant and immediately, on receipt of the same, no objection was
raised by them; but, however, at the time of marking the exhibits, objections
were raised and the concerned exhibits have been marked subject to objections
and the tenability of the same can be gone into at the time of final
arguments.

26(iii) In AIR 1975 SC 1788 (ZB BUKHARI V. B.R.MEHRA), for proving corrupt
practice, tape record speeches were relied upon and on the facts of the case,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held that the tape record had been
prepared and preserved safely by an independent authority viz. the police, and
not by a party to the case and the transcripts from the tape records, shown to
have been duly prepared under independent supervision and control, very soon
afterwards, made subsequent tampering with the cassettes easy to detect and
the tape records were primary evidence of what was recorded and the
transcripts could be used to show what the transcriber had found recorded
there at the time of transcription and this operated as a check against
tampering and they could be used as corroborative evidence.

26(iv) In AIR 1986 SC 3 (RAM SINGH AND OTHERS V. COL. RAM SINGH),
admissibility as to the tape recorded statement was considered and the
conditions of admissibility of such a statement are enumerated as under:-

(1) The voice of the speaker must be duly identified by the maker of the
record or by others who recognise his voice. In other words, it manifestly
follows as a logical corollary that the first condition for the admissibility
of such a statement is to identify the voice of the speaker. Where the voice
has been denied by the maker it will require very strict proof to determine
whether or not it was really the voice of the speaker.

(2) The accuracy of the tape recorded statement has to be proved by the maker
of the record by satisfactory evidence direct or circumstantial.

(3) Every possibility of tampering with or erasure of a part of a tape
recorded statement must be ruled out otherwise it may render the said
statement out of context and, therefore, inadmissible.

(4) The statement must be relevant according to the rules of Evidence Act.

(5) The recorded cassette must be carefully sealed and kept in safe or
official custody.

(6) The voice of the speaker should be clearly audible and not lost or
distorted by other sounds or disturbances. 26(v) The Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India on the facts of the above said case, has held that the voices that were
recorded at number of places, were not very clear and there was tremendous
noise while the statements have been recorded and there were erasures here and
there in the tape and besides, the voice recorded was not very clear and the
Deputy Commissioner who recorded the statements on tape, clearly admitted in
his evidence, that he did not place the recorded cassette in proper custody.

26(vi) In 2006 (11) SCC 1 (JAGJIT SINGH V. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS), with
regard to the decision of the Speaker to disqualify a Member for defection,
the interviews in the news channels, were relied upon and on the facts of the
case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held that the television channels
produced the certificates and the original CD received from the concerned news
channel, has also been used and despite the opportunity having been afforded,
the respondent did not avail the same.

26(vii) In (2010) 10 SCC 512 (MAN KAUR v. HARTAR SINGH SANGHA), it has been
held that where a party to the suit does not appear in the witness box and
states his own case on oath and does not offer himself to be cross-examined by
the other side, a presumption would arise that the case set up by him, is not
correct.

26(viii) The Court having considered the rival submissions and the above cited
decisions, is of the view that the above said objection mainly pertains to the
mode of proof and the same can be gone into at the time of arguments.

27.PHOTOGRAPH:- The applicant/defendant also raised an objection as to the
marking of Ex.P51 photograph, stating that the same cannot be allowed to be
marked as the respondent/plaintiff has not brought the photographer as a
witness to depose before the Court and to produce the negative of the same. In
the considered opinion of the Court, the said objection can also be gone into
at the time of final arguments to be advanced, as it pertains to the mode of
proof.

28.The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant/defendant, placed
heavy reliance upon 2008 (6) MH.L.J. 886 (FULL BENCH) (HEMENDRA RASIKLAL GHIA
V. SUBODH MODY), where the question that arose for a decision by the Full
Bench of Bombay High Court, was Whether objections as to the admissibility or
mode of proof of evidence, oral and documentary, should be decided upon when
raised or whether decisions thereon can be deferred to a later stage?. The
Full Bench has considered the rival submissions and also taken note of various
decisions rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India including Bipin
Shantilal Panchal case, as well as by it, and observed as follows:-

61. Considering the provisions of law referred to above, it is not possible
to reject the document admitted and exhibited in terms of Rule 4 in exercise
of powers under Rule 6 of Order XIII of Civil Procedure Code. A document can
be exhibited in evidence only when such a document is admissible in evidence
and not otherwise. If admissible document is exhibited on establishing its
proof then such document cannot be de-exhibited or rejected. This is
abundantly clear from the provisions of law contained in Rules 4 and 6 of
Order XIII read with Para-524 of the Civil Manual. In fact, provisions of law
contained in Rule 4 are to be read with Rule 6 of Order XIII of Civil
Procedure Code and cannot be considered to be referable to two different
stages. The question of exhibiting the document under Rule 4 can arise only if
the document is found to be admissible in evidence and in case it is found to
be not admissible, the same is to be rejected in terms of Rule 6 of Order XIII
read with para-524 of Civil Manual. There is no provision enabling the Court
to postpone the objection regarding admissibility or proof of document, as
such one can safely rule that the question as to admissibility of document
should be decided at it arises and should not be reserved until the judgment
of the case is given.

62\. The various judgments of the Privy Council, the Supreme Court and various
High Courts referred to hereinabove lean in favour of determining the question
as to admissibility of document at the time of its reception or at the
earliest possible opportunity. The reason is that if the Court allows the
objection, the party tendering the evidence may take such steps as may be
advised to get the lacunae remedied. Once inadmissible evidence is admitted on
record, it is impossible to say what its effect may be on the mind of the
person, who hears it. It creates atmosphere of prejudice affecting fair trial.
It may, unconsciously, be regarded by judicial minds as corroboration of some
piece of evidence legally admissible and thereby obtain for latter quite undue
weight and significance.

....

71\. The admissibility of the document in evidence may be broadly classified
into three classes- (i) that objection to the document which is sought to be
proved is itself insufficiently stamped and the objection relates to
deficiency of stamp duty of the document; (ii) where the objection does not
dispute admissibility of document in evidence but is directed towards the mode
of proof alleging the same to be irregular or insufficient; and (iii) the
objection that the document which is sought to be proved is ab initio
inadmissible in evidence.

....

74\. In the second category of the case, the objection should be taken when
the evidence is tendered. Once the document has been admitted in evidence and
marked as an exhibit, the objection that it should not be admitted in evidence
or that the mode adopted for proving the document is irregular cannot be
allowed to be raised at any stage subsequent to the marking of the document as
an exhibit. This proposition is rule of fair play. The crucial test is whether
an objection, if taken at the appropriate point of time, would enable the
party tendering the evidence to cure the defect and resort to such mode of
proof as would be regular. The omission to object become fatal because by his
failure the party entitled to object allows the party tendering the evidence
to act on an assumption that the opposite party is not serious about the mode
of proof. On the other hand, a prompt objection does not prejudice the party
tendering the evidence, for two reasons; firstly, it enables the Court to
apply its mind and pronounce its decision on the question of admissibility
there and then; and secondly, in the event of finding of the Court on the mode
of proof sought to be adopted going against the party tendering the evidence,
the opportunity of seeking indulgence of the court for permitting a regular
mode or method of proof and thereby removing the objection raised by the
opposite party, is available to the party leading the evidence. Failure to
raise a prompt and timely objection amounts to waiver of the necessity for
insisting on formal proof of a document, the document itself which is sought
to be proved being admissible in evidence.

75\. If the objection to the proof of document is not decided and the document
is taken on record giving tentative exhibit, then the right of the cross-
examiner is seriously prejudiced. Once the document is used in cross-
examination, then the document gets proved and can be read in evidence as held
by the Supreme Court in the case of Ram Janki Devi vs. M/s.Juggilal Kamlapat,
1971 (1) SCC 477. If the cross-examiner decides not to cross-examine based on
unexhibited document and, ultimately, at the fag end of the trial, the
document is held to be admissible and proved, then, the cross-examiner as rule
of fair play would be entitled to further opportunity to cross-examine based
on that document resulting in delayed trial defeating the very object and
purpose of the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code.

76\. In the third case merely because a document has been marked as "an
exhibit", an objection as to its admissibility is not excluded. It is
available to be raised even at later stage or even in appeal or revision.
There is no question of inadmissible documents being read into evidence merely
on account of such documents being given exhibit numbers in affidavit filed by
in examination-in-chief or while recording oral evidence. For example in case
of unregistered sale-deed or gift-deed or lease-deed requiring registration,
no evidence of the terms thereof can be given. On the ground of public policy,
evidence derived from unpublished official records of the State cannot be
given except with the permission of the head of the department concerned as
laid down under section 123 of the Evidence Act. Such a document, therefore,
can be tentatively exhibited and the decision thereon can be postponed till
the suit reaches the stage of judgment. However such objection has also to be
decided before the judgment is delivered. The objection to the admissibility
of such evidence can always be taken at any stage of the suit.

77\. Thus, we hold and rule that ordinarily an objection to the admissibility
of the document in first and second categories of cases (excluding third type
of case) has to be taken before the document is exhibited which, necessarily,
postulates decision on the objection then and there. In other words, whether
document is admissible or inadmissible is matter which should always be ruled
upon at the time when the document is being proved or put in or the question
asked to the witness. Such practice and procedure is fair to both parties.

....

82\. While taking above view, we are also conscious of the another three Judge
Bench judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Bipin Shantilal Panchal
(supra) followed by another judgment in the case of State v. Navjot Sandhu
(supra); wherein the view taken is that whenever any objection is taken
regarding admissibility of the material or any item of oral evidence such
objection should be decided at the last stage of the final judgment. The said
judgments were followed by the learned single Judge of this Court in the case
of Boman P. Irani (supra).

83\. The procedure suggested by three Judge Bench of the Apex Court in the
case of Bipin Shantilal Panchal (supra) for being followed is little different
than the view expressed by the another three Judge Bench judgment of the same
Court in the case of P.C.Purushothama Reddiar v. S.Perumal (supra) followed by
two Division Benches of the Supreme Court in the cases of R.V.E. Venkatachalam
Gounder and Smt.Dayamathi Bai v. K.M.Shaffi (cited supra).

84\. Now the question arises as to which of the two views this Court should
follow. The view expressed in Bipin Shantilal Panchal (supra) by the Apex
Court is based on the peculiar factual matrix arising out of criminal trial
which was prolonged for almost 10 (Ten) years in breach of fundamental right
of the accused under Article 21 of the Constitution of India guarantying
speedy and expeditious trial. The same view was followed in the case of State
v. Navjot Sandhu (supra) involving more or less similar facts surfaced in a
criminal trial. The question referred for our consideration arises out of
civil proceedings governed by the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. It
is well settled that if certain things are required to be done by the Statute
in a specific manner, then it cannot be done in any other manner as ruled by
the Apex Court in the case of Nazir Ahmed v. King Emperor, AIR 1936 PC 243;
State of Uttar Pradesh v. Singhara Singh, AIR 1964 SC 358 followed by this
Court in Vanmala S. Aney v. National Education Society, Khamgaon, 1982 Mh.L.J.
403. Thus, mandate of Order XIII Rules 3 and 4 read with Order XVIII Rule 4(1)
and consensus of judicial opinion compel us to fall in line with the view
expressed in R.V.E. Venkatachalam Gounder and Smt.Dayamathi Bai v. K.M.Shaffi
(both cited supra).

85\. Apart from the above, the principles of stare decisis squarely applies to
the case on hand. In Mishri Lal v. Dhirendra Nath, (1999) 4 SCC 11 (paras
14-22), the Supreme Court referred to its earlier decision in Maktul v.
Manbhari, AIR 1958 SC 918 on the scope of doctrine of stare decisis with
reference to Hulsbury's Laws of England and Corpus Juris Secundum and held (at
SCC p.18 para-14) that-

"a decision which has been followed for a long period of time, and has been
acted upon by persons in the formation of contracts or in the disposition of
their property, or in the general conduct of affairs, or in legal procedure or
in other ways, will generally be followed by courts of higher authority other
than the court establishing the rule, even though the court before whom the
matter arises afterwards might be of a different view."

86\. Assuming that it is possible to take different view or work out different
procedure as suggested in Bipin Shantilal Panchal; as long as long as
principle laid down in P.C.Purushothama Reddiar v. S.Perumal; R.V.E.
Venkatachalam Gounder and Smt.Dayamathi Bai v. K.M.Shaffi (all cited supra)
has been consistently followed in our country in civil matters, as observed in
Mishri Lal (supra), it will be worthwhile to let the matter rest since a large
number of parties have modulated and continue to modulate their legal
relationships based on the settled law.

29.However, the Full Bench of Bombay High Court after holding so, in paragraph
No.87, has observed that However, by way of exception, the objection relating
to the admissibility of the document requiring resolution of complex issues,
having the effect of arresting progress of the matter, or if the admissibility
of the evidence is dependent on receipt of further evidence, then, in such
cases the trial Court can, in the interest of justice, defer the issue of
deciding admissibility of the document.

30.The Bombay High Court has also placed reliance upon AIR 1978 SC 1393 (RAM
RATAN V. BAJARANG LAL), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has
observed that in a given circumstance, a document can be exhibited with the
endorsement made by the learned trial Judge objected, allowed subject to
objection, clearly indicating that the objection has not been judicially
determined and the document was tentatively marked.

31.The Full Bench of Bombay High Court after taking note of the said judgment,
in the very same paragraph, has observed that This procedure is to be
followed only in exceptional circumstances. Ordinarily, the objection to the
admissibility of the document should be decided as and when raised without
reserving the question as to admissibility of the document until final
judgment in the case. We may make it clear that omission to object to a
document, which in itself is inadmissible in evidence, would not constitute
such document in evidence. It is also duty of the Court to exclude all
irrelevant evidence even if no objection is taken to its admissibility by the
parties. The question of relevancy of the document being a question of law can
be raised and decided at any stage of the proceeding.

32.The Full Bench of Bombay High Court has also taken note of Order XVIII Rule
4 of Code of Civil Procedure and in paragraph No.88, observed as follows:-

88. The cases; wherein Court Commissioner is appointed to record cross-
examination, the Court may decide the question of admissibility of document or
proof of such document before the matter is sent for recording of evidence to
the Commissioner in the form of cross-examination or re-examination or, in a
given case, the Court may decide that question at a subsequent stage. The
Court, obviously, has a discretion of recording cross-examination and re-
examination itself. During the cross-examination, if the document is produced
and the question leading to its admissibility is raised, then, the
Commissioner cannot rule the point as to admissibility of the evidence. In
such case, the Court Commissioner is expected to record objection and can give
tentative exhibit to the document subject to the decision of the Court. The
Court would then be obliged to decide the question before the judgment is
delivered so that the party producing evidence could not be deprived of its
right to tender evidence or an opportunity of producing fresh evidence or
opportunity of making up defects which in many cases could be remedied, if he
is told that the objection is allowed.

33.It is not in dispute that the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India vide judgment
dated 16.9.2009, made in Civil Appeal No.6309 of 2009, has directed to carry
out the hearing of the suit on day-to-day basis, and this Court vide order
dated 10.12.2014, has also directed the parties in the suit, to cooperate with
the learned Master to complete the trial on or before 30.4.2015. In the light
of the Full Bench judgment of Bombay High Court coupled with the fact that in
spite of fixation of time by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as well as by
this Court to expedite and conclude the trial, the suits are yet to be
disposed of and continue to be in the stage of recording evidence.

34.It is to be pointed out, as observed by the Full Bench of Bombay High Court
in 2008 (6) MH.L.J. 886 (cited supra), the above said objections relating to
the admissibility of documents, require resolution of complex issues, which
may have the effect of stalling the progress of the trial of the suit, and
further, that the admissibility of evidence is dependent on receipt of further
evidence. This Court is of the view that in the interest of justice, the said
objections can be taken at the time of final arguments. Even for the sake of
argument, inadmissible documents were received in evidence, subject to
objections, still, it is open to the Court to eschew those documents for
consideration, and give a decision based on the quality of evidence tendered
by the respective parties.

35.In the light of the factual aspect coupled with the legal position, except
the objections raised by the applicant/defendant with regard to the marking of
photocopies of certain documents and clippings of newspapers and press
reports, the rest of the objections with regard to the marking of other
documents, can be decided at the time of final arguments to be advanced by the
respective parties.

36.In the result, both the applications are disposed of accordingly.

37.The objections with regard to the receipt of photocopies of certain
documents as well as clippings of newspapers and press reports, can be taken
up for consideration by this Court before directing the learned Commissioner
to proceed further with the recording of evidence. Call the suit on 20.4.2016.

28-03-2016 Index: no nsv M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.

nsv ORDER IN A.Nos.2647 and 4539 of 2015 in C.S.No.979 of 2007 Dt : 28-03-2016

