

Supreme Court of India

T.V. Usman vs Food Inspector, Tellicherry ... on 25 January, 1994

Equivalent citations: AIR 1994 SC 1818, 1994 (1) BLJR 728, JT 1994 (1) SC 260,
1994 (1) KLT 422 SC, 1994 I OLR SC 377, 1994 (1) SCALE 179, (1994) 1 SCC 754,
1994 (1) UJ 365 SC

Bench: K J Reddy, G Ray

ORDER

1\. This appeal arising under Prevention of Food Adulteration Act is filed
against the Judgment of the Kerala High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 153 of
1982 (reported in 1986 (1) F.A.C., 328) and the main question that arises for
consideration is whether Rule 7(3) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration
Rules is mandatory or only directory? The appellant Usman (A-1) was a vendor.
On 4.10.1978, the Food Inspector PW 3 purchased six packets of Pan supari from
him which were duly sampled and sent for analysis to the Public Analyst who
received the same on 5.10.78. But the Analyst's report was received by the
Local Health Authority on 6.12.78 which was beyond 45 days. It was opined by
the Analyst that the sample contained Saccharan, an artificial sweetened and
thus adulterated. The Food Inspector filed a complaint on 15.12.1978 against
the appellant (A-1) and also the manufacturer (A-2) and they were charged
under Section 16(1)(a)(i) and (ii) read with Section 7(i) and (v) and 2(1a)(a)
and (b) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. The First-Class Magistrate
acquitted both of them mainly on the ground that Rule 7(3) was violated
inasmuch as the Local Health authority received Form III report beyond 45 days
and the same is fatal to the prosecution. Incidently the trial Court also
observed that Rule 9(a) was not properly complied with. The Food Inspector
preferred an appeal before the High Court and the High Court while confirming
the acquittal of A-2 convicted the appellant (A-1) and sentenced him to
undergo six months S.I. and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/-, in default of
payment of which to further undergo S.I. for two months. The High Court held
that Rule 7(3) is not mandatory and non-compliance of the same need be
considered only if the prejudice is established. Likewise, the High Court
following the judgment of the Supreme Court in Tulsiram v. State of Madhya
Pradesh held that Rule 9(a) also is not mandatory but only directory.

2\. In this appeal the only contention is that Rule 7(3) is not mandatory as
held by the High Court and that violation of the same is fatal to the
prosecution case. Rule 7(3) as it originally stood read thus:

After the analysis has been completed he (the public Analyst) shall forthwith
supply to the person concerned a report in Form III of the result of such
analysis.

3\. The amendment in 1968 substituted the following Rule 7(3): After the
analysis has been completed he shall send to the person concerned two copies
of the report of the result of such analysis in form III within a period of
sixty days of the receipt of the samples.

4\. This rule was again substituted by a new rule with effect from 4.1.1977
which reads thus:

The Public Analyst shall, within a period of forty five days from the date of
receipt of any sample for analysis, deliver to the Local (Health) Authority a
report of the result of such analysis in Form III.

This was the rule in force on the date relevant for the purpose of this case.
It may be noted here that a period of 45 days was reduced to 40 days by
subsequent amendment in 1984 with which we are not concerned.

5\. The learned Counsel submits that specifying the period in a statute of
this nature and the historical background of the rule would show that the word
"forthwith" is of great importance and the provisions should be held to be
mandatory. In support of his submission he relied upon several decisions of
the various High Courts as well as of this Court.

6\. In State Public Prosecutor v. Meenakshi Achi and Ors., 1973 F.A.C. 43,
learned single Judge of the Madras High Court held that Rule 7(3) is mandatory
and in no event and under no circumstances full rigour of Rule 7 should not be
permitted to be relaxed otherwise it would even result in the effective
deprivation of the valuable right under Section 13(2) of the Act.

7\. In State of Maharashtra v. Deepchand, 1983 (1) F.A.C, 174, a single Judge
of the Maharashtra High Court held that Rule 7(3) is mandatory.

8\. In Om Parkash v. The State of Punjab 1984 (2) F.A.C. 136, a single Judge
of Punjab and Haryana High Court, relying upon the Judgment of the Madras High
Court in State Public Prosecutor v. Meenakshi Achi and Ors. (supra), also held
that Rule 7(3) is mandatory.

9\. In The Food Inspector v. Jaladanki Fajamma and Anr., 1984 (2) F.A.C. 239,
a single Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court held that Rule 7(3) is
mandatory.

10\. In State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ghasiram Malviya 1986(3) F.A.C. 62, a
single Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court held that Rule 7(3) is
mandatory, placing reliance on the Judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court
in The Food Inspector v. Jaladanki Fajamma and Anr. (supra) and Stale of
Maharashtra v. Deepchand (supra).

11\. In Food Inspector, Pal that Municipality v. Moosa and Ors. 1984 K.L.T.
80, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court held that Rule 7(3) is
mandatory.

12\. In Food Inspector v. Viswanatha Pillai 1987 (2) F.A.C. 288, a single
Judge of the Kerala High Court, relying on the Judgment in Food Inspector,
Palghat Municipality v. Moosa and Ors. 1984 (1) F.A.C. 347 equal to 1984
K.L.T. 80 held that Rule 7(3) is mandatory.

13\. Now we shall also list out the cases where the said Rule is held to be
only directory and not mandatory. In Food and Sanitary Inspector, Giddalur
Panchayat v. Koppu Subbaratnam, 1984 (1) F.A.C. 4 (a case of Andhra Pradesh
High Court) wherein Hon" K. Ramaswamy, J., as he then was, held that Rule 7(3)
is only directory and not mandatory. In State of Hunachal Pradesh v. Punnu Ram
1985 (1) F.A.C. 91, a single Judge of the Himachal Pradesh High court held
that Rule 7(3) is only directory. In Bhavirisetti Deva Mohan Rao and Anr. v.
The State of Andhra Pradesh 1986 (1) F.A.C. 12, a Division Bench of Andhra
Pradesh High Court consisting of Hon. Jeevan Reddy (as he then was) and
Sriramulu, JJ. held that Rule 7(3) is only directory and not mandatory and
there by did not agree with the view taken by the learned Sessions Judge of
the same High Court in The State through Food Inspector v. Shaik Nisar Ahmed
1983 (II) F.A.C. 211 and Food Inspector v. Jaladanki Fajamna and Anr. (supra).
Again a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in Kunhamu v. Food Inspector
1989 (2) F.A.C. 51 considered very elaborately the scope of Rule 7(3) and
referred to all the earlier decisions and held that Rule 7(3) is only
directory and not mandatory.

14\. Shri P.S. Poti learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant
submitted that though there is divergence of opinion, the rule must be held to
be mandatory and having regard to the stringent provisions of the Act, strict
compliance with the provisions of the Act as well as the Rules should be
insisted upon and where there is a failure to comply with, prejudice per se
must be inferred.

15\. In Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, Eleventh Edition, at page 362
it is suited as under:

Where, indeed, the whole aim and object of the legislature would be plainly
defeated if the command to do the thing in a particular manner did not imply a
prohibition to do it in any other manner, no doubt can be entertained as to
the intention;

that is to say, such a requirement would be imperative.

16\. It is further stated on page 364 that:

The general rule is, that an absolute enactment mast be obeyed or fulfilled
exactly, but it is sufficient if a directory enactment be obeyed or fulfilled
substantially.

XXX XXX XXX When a public duty is imposed and the statute requires that it
shall be performed in a certain manner, or within a certain time, or under
other specified conditions, such prescriptions may well be regarded as
intended to be directory only in cases when injustice or inconvenience to
others who have no control over those exercising the duty would result if such
requirements were essential and imperative.

In Craies' Statute Law, Seventh edition at page 62 it is stated thus:

When a statute is passed for the purpose of enabling something to be done and
prescribes the formalities which are to attend its performance, those
prescribed formalities which are essential to the validity of the thing when
done are called imperative or absolute; but those which are not essential and
may be disregarded without invalidating the thing to be done, are called
directory.

17\. At page 250 it is further states thus:

The question whether the provisions in a statute are directory or imperative
has frequently arisen in this country, but it has been said that no general
rule can be laid down and that in every case the object of the statute must be
looked at.... When the provisions of a statute relate to the performance of a
public duty and the case is such that to hold null and void acts done in
respect of this duty would work serious general inconvenience or injustice to
persons who/have no control over the main object of the legislature, it has
been the practice to hold such provisions to be directory only, the neglect of
them, though punishable not affecting the validity of acts done.

In Dattatraya v. State of Bombay it was held as under:

Generally speaking the provisions of a statute creating public duties are
directory and those conferring private rights are imperative. When the
provisions of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and the
case is such that to hold null and void acts done in neglect of this duty
would work serious general inconvenience or injustice to persons who have no
control over those entrusted with the duty and at the same time would not
promote the main object of the legislature, it has been the practice of the
courts to hold such provisions to be directory only; the neglect of them not
affecting the validity of the acts done.

In Rule 7(3) no doubt the expression "shall" is used but it must be borne in
mind that the Rule deals with stages prior to launching the prosecution and it
is also clear that by the date of receipt of the report of the Public Analyst
the case is not yet instituted in the court and it is only on the basis of
this report of the Public Analyst that the concerned authority has to take a
decision whether to institute a prosecution or not. There is no time limit
prescribed within which the prosecution has to be instituted and when there is
no such limit prescribed then there is no valid reason for holding the period
of 45 days as mandatory. Of course that does not mean that the Public Analyst
can ignore the time limit prescribed under the Rules. He must in all cases try
to comply with the time limit. But if there is some delay, in a given case,
there is no reason to hold that the very report is void and on that basis to
hold that even prosecution can not be launched. May be, in a given case, if
there is inordinate delay, the court may not attach any value to the report
but merely because the time limit is prescribed, it can not be said that even
a slight delay would render the report void or inadmissible in law. In this
context it mast be noted that Rule 7(3) is only a procedural provision meant
to speed up the process of investigation on the basis of which the prosecution
has to be launched. No doubt, Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Act confers
valuable right on the accused under which provision the accused can make an
application to the court within a period of 10 days from the receipt of copy
of the report of Public Analyst to get the samples of food analysed in the
Central Food Laboratory and in case the sample is found by the said Central
Food Laboratory unfit for analysis due to decomposition by passage of time or
for any other reason attributable to the lapses on the side of prosecution,
that valuable right would stand denied. This would constitute prejudice to the
accused entitling him to acquittal but mere delay as such will not per se be
fatal to the prosecution case even in cases where the sample continues to
remain fit for analysis inspite of the delay because the accused is in no way
prejudiced on the merits of the case in respect of such delay. Therefore it
mast be shown that the delay has led to the denial of right conferred under
Section 13(2) and that depends on the facts of each case and violation of the
time limit given in Sub-rule 3 of Rule 7 by itself can not be a ground for the
prosecution case being thrown out.

18\. In this context it is useful to refer to the judgment of this Court in
Dalchand v. Municipal Corporation, Bhopal and Anr. wherein the question was
whether Rule 9(j) of Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules under which report
of the public analyst has to be supplied within ten days, is mandatory or
directory and it was held as under:

There are no ready tests or invariable formulas to determine whether a
provision is mandatory or directory. The broad purpose of the statute is
important. The object of the particular provision must be considered. The link
between the two is most important. The weighing of the consequences of holding
a provision to be mandatory or directory is vital and, more often than not,
determinative of the very question whether the provision is mandatory or
directory. Where the design of the statute is the avoidance or prevention of
public mischief, but the enforcement of a particular provision literally to
its letter will tend to defeat that design the provision must be held to be
directory, so that proof of prejudice in addition to non-compliance of the
provision is necessary to invalidate the act complained of. It is well to
remember that quite often many rules, though couched in language which appears
to be imperative, are no more than mere instructions to those entrusted with
the task of discharging statutory duties for public benefit. The negligence of
those to whom public duties are entrusted cannot be statutory interpretation
be allowed to promote public mischief and cause public inconvenience and
defeat the main object of the statute. It is as well to realise that every
prescription of a period within which an act must be done, is not the
prescription of a period of limitation with painful consequences if the act is
not done within that period.

In this view of the matter this Court held that Rule 9(j) is only directory
and not mandatory. Regarding the effect of non-compliance of Rule 9(j) it was
further held that:

Where the effect of non-compliance with the rule was such as to wholly deprive
the right of the person to challenge the Public Analyst's Report by obtaining
the report of the Director of the Central Food Laboratory, there might be just
cause for complaint, as prejudice would then be writ large. Where no prejudice
was caused there could be no cause for complaint. I am clearly of the view
that Rule 9(j) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules was directory and
not mandatory.

In Tulsiram's case (supra) this Court has laid down that Rule 9-A is only
directory and not mandatory. In the course of the judgment, there is a
reference to Dalchand's case (supra) and the ratio laid down there has been
followed and it was held as under:

The first thing to be noticed is that Rule 9-A certainly refrains from
mentioning any definite limit of time such as that found in old Rule 9(j)
which gave rise to the controversy whether the rule was mandatory or
directory, and instead uses the general expression "immediately'. The Local
(Health) Authority is now required to forward to the person from whom the
sample was taken in the manner prescribed, a copy of the report of the Public
Analyst immediately after the institution of the prosecution. While
prescribing the manner in which the report may be forwarded the opening words
of Rule 9-A "The Local (Health) Authority shall (immediately) after the
institution of prosecution forward' (bracket supplied), are borrowed verbatim
from Section 13(2) with the word "immediately' inserted in between. The rule-
making authority could never have intended to amend the statute by superadding
the word "immediately' as indeed it was not competent to do. Rule 9-A has to
be interpreted so as to keep it in tune with and within the bounds of Section
13(2).

xxx xxx xxx In the context the expression 'immediately' is only meant to
convey 'reasonable despatch and promptitude' and no more. The idea is to avoid
dilatoriness on the part of officialdom and prevention of unnecessary
harassment lo the accused. But the idea is not to penalise the prosecution and
to provide a technical defence.

xxx xxx xxx Our conclusions on this question are: The expression 'immediately'
in Rule 9-A is intended to convey a sense of continuity rather than urgency.
What must be done is to forward the report at the earliest opportunity, so as
to facilitate the exercise of the statutory right under Section 13(2) in good
and sufficient time before the prosecution commences leading evidence. Non-
compliance with Rule 9-A is not fatal, it is a question of prejudice. Applying
these principles, we find no merit in the submissions based on Rule 9-A.

The same reasoning applies to the case of non-compliance of Rule 7(3) also and
unless there is proof of prejudice, there can be no cause for complaint by the
accused.

In Craies' Statute Law, VIII Edn. at page 262 it is stated thus:

It is the duty of courts of justice to try to get at the real intention of the
legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute to be
construed.... That in each case you must look to the subject-matter, consider
the importance of the provision and the relation of that provision to the
general object intended to be secured by the Act, and upon a review of the
case in that aspect decide whether the enactment is what is called imperative
or only directory.

Likewise in State of Kerala and Ors. v. Allasserry Mohammed and Ors. , Hon
Untwalia, J. speaking for the Supreme Court and while holding that Rule 22 of
Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules is only directory, held that 'If the
object is not frustrated and is squarely and justifiably achieved without any
shadow of doubt, then it will endanger public health to acquit offenders on
technical grounds which have no substance.

19\. Therefore we are of the view that Rule 7(3) is only directory and not
mandatory. No interference is called for in this appeal. It is accordingly
dismissed.

