

Supreme Court of India

State Of Kerala And Ors vs M. Padmanabhan Nair on 17 December, 1984

Equivalent citations: 1985 AIR 356, 1985 SCR (2) 476

Author: V Tulzapurkar

Bench: Tulzapurkar, V.D.

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    STATE OF KERALA AND ORS.
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    M. PADMANABHAN NAIR
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT17/12/1984
    
    BENCH:
    TULZAPURKAR, V.D.
    BENCH:
    TULZAPURKAR, V.D.
    ERADI, V. BALAKRISHNA (J)
    
    CITATION:
     1985 AIR  356		  1985 SCR  (2) 476
     1985 SCC  (1) 429	  1984 SCALE  (2)959
    
    
    ACT:
           Service	law--Liquidated	 damages  by  way  of  penal
    interest for  delay in	payment of pension and gratuity due-
    State Government  is vicariausly  liable to  pay interest at
    the current market rate till actual payment for the culpable
    neglect of  the Treasury  Officer to  discharge his  duty of
    issuing the  Last Pay  Certificate under  Rule	186  of	 the
    Treasury  Code-Supreme	Court  cannot  interfere  and  grant
    enhanced  rate	of  interest  in  the  absence	of  a  cross
    objection against  lower rate  of interest  allowed  by	 the
    trial Court  than claimed  and there  by acquiesing  in	 the
    decree.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
           The  respondent	retired	 from  the  service  of	 the
    appellant State	 on 19.5.1973. His pension and gratuity were
    ultimately paid to him on 14.8.75 i e. after a delay of more
    than two  years and three months. A suit for the recovery of
    interest at  the rate  of 12% per annum by way of liquidated
    damages for  the delayed payment was decreed by the District
    Court allowing	interest at  6% only. In appeal by the State
    (there being  no cross	appeal) the High Court confirmed the
    decree. Hence the special leave petition.
          Dismissing the petition, the Court,
    ^
          HELD:  1:1 Pension  and gratuity	are  no	 longer	 any
    bounty to  be distributed by the government to its employees
    on their  retirement but  have become under the decisions of
    the Supreme  Court, valuable  rights and  property in  their
    hands and  any culpable delay in settlement and disbursement
    thereof must  be visited  with the  penalty  of	 payment  of
    interest at  the current  market rate  till  actual  payment
    [477C-D]
          1.2 In the instant case, though the respondent claimed
    12% interest  and unfortunately	 District Court allowed only
    6% per	annum, since  the respondent acquiesced in his claim
    being decreed  at 6%  by not preferring any cross objections
    in the	High Court,  it would  be improper  for the  Supreme
    Court to enhance the rate to 12% per annum. [478C-D]
          1.3 Under Rule 186 of the Treasury Code a duty is cast
    on  the	  Treasury  officer   to  grant	 to  every  retiring
    Government servant  the last  pay certificate which, in this
    case had  been delayed	by the	concerned officer  for which
    neither any justification or explanation had been given. The
    claim
    477
    for interest  is therefore in order and the State Government
    has rightly  been  saddled with a liability for the culpable
    neglect in  the	 discharge  of	his  duty  by  the  District
    Treasury Officer who delayed the issuance of the LPC.
    						  [478A-B,D]
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTlON: Special Leave Petition Civil No. 9425 of 1984.

From the Judgment and Order dated 1.11.83 of the Kerala High Court in A.S. No.
10 of 1979.

P.K. Pillai for the petitioners.

The Order of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR, J. Pension and gratuity
are no longer any bounty to be distributed by the Government to its employees
on their retirement but have become, under the decisions of this Court,
valuable rights and property in their hands and any culpable delay in
settlement and disbursement thereof must be visited with the penalty of
payment of interest at the current market rate till actual payment .

Usually the delay occurs by reason of non-production of the L.P.C. (Last Pay
Certificate) and the N.L.C. (No Liability Certificate) from the concerned
Departments but both these documents pertain to matters, records whereof would
be with the concerned Government Departments. Since the date of retirement of
every Government servant is very much known in advance we fail to appreciate
why the process of collecting the requisite information and issuance of these
two documents should not be completed atleast a week before the date of
retirement so that the payment of gratuity amount could be made to the
Government servant on the date he retires or on the following day and pension
at the expiry of the following month. The necessity for prompt payment of the
retirement dues to a Government servant immediately after his retirement
cannot be over-emphasised and it would not be unreasonable to diriect that the
liability to pay penal interest on these dues at the current market rate
should commence at the expiry of two months from the date of retirement.

The instant case is a glaring instance of such culpable delay in the
settlement of pension and gratuity claims due to the respondent who retired on
19.5.1973. His pension and gratuity were ultimately paid to him on 14.8.1975,
i e., more than two years and 3 months after his retirement and hence after
serving lawyer's notice 478 he filed a suit mainly to recover interest by way
of liquidated damages for delayed payment. The appellants put the blame on the
respondent for delayed payment on the ground that he had not produced the
requisite L.P.C. (last pay certificate) from the Treasury Office under Rule
186 of the Treasury Code. But on a plain reading of Rule 1 86, the High Court
held-and in our view rightly-that a duty was cast on the treasury Officer to
grant to every retiring Government servant the last pay certificate which in
this case had been delayed by the concerned officer for which neither any
justification nor explanation had been given The claim for interest was,
therefore, rightly, decreed in respondent's favour.

Unfortunately such claim for interest that was allowed in respondent's favour
by the District Court and confirmed by the High Court was at the rate of 6 per
cent per annum though interest at 12 per cent had been claimed by the
respondent in his suit. However, since the respondent acquiesced in his claim
being decreed at 6 per cent by not preferring any cross objections in the High
Court it could not be proper for us to enhance the rate to 12 per cent per
annum which we were otherwise inclined to grant.

We are also of the view that the State Government is being rightly saddled
with a liability for the culpable neglect in the discharge of his duty by the
District Treasury Officer who delayed the issuance of the L.P.C. but since the
concerned officer had not been impleaded as a party defendant to the suit the
Court is unable to hold him liable for the decretal amount. It will, however,
be for the State Government to consider whether the erring official should or
should not be directed to compensate the Government the loss sustained by it
by his culpable lapses. Such action if taken would help generate in the
officials of the State Government a sense of duty towards the Government under
whom they serve as also a sense of accountability to members of the public.

    
    
    S.R.					 Petition dismissed,
    479
    
    
    
    

