

Delhi High Court

M/S. Avis International Ltd. vs M/S. Avi Footwear Industries And ... on 10
August, 1990

Equivalent citations: AIR 1992 Delhi 22, 1990 (2) ARBLR 352 Delhi, ILR 1991
Delhi 414, 1990 RLR 395

Bench: M Narain

ORDER

1\. By this order I intend to deal with two interim applications bearing I.A.
No. 89 of 1990 and I.A. No. 2266 of 1990, which have been filed in Suit No. 18
of 1990.

2\. I.A. No. 88 of 1990 is an application under Order XXXIX Rules I and 2 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, whereby the plaintiffs seek to obtain an order of
injunction, restraining the defendants, their servants, agents, stockists,
dealers and all other persons from using the trade mark AEVIS in respect of
shoes or any other trade mark which is confusing or deceptively similar to the
registered trade mark AVIS of the plaintiffs, bearing registration No. 352018
(in clause 25). The plaintiffs state that they have got the said mark AVIS
registered in respect of readymade garments, wearing apparels including jeans,
jackets, shirts, blouses, socks, hosiery, brassieres and footwear, and that
the mark is registered on 1-8-1979.

3\. The other application bearing I.A. No. 2266 of 1990, which I am going to
deal with, is an application under O. XXXIX, R. 4 of the Code of Civil
Procedure for vacating the order of injunction granted by this Court (A. B.
Saharya, J.) on 10-1-1990, whereby this Court had restrained the defendants,
their servants, agents, stockists, dealers and all other persons on their
behalf from using the trade mark AEVIS in respect of shoes or any other trade
mark which is deceptively similar to the registered trade mark AVIS of the
plaintiffs till the next date.

4\. The case of the plaintiffs is that they are the registered owners of the
word AVIS, having coined the same and got the word AVIS registered, as
aforesaid, and being the registered owners of the word AVIS, they are entitled
by virtue of the rights conferred by the S. 28 read with S. 31 of the Trade
and Merchandise Marks Act to injunction order, restraining the defendants from
using the said mark or any other deceptively similar mark on goods, namely,
footwear. The effect of registration of the mark has been succinctly stated by
the Supreme Court in case American Home Products Corporation v. Mac
Laboratories Pvt. Ltd., as follows:-

"When a person gets his trade mark registered, he acquires valuable rights by
reason of such registration. Registration of his trade mark gives him the
exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in connection with the goods in
respect of which it is registered and if there is any invasion of this right
by any other person using a mark which is the same or deceptively similar to
his trade mark, he can protect his trade mark by an action for infringement in
which he can obtain injunction, damages or an account of profits made by the
other person."

5-6. The plaintiffs, therefore, say that they are entitled to have the
injunction confirmed.

7\. The defendants, on the other hand, in their aforesaid application under O.
XXXIX, R. 4 state that for the reason they have moved an application for
rectification of the mark, the plaintiffs are not entitled to an injunction
which has been sought. It is asserted by the defendants that the plaintiffs
have not, for a period of five years, or more, used the mark AVIS with respect
to footwear, by virtue of the provisions of S. 46(1)(b) of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act entitled to have the registered trade mark rectified and
the mark AVIS with respect to footwears removed from the register.

8\. It is contended that no document has been filed indicating that the mark
AVIS has been used by the plaintiffs in connection with footwear during the
last 5 years or more.

9\. The further case of the defendants that in view of the fact that the
rectification proceedings have been filed, it would not be appropriate to
grant the injunction which has been sought by the plaintiffs against the
defendants, as prima facie the register is liable to be rectified. For this
proposition, the defendants have referred to two judgments of this Court, both
delivered by Dalip K. Kapur J., which have been reported in 1981 Patent and
Trade Mark Cases 14, and 1981 Patent and Trade Mark Cases 260.

10\. The former case related to the use of the word RICO in connection with
sewing machines. Justice Kapur while denying the relief of injunction has not
given any reasons why he was refusing the injunction, and as such I am not
inclined to follow this judgment, especially in view of what has been stated
in .

11\. Similarly, in the case reported in 1981 Patent and Trade Mark Cases 260,
in which the mark in question was CROWN with respect to over-lock and chain
stitching machine, injunction was not granted by Justice Kapur. Even in this
case, he gave no reasons for the non-issue of the injunction.

12\. In both the aforesaid cases, Justice Kapur appeared to have refused to
grant injunction for the reason merely of the existence of the rectification
proceedings. The Supreme Court in has made the following observations with
respect to S. 46(a) and (b) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, which
deals with rectification of marks.

"Under both these clauses, the burden of proving that the facts which bring
into play Cl. (a) or (b), as the case may be, exists is on the person who
seeks to have the trade mark removed from the register. Thus, where there has
been a non-user of the trade mark for a continuous period of five years and
the application for taking of the trade mark from the Register has been filed
one month after the expiry of such period, the person seeking to have the
trade mark removed from the Register has only to prove such continuous non-
user and has not to prove the lack of a bona fide intention on the part of the
registered proprietor to use the trade mark at the date of the application for
registration. Where, however, the non-user is for a period of less than five
years, the person seeking to remove the trade mark from the Register has not
only to prove non-user for the requisite period but has also to prove that the
applicant for registration of the trade mark had no bona fide intention to use
the trade mark when the application for registration was made,"

13.At the present stage the plaintiffs assert that they have been using the
word AVIS upon the footwears for a period longer than the statutory period.
The burden to prove, that in fact there has been non-user for the period
required by the statute, is on the person who asserts it, and at the present
stage the plaintiffs assert that they have been using the word AVIS upon the
footwears.

14\. At this stage of the case, we have no affidavit against another
affidavit, and in view of the statutory provisions of Ss. 28 and 31 of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, it would be appropriate to rely upon
contentions of the plaintiffs.

15\. It is apparent that the word AEVI is not a commonly used word. The word
is not in a dictionary. Its adoption by the defendants, therefore, needed to
be explained, which the defendants have not explained in the pleadings before
the Court.

16\. Phonetically the word AVIS, which is registered mark for footwear, and
the word AEVI'S have to be pronounced identically. The business name of the
defendants is known as AVI Footwear Industries. Prima facie, if it was the
intention of the defendants by affixing the label AEVI'S on the footwear made
by them was to indicate that the footwear carrying that label is made by the
AVI Footwear Industries, then the mark they would have adopted would have been
AVI, but that they have not done. They have tried to bring their mark/ label
as close as possible phonetically to the registered mark AVIS.

17\. In my view, the statutory monopoly which has been conferred upon the
plaintiffs in connection with use of the mark AVIS for any other consideration
in relation to grant or non-grant of an injunction, especially when the matter
is at an interlocutory state, and is yet to be tried, and it cannot be
foreseen as to whether the defendants who seek rectification of the plaintiffs
mark, on account of nonuser would be able to prove their case. The statutory
registration establishes prima facie case in favor of the plaintiffs.

18\. In this view of the matter, I think that the balance of convenience would
be in favor of the plaintiffs, to ensure that by concurrent user, during the
period of the trial, no other rights come into existence. In my view, it is
very convenient, if the defendants are so minded, to adopt any other label
that establishes a connection in the course of trade with respect to the
footwear manufactured by them.

19\. Mr. K. R. Gupta also says that the mark AEVI'S was shown in the
advertisements of the defendants as a registered mark, whereas it was only a
mark for which registration is applied for. He contends that the defendants
have, therefore, made themselves liable for action for false marking on goods.

20\. Mr. K. R. Gupta also referred to (Kedar Nath v. Monga Perfumery and Flour
Mills) in which it has been stated that illegal activity cannot be permitted
to be continued when the proper remedy is to grant injunction.

21\. In my view violation of the exclusive statutory rights is illegal
activity, to hold otherwise will negate the statutory provisions of the Trade
and Merchandise Marks Act.

22\. Mr. K. R. Gupta also referred in 1969 Delhi Law Times 469 (Wearwell Cycle
Co. (India) Ltd. v. Wearwell Industries, Ludhiana and others) for the
proposition that balance of convenience concept come into operation only where
parties are on equal footings. He says that inasmuch as the plaintiffs are the
owners of the registered mark, and the defendants have no such claim, balance
of convenience is in the plaintiffs favor.

23\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I am of the view that the injunction
granted by this Court on 10-1-1990 ought to be confirmed, and the application
for vacation of that order filed by the defendants (I.A. No. 2266 of 1990)
needs to be dismissed.

24\. Ordered accordingly.

25\. Before concluding, I must record that the opinion expressed herein is
prima facie, and will not, in any manner affect the ultimate result of the
proceedings after the trial.

26\. I.A. No. 88 of 1990 is allowed and I.A. No. 2266 of 1990 is dismissed.
Suit be listed before the Deputy Registrar on 27-9-1990.

27\. Order accordingly.

