

Supreme Court of India

Dalchand vs Municipal Corporation, Bhopal ... on 11 June, 1982

Equivalent citations: AIR 1983 SC 303, 1982 (30) BLJR 420, 1983 CriLJ 448,
1982 (1) SCALE 573, (1984) 2 SCC 486, 1982 (14) UJ 559 SC

Bench: O C Reddy

ORDER

1\. One of the questions raised in this petition for special leave to appeal
to this Court is whether the failure to supply a copy of the Report of the
Public Analyst within the period of 10 days stipulated by Rule 9(j) of the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, as it was in force at the relevant time-
it may be noticed here that Rule 9(j) which was in force at the relevant time
has since been omitted with effect from January 4, 1977 -was fatal to a
prosecution under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. Was Rule 9(j)
mandatory or directory? There are no ready tests or invariable formulae to
determine whether a provision is mandatory or directory. The broad purpose of
the statute is important. The object of the particular provision must be
considered. The link between the two is most important. The weighing of the
consequence of holding a provision to be mandatory or directory is vital and,
more often that not, determinative of the very question whether the provision
is mandatory or directory. Where the design of the statute is the avoidance or
prevention of public mischief, but the enforcement of a particular provision
literally to its letter will tend to defeat that design, the provision must be
held to be directory, so that proof of prejudice in addition to non-compliance
of the provision is necessary to invalidate the act complained of. It is well
to remember that quite often many rules, though couched in language which
appears to be imperative, are no more than mere instructions to those
entrusted with the task of discharging statutory duties for public benefit.
The negligence of those to whom public duties are entrusted cannot by
statutory interpretation be allowed to promote public mischief and cause
public inconvenience and defeat the main object of the statute. It is as well
to realise that every prescription of a period within which an act must be
done is not the prescription of a period of limitation with painful
consequences if the act is not done within that period. Rule 9(j) of the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, as it then stood, merely instructed the
Food Inspector to send by Registered post copy of the Public Analyst's Report
to the person from whom the sample was taken within 10 days of the receipt of
the report. Quite obviously the period of 10 days was not a period of
limitation within which an action was to be initiated or on the expiry of
which a vested right accrued. The period of 10 days was prescribed with a view
to expedition and with the object of giving sufficient time to the person from
whom the sample was taken to make such arrangements as he might like to
challenge the report of the Public Analyst, for example, by making a request
to the Magistrate to send the other sample to the Director of the Central Food
Laboratory for analysis. Where the effect of non-compliance with the rule was
such as to wholly deprive the right of the person to challenge the Public
Analyst's Report by obtaining the report of the Director of the Central Food
Laboratory, there might be just cause for complaint, as prejudice would then
be writ large. Where no prejudice was caused there could be no cause for
complaint. I am clearly of the view that Rule 9(j) of the Prevention of Food
Adulteration Rules was directory and not mandatory. The decisions in Public
Prosecutor v. Murli Dhar 1977, Crl. Law Journal 1634 and Bhola Nath v. State
1977 Crl. Law Journal 154 to the extent that they hold that Rule 9(j) was
mandatory are not good law. The petition is dismissed.

