

Supreme Court of India

Oriental Insurance Company ... vs M/S Narbheram Power And Steel Pvt ... on 2
May, 2018

Author: M . Dipak

    
    
                                                    1
    
    
                                                                    REPORTABLE
    
    
    
                                   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
    
                                    CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
    
                                    CIVIL APPEAL NO. 2268 OF 2018
                                     (@ S.L.P. (C) No. 33621 of 2017)
    
    
                     Oriental Insurance Company Limited            Appellant (s)
    
    
    
                                                VERSUS
    
    
    
                     M/s Narbheram Power and Steel Pvt. Ltd.      Respondent(s)
    
    
    
    
                                            JUDGMENT
    

Dipak Misra, CJI.

The respondent – M/s Narbheram Power and Steel Pvt. Ltd. – had entered into a
Fire Industrial all Risk Policy No. 31150/11/2014/65 in respect of the factory
situated on plot Nos. 11 and 13, Gundichapada Industrial Estate, District –
Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2018.05.02
12:27:11 IST Dhenkanal, Odisha. In October 2013, there was a cyclone Reason:

2

named as “Phailin” which affected large parts of the State of Odisha. Because
of the said cyclone, the respondent suffered damages which it estimated at Rs.
3,93,36,224.00. An intimation was given to the appellant-insurer and it
appointed one Ashok Chopra & Company as surveyor which visited the factory
premises on 20th and 21st November, 2013. A series of correspondences were
exchanged between the respondent and the insurer. On 22.12.2014, the
respondent commented on the surveyor‟s report and requested the appellant to
settle its claim. As ultimately the claim was not settled, the respondent sent
a communication dated 21.01.2017 intimating the appellant that it had invoked
the arbitration agreement and requested it to concur with the name of the
arbitrator whom it had nominated.

2\. The appellant replied to the said letter repudiating the claim made by the
respondent and declined to refer the disputes to arbitration between the
parties. As the insurer declined to accede to the request made by the
respondent, it filed an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 (for brevity, „the 1996 Act‟) for appointment of an
arbitrator so that he could, along with the  3 arbitrator nominated by the
respondent, proceed to appoint a presiding arbitrator to adjudicate the
disputes and differences that had arisen between the parties.

3\. The said application was contested by the insurer and the High Court,
considering the language employed in Clause 13 of the policy and the reasons
advanced while repudiating the claim of the claimant, appointed a retired
Judge of the High Court as arbitrator. The said order is under assail by way
of special leave in this appeal.

4\. We have heard Mr. P.K. Seth, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr.
Sachin Datta, learned senior counsel for the respondent.

5\. Placing reliance on Clause 13 of the policy, it is urged by the learned
counsel for the appellant that once the claim was repudiated and the insurer
had disputed or not accepted the liability under or in respect of the policy,
no difference or dispute could have been referred to arbitration. It is his
further submission that the High Court has adopted an erroneous approach in
the interpretation of the said Clause by expressing the view that it suffers
from ambiguity and it needs to be purposively read failing which the
arbitration clause  4 becomes meaningless. Reliance has been placed on the
decisions in General Assurance Society Ltd. v. Chandumull Jain and another 1 ,
Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Samayanallur Primary Agricultural Co-op. Bank 2
and United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal3.

6\. Learned senior counsel for the respondent, per contra, would contend that
the order passed by the High Court is absolutely impregnable and in the
obtaining factual matrix, the view expressed by the High Court cannot be found
fault with. He would further urge that the letter of repudiation, when
appositely understood, does not relate to disputation and non-acceptance of
the liability under or in respect of the policy but, in fact, amounts to
denial of the claim that basically pertains to the quantum. Learned counsel
has drawn a distinction between liability and refusal of the claim not having
been substantiated. To bolster the submissions, he has placed reliance on The
Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd v. Maharaj Singh 1 AIR 1966 SC 1644 2 AIR 2000 SC 10
3 (2004) 8 SCC 644  5 and another 4 , Chloro Controls India Private Limited v.
Severn Trent Water Purification Inc. and others 5 , A. Ayyasamy v. A.
Paramasivam and others 6 , M/s. Jumbo Bags Ltd v. M/s. The New India Assurance
Co. Ltd 7 and Essar Steel India Limited v. The New India Assurance Co. Ltd8.

7\. To appreciate the rival submissions, it is necessary to scan and
scrutinize the arbitration clause, that is, Clause 13 of the policy. The said
Clause reads as follows:-

> “13. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid
> under this policy (liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall
> independently of all questions be referred to the decision of a sole
> arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to or if they cannot
> agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking
> arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrator,
> comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to
> the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two
> arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with
> the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.

4

(1976) 1 SCC 943 5 (2013) 1 SCC 641 6 (2016) 10 SCC 386 7 2016-2-L.W.769 8
MANU/MH/0542/2013  6 It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or
dispute shall be referable to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, if the
Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this
policy.

It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition
precedent to any right of action or suit upon this policy that the award by
such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of the loss or damage shall be first
obtained.” (Emphasis supplied)

8\. When we carefully read the aforequoted Clause, it is quite limpid that
once the insurer disputes the liability under or in respect of the policy,
there can be no reference to the arbitrator. It is contained in the second
part of the Clause. The third part of the Clause stipulates that before any
right of action or suit upon the policy is taken recourse to, prior award of
the arbitrator/arbitrators with regard to the amount of loss or damage is a
condition precedent. The High Court, as the impugned order would show, has
laid emphasis on the second part and, on that basis, opined that the second
part and third part do not have harmony and, in fact, sound a discordant note,
for the scheme cannot be split into two parts, one to be decided by the
arbitration and the other in the suit.  7

9\. Before we address the factum of repudiation and its impact on the Clause,
we think it appropriate to discuss the authorities cited by the learned
counsel for the parties. In General Assurance Society Ltd. (supra), the
Constitution Bench, while dealing with the contract of insurance, has opined
that such a contract is entered into on the basis of commercial transactions
and while interpreting the documents relating to a contract of insurance, the
duty of the court is to interpret the words in which the contract is expressed
by the parties because it is not for the court to make a new contract,
howsoever reasonable.

10\. In Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra), a two-Judge Bench has opined that
insurance policy has to be construed having reference only to the stipulations
contained in it and no artificial far-fetched meaning could be given to the
words appearing in it.

11\. In United India Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra), the Court has ruled that the
terms of the policy shall govern the contract between the parties and they are
bound to abide by the definitions given therein. That apart, the expression
appearing in the policy should be given interpretation with reference to  8
the terms of the policy and not with reference to the definitions given in any
other law because the parties have entered into the contract with eyes wide
open.

12\. The aforesaid principles are in the realm of settled position of law. The
natural corollary of the said propositions is that the parties are bound by
the clauses enumerated in the policy and the court does not transplant any
equity to the same by rewriting a clause. The Court can interpret such
stipulations in the agreement. It is because they relate to commercial
transactions and the principle of unconscionability of the terms and
conditions because of the lack of bargaining power does not arise. The said
principle comes into play in a different sphere.

13\. In this context, reference to the authority in Deep Trading Company v.
Indian Oil Corporation and others9, would be instructive. A three-Judge Bench
was dealing with the right of the respondent No. 1 therein to appoint the
arbitrator after expiry of the time period. The Court referred to Clause 29 of
the agreement that provided for procedure for appointment of the arbitrator.
After referring to the authorities 9 (2013) 4 SCC 35  9 in Datar Switchgears
Ltd. v. Tata Finance Ltd. and another10 and Punj Lloyd Ltd. v. Petronet MHB
Ltd.11, the Court held:-

> “19. If we apply the legal position exposited by this Court in Datar
> Switchgears to the admitted facts, it will be seen that the Corporation has
> forfeited its right to appoint the arbitrator. It is so for the reason that
> on 9-8-2004, the dealer called upon the Corporation to appoint the
> arbitrator in accordance with the terms of Clause 29 of the agreement but
> that was not done till the dealer had made application under Section 11(6)
> to the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court for appointment of the
> arbitrator. The appointment was made by the Corporation only during the
> pendency of the proceedings under Section 11(6). Such appointment by the
> Corporation after forfeiture of its right is of no consequence and has not
> disentitled the dealer to seek appointment of the arbitrator by the Chief
> Justice under Section 11(6). We answer the above questions accordingly.”

14\. In this regard, a reference to the authority in Newton Engineering and
Chemicals Limited v. Indian Oil Corporation Limited and others12 is fruitful.
In the said case, there was an express, clear and unequivocal arbitration
clause between the parties which provided that disputes shall be referred to
the sole arbitration of the Executive Director 10 (2000) 8 SCC 151 11 (2006) 2
SCC 638 12 (2013) 4 SCC 44  10 (Northern Region) of the respondent Corporation
and if the said authority was unable or unwilling to act as the sole
arbitrator, the matters shall be referred to the person designated by such ED
(NR) in his place who is willing to act as the sole arbitrator. The
arbitration clause further provided that if none of them is able to act as an
arbitrator, no other person should act as a sole arbitrator and if the office
of the said authority ceases to exist in the Corporation and the parties are
unable to arrive at any agreed solution, the arbitration clause would not
survive and has to be treated having worked its course. The Court,
interpreting the clause, expressed the view that in such a situation, the
Court has no power to appoint an arbitrator for resolution of the disputes.

15\. In The Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd (supra), a three-Judge Bench was
interpreting Clauses 13, 18 and 19 of the policy involved therein. For proper
appreciation, we think it appropriate to refer to the Clauses of the policy
that arose for consideration in the said authority. They read as follows:-

> “13. If the claim be in any respect fraudulent, or if any false declaration
> be made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices
> are used by the insured or anyone acting on his behalf to obtain any benefit
> under this Policy; or, if the loss  11 or damage be occasioned by the wilful
> act, or with the connivance of the insured; or, if the claim be made and
> rejected and an action or suit be not commenced within three months after
> such rejection, or (in case of an arbitration taking place in pursuance of
> the 18th condition of this Policy) within three months after the Arbitrator
> or Arbitrators or Umpire shall have made their award, all benefit under this
> Policy shall be forfeited.

> x x x

> 18\. If any difference arises as to the amount of any loss or damage such
> difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the
> decision of an Arbitrator, to be appointed in writing by the parties in
> difference, or, if they cannot agree upon a single Arbitrator to the
> decision of two disinterested persons as Arbitrators ....

> * * * And it is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a
> condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon this policy that the
> award by such Arbitrator, Arbitrators or Umpire of the amount of the loss or
> damage if disputed shall be first obtained.

19\. In no case whatever shall the company be liable for any loss or damage
after the expiration of twelve months from the happening of the loss or damage
unless the claim is the subject of pending action or arbitration.” In the said
case, the company repudiated its liability to pay any amount of loss or damage
as claimed by the claimant. The Court opined that the dispute raised by the
company appertained to its liability to pay any amount of damage whatsoever
and, therefore, the dispute raised by the appellant  12 company was not
covered by the arbitration clause. The Court scanned the anatomy of Clauses 13
and 18 and then referred to the decision in Scott v. Avery 13 naming the
clause to be Scott v. Avery clause and quoted a passage from Russel on
Arbitration which is to the following effect:-

> “Even a clause of this type, however, is not absolute in effect: where the
> court orders that the arbitration agreement cease to have effect in relation
> to a particular dispute, it has a discretion to order further that the Scott
> v. Avery clause cease to have effect too. (Vide pp. 57, 58 of Russel on
> Arbitration, Eighteenth Edn.).

> In the said case, reliance was placed on Viney v.

Bignold14 wherein it had been held that the determination of the amount by
arbitration was a condition precedent to the right to recover on the policy
and if any action was brought without an award obtained in arbitration, it was
not maintainable. The other decision that was pressed into service was
Caledonian Insurance Company v. Andrew Gilmour15. The Court commented that the
said decision was dealing with a case that contained a comprehensive
arbitration clause and 13 (1856) 25 LJ Ex 308 : 5 HLC 811 : 4 WR 746 14 (1888)
20 QBD 171,172 15 1893 AC 85 : 9 TLR 146 : 57 JP 228  13 justified the
applicability of Scott v. Avery as a bar to the maintainability of action
without an award.

16\. The three-Judge Bench noted that in O’connor v. Norwich Union Fire and
Life Insurance Society 16 , the decision in Viney v. Bignold (supra) was
distinguished and went on to reproduce a passage from Holmes, J.:-

> “Now, if it was a term of the contract that a difference of this kind was to
> be settled by arbitration, I should not hesitate to stay the action ....

> * * * But there is no provision in the plaintiff‟s policy that such a
> controversy as has arisen is to be referred to arbitration. There is a
> carefully drawn clause, by which it is agreed that the amount to be paid, as
> distinguished from liablity to pay anything, is to be settled by
> arbitrators, and that no action can be commenced until they shall have
> determined such amount. One result of this clause may be to render two
> proceedings necessary where there is a dispute as to the amount of the loss
> as well as a denial of all liability; but this ought not to be a ground of
> complaint to either of the parties who have made it a term of the contract;”
> After reproducing the said passage, the Court concurred with the said view.

16

> (1894) 2 Irish LR 723 : 28 Irish LT 95  14

17\. Reliance was placed upon a few paragraphs of the Fifth Edition of
MacGillivray on Insurance Law by the learned counsel for the respondent. The
said passage reads thus:-

> “There is a rule of law that parties cannot by their private contract oust
> the jurisdiction of the court;

but it has been held that parties to a contract may nevertheless agree that no
cause of action shall arise upon it until any matter in dispute between them
shall have been determined by arbitration and then only upon the arbitrators‟
award.” On behalf of the respondent, the following passage was taken aid of:-

> “As a rule, where the amount of the loss or damage is the only matter which
> the parties refer to arbitration, then if the insurers repudiate any
> liability on the policy there is no obligation on the assured to arbitrate
> as to the amount before commencing an action on the policy.”

18\. It is apt to mention here that the Bombay High Court in Eagle Star and
British Dominions Insurance Company v. Dinanath and Hemraj17 had interpreted
identical Clause 13. The High Court had eventually ruled:-

> “But in clause 13 there are various contingencies set out which if
> established entitle the insured to bring an action without an award having
> been made by arbitrators. One of these contingencies is „if the claim be
> made and rejected‟ which if established 17 ILR 47 Bom 509 : AIR 1923 249 :
> 25 Bom LR 164  15 gives a right of action, the period of limitation provided
> for the suit being fixed at three months from the date of the rejection.
> While it is also provided that where arbitration takes place in pursuance of
> Condition 18 of the policy, three months‟ time should be allowed for a suit
> to be brought after the award has been made. Therefore it is quite obvious
> that a right of action accrued after the company rejected the claim.
> Naturally that question would have first to be decided by suit as under
> clause 18 that question could never have been referred to arbitration.” This
> Court in The Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd (supra) approved the view of the
> Bombay High Court.

19\. At this stage, we may state, in brief, the factual score in The Vulcan
Insurance Co. Ltd. case. In the said case, the respondent therein had filed an
application under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 in the Court at
Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. As objection was taken to the jurisdiction of
that Court, the respondent re-filed it in the Delhi Court. The trial court at
Delhi dismissed the application holding that the dispute arising out of the
repudiation of the liability under Clause 13 by the insurance company was
within the scope of the arbitration agreement contained in Clause 18 and a
reference to arbitration could be made, but, as per Cause 19, the petition was
barred by limitation. On an appeal being  16 preferred, the Delhi High Court
reversed the judgment by opining that Clause 18 was restricted to differences
as to the amount of loss or damage; that reference to arbitration was not
ousted and the arbitration clause covered the dispute even if the insurance
company had repudiated the claim in toto; that the Arbitration Clause 18 was
inoperative unless the conditions contained in Clause 19 were satisfied; that
the condition mentioned therein was satisfied because the Respondent No. 1 had
commenced the arbitration on the date when he issued the notice dated October
1, 1963; and that his claim was the subject of a pending arbitration within
the meaning of Clause 19. Being of this view, the High Court had allowed the
appeal. Dislodging the judgment of the High Court, this Court ultimately
held:-

> “24. But in this case on a careful consideration of the matter we have come
> to the definite conclusion that the difference which arose between the
> parties on the company‟s repudiation of the claim made by Respondent 1 was
> not one to which the arbitration clause applied and hence the arbitration
> agreement could not be filed and no arbitrator could be appointed under
> Section 20 of the Act. Respondent 1 was ill-advised to commence an action
> under Section 20 instead of instituting a suit within three months of the
> date of repudiation to establish the company‟s liability.”  17 It is our
> obligation to mention here that though the respondent has placed reliance
> upon the said authority, yet the same does not assist him. On the contrary,
> it dispels the perception of ambiguity in Part II and Part III of the
> arbitration clause as perceived by the High Court. That apart, it throws
> light on the issue of repudiation.

20\. We may presently refer to the decision of the Madras High Court in M/s.
Jumbo Bags Ltd. (supra). In the said case, learned Chief Justice was
interpreting Clause 13 of the policy conditions. Referring to The Vulcan
Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra), he has held thus:-

> “The dispute which is not referable to arbitration, being not covered by the
> clause cannot be over the subject matter of arbitration, and the remedy of
> the insured in this case is only to institute a suit.” And again :-

> “I am of the view that the remedy of arbitration is not available to the
> petitioner herein in view of the arbitration clause specifically excluding
> the mode of adjudication of disputes by arbitration, where a claim is
> repudiated in toto. The remedy would thus only be of a civil suit in
> accordance with law.” We concur with the said view.

18

> 21\. In Essar Steel India Limited (supra), the learned Single Judge of the
> Bombay High Court was dealing with a situation where the insurer had taken
> the stand that the policy was void ab initio. Repelling the said stand, the
> learned Single Judge held that the disputes could be referred to arbitration
> since the plea advanced by the owner could be decided by the arbitrator.

We do not intend to dwell upon the correctness of the said decision as the
issue involved in the present case is quite different.

22\. In A. Ayyasamy (supra), a two-Judge Bench was concerned with the issue as
to whether the plea of fraud can be adequately taken care of by the
arbitrator. Sikri. J., analyzing the facts, opined:-

> “28. We, therefore, are of the opinion that the allegations of purported
> fraud were not so serious which cannot be taken care of by the arbitrator.
> The courts below, therefore, fell in error in rejecting the application of
> the appellant under Section 8 of the Act. Reversing these judgments, we
> allow these appeals and as a consequence, application filed by the appellant
> under Section 8 in the suit is allowed thereby relegating the parties to the
> arbitration.” Chandrachud J., in his concurring opinion, after referring to
> many an authority and literature in the field of arbitration, came to hold:-

19

> “53. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, should in my view be
> interpreted so as to bring in line the principles underlying its
> interpretation in a manner that is consistent with prevailing approaches in
> the common law world.

> Jurisprudence in India must evolve towards strengthening the institutional
> efficacy of arbitration. Deference to a forum chosen by parties as a
> complete remedy for resolving all their claims is but part of that
> evolution. Minimising the intervention of courts is again a recognition of
> the same principle.” He has further held that the mere allegation of fraud
> in the factual scenario was not sufficient to detract the parties from the
> obligation to submit their disputes to arbitration keeping in view the
> letter and spirit of the 1996 Act. The decision, in our considered view, is
> not applicable to the case at hand.

23\. Though the learned counsel for the respondent has referred to the case of
Chloro Controls India Private Limited (supra), yet the same need not be
analyzed as it is not an authority remotely relevant for deciding the lis in
the present case.

24\. It does not need special emphasis that an arbitration clause is required
to be strictly construed. Any expression in the clause must unequivocally
express the intent of arbitration.  20 It can also lay the postulate in which
situations the arbitration clause cannot be given effect to. If a clause
stipulates that under certain circumstances there can be no arbitration, and
they are demonstrably clear then the controversy pertaining to the appointment
of arbitrator has to be put to rest.

25\. In the instant case, Clause 13 categorically lays the postulate that if
the insurer has disputed or not accepted the liability, no difference or
dispute shall be referred to arbitration. The thrust of the matter is whether
the insurer has disputed or not accepted the liability under or in respect of
the policy. The rejection of the claim of the respondent made vide letter
dated 26.12.2014 ascribes the following reasons:-

> “1. Alleged loss of imported coal is clearly an inventory shortage.

> 2\. There was no actual loss of stock in process.

> 3\. The damage to the sponge iron is due to inherent vice.

> 4\. The loss towards building/sheds etc. are exaggerated to cover insured
> maintenance.

> 5\. As there is no material damage thus business interruption loss does not
> triggered.”  21

26\. The aforesaid communication, submits the learned senior counsel for the
respondent, does not amount to denial of liability under or in respect of the
policy. On a reading of the communication, we think, the disputation squarely
comes within Part II of Clause 13. The said Part of the Clause clearly spells
out that the parties have agreed and understood that no differences and
disputes shall be referable to arbitration if the company has disputed or not
accepted the liability. The communication ascribes reasons for not accepting
the claim at all. It is nothing else but denial of liability by the insurer in
toto. It is not a disputation pertaining to quantum. In the present case, we
are not concerned with regard to whether the policy was void or not as the
same was not raised by the insurer. The insurance-company has, on facts,
repudiated the claim by denying to accept the liability on the basis of the
aforesaid reasons. No inference can be drawn that there is some kind of
dispute with regard to quantification. It is a denial to indemnify the loss as
claimed by the respondent. Such a situation, according to us, falls on all
fours within the concept of denial of disputes and non-acceptance of
liability. It is not one of the arbitration clauses which can be interpreted
in a  22 way that denial of a claim would itself amount to dispute and,
therefore, it has to be referred to arbitration. The parties are bound by the
terms and conditions agreed under the policy and the arbitration clause
contained in it. It is not a case where mere allegation of fraud is leaned
upon to avoid the arbitration. It is not a situation where a stand is taken
that certain claims pertain to excepted matters and are, hence, not
arbitrable. The language used in the second part is absolutely categorical and
unequivocal inasmuch as it stipulates that it is clearly agreed and understood
that no difference or disputes shall be referable to arbitration if the
company has disputed or not accepted the liability. The High Court has fallen
into grave error by expressing the opinion that there is incongruity between
Part II and Part III. The said analysis runs counter to the principles laid
down in the three-Judge Bench decision in The Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd
(supra). Therefore, the only remedy which the respondent can take recourse to
is to institute a civil suit for mitigation of the grievances. If a civil suit
is filed within two months hence, the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation
Act, 1963 will enure to its benefit.

23

27\. In view of the aforesaid premised reasons, the appeal is allowed and the
order passed by the High Court is set aside. In the facts and circumstances of
the case, there shall be no order as to costs.

…………………………....CJI.

(Dipak Misra) ………………………….….J.

(A.M. Khanwilkar) ……………………………..J.

(Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud) New Delhi;

May 02, 2018

