

Supreme Court of India

Afsar Sheikh And Anr vs Soleman Bibi And Ors on 6 November, 1975

Equivalent citations: 1976 AIR 163, 1976 SCR (2) 327

Author: R S Sarkaria

Bench: Sarkaria, Ranjit Singh

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    AFSAR SHEIKH AND ANR.
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    SOLEMAN BIBI AND ORS.
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT06/11/1975
    
    BENCH:
    SARKARIA, RANJIT SINGH
    BENCH:
    SARKARIA, RANJIT SINGH
    CHANDRACHUD, Y.V.
    GUPTA, A.C.
    
    CITATION:
     1976 AIR  163		  1976 SCR  (2) 327
     1976 SCC  (2) 142
    
    
    ACT:
         Contract Act  (9 of 1872) s. 16-Undue influence-Court's
    approach in  a case  where a transaction is sought to be set
    aside on ground of undue influence.
         Code of Civil Procedure (Act 5 of 1908), O. 6 rr. 2 and
    4-Plea of  fraud and  misrepresentation-Court spelling out a
    plea of undue influence-Property.
         Code of  Civil Procedure  (Act 5 of 1908), ss. 100, 101
    and 103-High Court's power under in second appeal.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
         The predecessor-in-interest  of the respondents filed a
    suit for  a declaration	 that the  Hiba-bil-Ewaz executed by
    him  was   void	  and	inoperative   due   to	 fraud	 and
    misrepresentation proceeding from the appellant (donee), the
    allegation being  that the  appellant represented it to be a
    deed of cancellation of a will.
         The trial court and the first appellate court dismissed
    the suit. In second appeal, the High Court remanded the case
    to the	first appellate court holding that the finding given
    by the	court below  that the  plaintiff  had  executed	 the
    document after	knowing its  contents was  not sufficient in
    law to	throw out  the plaintiff's case, because, in view of
    the  allegations  in  the  plaint  that	 the  appellant	 was
    assisting him  in the management of his property and that as
    a result  thereof the  plaintiff had developed confidence in
    the appellant  which  was  abused  by  him  by	getting	 the
    document executed  in his  favour by  the plaintiff,  it was
    incumbent on the court to find out whether the done was in a
    position to  dominate the  will of  the donor. After remand,
    the first  appellate court  again dismissed  the suit.	In a
    further second	appeal, the High Court allowed the appeal on
    the ground  that the  written  statement  of  the  appellant
    contained a clear admission of intimate relationship between
    the parties  indicative of the possibility of dominating the
    will of	 the plaintiff	by the	appellant, and consequently,
    the onus  had shifted  on the  appellant to  show  that	 the
    plaintiff had  access to  independent advice,  and since the
    appellant did  not produce  any such evidence, the plaintiff
    should have  been taken to have proved that the document was
    vitiated by the undue influence of the appellant.
         Allowing the appeal to this Court.
    ^
         HELD :  The finding of the first appellate court to the
    effect that  the plaintiff  had failed	to  prove  that	 the
    appellant was  in a  position to  dominate his	will was not
    wrong or  unreasonable. In  any case, it did not suffer from
    any  illegality,  omission,  error  or	defect	such  as  is
    referred to  in s.100(1)  C.P.C. It is a finding of fact and
    the High  Court in  second appeal,  had no  jurisdiction  to
    interfere with it even if it appeared to be erroneous to the
    High Court, the error not being of the kind indicated in the
    sub-section. [338 C-D]
         (1) The  High Court  in second appeal has tried to make
    out a  new case	 for the plaintiff, of undue influence which
    was neither  pleaded adequately	 in the	 plaint nor  put  in
    issue nor  raised in  the trial court or the first appellate
    court on the first occasion. [332 D-E]
         (a)  The	pleas  of   undue   influence,	 fraud	 and
    misrepresentation are  in law  distinct categories  and	 are
    somewhat inconsistent  with one another. In view of 0 6, r.4
    read  with   0.6,  r.2,	 C.P.C.	 they  are  required  to  be
    separately  pleaded   with  specificity,  particularity	 and
    precision. [332 H-333 A]
    328
         (b) The specific case set up in the plaint was that the
    document  was	vitiated  by   fraud  and  misrepresentation
    practised by the appellant. [332 E]
         (c)  A  general  allegation  in  the  plaint  that	 the
    plaintiff was  a simple	 old man of 90 years who had reposed
    great confidence  in the  appellant was totally insufficient
    to amount  to an  averment of  undue influence	of which the
    High Court  could take	notice. Apart  from this general and
    nebulous allegation  no particulars  of undue influence were
    pleaded. Even  the mere	 relationship between  the plaintiff
    and the	 appellant (appellant was the grandson of the sister
    of the	mother of  the plaintiff)  was not disclosed. It was
    not particularised  how the  appellant was  in a position to
    dominate the  will of  the  plaintiff,	in  what  manner  he
    exercised that influence, and how it was `undue' influence.
    					  [332 E-G; 333 A-C]
         (a) All that has been said in the written statement was
    that the  relationship subsisting  between the plaintiff and
    the appellant  was marked by love and affection and was skin
    to that	 of father  and son.  This  pleading  could  not  be
    reasonably construed  as an  admission	that  he  was  in  a
    position to dominate the will of the plaintiff. Normally, it
    would be  the father  and not  the son	who would  be  in  a
    position of  dominating influence. In spelling out a plea of
    undue  influence   for	the   plaintiff	  by   an   inverted
    construction of	 the appellant's  written statement the High
    Court  over-looked  the	 principle  of	the  maxim  secundum
    allegataet probata  that the plaintiff could succeed only by
    what he had alleged and proved. [333 D-G]
         (2)(a) The	 law relating to undue influence is the same
    as that	 embodied in s. 16, Indian Contract Act, 1872. Under
    s. 16(1) the Court must consider two things, namely, (i) are
    the relations  between the  donor and  donee such  that	 the
    donee is  in a	position to dominate the will of the donor ?
    and (ii)  has the  donee, in  fact, used  that	position  to
    obtain an  unfair advantage over the donor ? Under s. 16(3),
    if the	person seeking	to avoid a transaction on the ground
    of undue  influence, establishes  that the  person  who	 had
    obtained the benefit was in a position to dominate his will,
    and that  the transaction  was	unconscionable,	 the  burden
    shifts on  the party  who had  obtained the  benefit to show
    that the  transaction was  not induced	by undue  influence.
    Therefore, there  are three  stages to	be considered by the
    Court, in a case of undue influence in the order specified :
    (i) Whether  the party seeking relief on the ground of undue
    influence has  proved that the relations between the parties
    are such  that one  is in a position to dominate the will of
    the other;  (ii) it is not sufficient for the person seeking
    relief to show merely that the relations of the parties have
    been such  that one  naturally relied  upon  the  other	 for
    advice and  that the other was in a position to dominate the
    will of	 the first  in giving  it. That	 is, making out mere
    influence is  not sufficient  and  something  more  must  be
    proved so  as to  render the  influence `undue'	 in law; and
    (iii) if  the transaction appears to be unconscionable, then
    the burden  of proving	that it	 was not  induced  by  undue
    influence lies	upon the  person who  was in  a position  to
    dominate the will of the other.
    					       [334 F-336 B]
         Subhash Chandra  v. Gana  Prasad [1967] 1 S.C.R. 331 at
    334; Raghunath	Prasad v.  Sarju  Prasad  51  I.A.  101	 and
    Poosathurai v.	Kappanna Chattiar  and others,	47  I.A.  1,
    followed.
         (b) The  High  Court  in  the  present  case,  did	 not
    consider the  propositions in  the order  indicated and	 was
    thus led to a wrong decision. [336 B]
         (c)  The	first  appellate   court  after	  a  careful
    examination of	the evidence  found  the  first	 two  stages
    against	 the  plaintiff.  It  has  held	 that  although	 the
    relationship between  the donor	 and the  donee was intimate
    like  that   of	 father	 and  son  characterised  by  mutual
    cordiality and affection, the donee was not in a position to
    dominate the  will of  the donor, that the appellant did not
    exercise any  undue influence  on the plaintiff and that the
    Hiba-bil-Ewaz was  voluntarily	executed  by  the  plaintiff
    after understanding  its contents  and effect.	The evidence
    shows that  (i) Though	the plaintiff was an old man, he was
    quite fit  to  look  after  his	 own  affairs  and  that  he
    deliberately overstated	 his age  in the  plaint. (ii) There
    was nothing to show that his mental capacity was temporarily
    329
    or permanently	affected or  enfeebled by  old age  or other
    cause so that he could not understand the nature of the deed
    and the	 effect and consequences of its execution. [336 B-C,
    E-G]
         (iii) The	scribe gave  evidence that  the document was
    prepared according  to the  instructions of the plaintiff in
    the presence  of the attesting witnesses and that he read it
    out to	the plaintiff  who accepted  it as  correct and then
    affixed this thumb mark. [337 B-C]
         (iv) The  attesting witness corroborated the scribe and
    the  trial   court  and	  the  first   appellate  court	 had
    concurrently   found   that   these   two   witnesses	were
    respectable, independent and disinterested persons, and that
    their evidence was credit-worthy. [337 D-E]
         (v) The  scribe of	 the document  which  cancelled	 the
    registered will	 did not,  in his  evidence, state  that the
    appellant  was	present	 when  that  deed  was	written	 and
    executed, and  so, the	appellant could	 not have  come into
    possession of  the cancellation deed to enable him to induce
    by misrepresentation or undue influence the execution of the
    Hiba-bil-Ewaz. [337 F-G]
         (vi) The  plaintiff in  his evidence refused to concede
    that he	 had brought up the appellant as a son from his very
    infancy and  that the  latter used  to look after his lands,
    thus destroying	 the slender basis from which the High Court
    spelt out  fiduciary relationship.  But	 assuming  that	 the
    Hiba-bil-Ewaz was  induced by the influence of the appellant
    in whom	 the plaintiff	reposed confidence  such as a father
    does in	 his son,  it had not been proved that the influence
    was undue. There is no presumption of undue influence in the
    case of	 a gift	 to a  son even when made during the donor's
    illness and a few days before his death. [336C-D, H-377B]
         Halsbury's Laws  of England, 3rd Edition, Volume 17, p.
    674, referred to.
         (3) The  first appellate  court also held that the gift
    was acted  upon by  the parties,  that the appellant entered
    into possession	 of the	 gifted land,  and that	 it was	 the
    plaintiff's natural  son who did not like the property being
    given to  the appellant	 that was responsible for the filing
    of the suit. [337 G-338 B]
         (4)(a) The	 High Court was incompetent in second appeal
    to reverse  the findings  of fact recorded, after remand, by
    the first  appellate court.  The scope	of the powers of the
    High Court  to interfere in second appeal with the judgments
    and decrees of the courts below is indicated in ss. 100, 101
    and 103,  C.P.C. The  effect of	 ss. 100  and 101  is that a
    second appeal is competent only on the ground of an error in
    law or	prcedure and not merely on the ground of an error on
    a question  of fact, however, gross or inexcusable the error
    may seem to be. Section 103 enables the High Court in second
    appeal	where  the  evidence  on  record  is  sufficient  to
    determine an issue of fact necessary for the disposal of the
    appeal, only;  (a) if  the lower  appellate  court  has	 not
    determined that	 issue of  fact, or (b) if it has determined
    that issue  wrongly by	reason of  any illegality,  omission
    error or defect such as is referred to in s. 101.
    					       [333 G-334 C]
         Msi. Durga	 Chaudhrani v.	Jawahar Singh  17  I.A.	 122
    (P.C.) referred to.
         (b) It is well settled that a question whether a person
    was in	a position  to dominate	 the  will  of	another	 and
    procured a  certain deed by undue influence is a question of
    fact and  a finding  thereon is	 a finding  of fact,  and if
    arrived	 at   fairly  in   accordance  with   the  procedure
    prescribed it is not liable to be reopened in second appeal.
    [334 C-D]
         Satgur Prasad  v. Har Narain Das, 59 I.A. 147 and Ladli
    Parshad Jaiswal	 v. The Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd., [1964] 1
    S.C.R. 270, referred to.
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 898 of 1968\.

From the Judgment and Decree dated the 9th November, 1967 of the Patna High
Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No. 779/65.

330

Sarjoo Prasad and S. N. Prasad for the Appellants. B. P. Singh for the
Respondent.

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SARKARIA, J.-This appeal by special
leave is directed against a judgment, dated November 9, 1967, of the Patna
High Court decreeing the plaintiff's suit after reversing the judgment of the
Additional District Judge, Dumka.

One Ebad Sheikh, the predecessor-in-interest of the respondents herein
instituted a suit in the Court of Subordinate Judge at Pakur in 1960 for a
declaration that the Hiba bil-Ewaz, dated February 9, 1959, executed by him,
was void and inoperative due to fraud and misrepresentation proceeding from
the donee, Afsar Sheikh, original defendant No. 1 (appellant No. 1 herein).
Ebad claimed a further declaration, confirming his possession over the suit
lands which were the subject of the Hiba. In the alternative, he prayed for
possession thereof.

The plaintiff's case as laid in the plaint, is that he is an illiterate,
simple villager, aged about 90 years. On April 2, 1957, one Saifuddin
fraudulently got executed and registered a will, dated April 2, 1957, by the
plaintiff in favour of the former and his wife in respect of the suit lands.
When this fraud was discovered by the plaintiff, he brought it to the notice
of Afsar-appellant, a distant relation who was in his confidence and used to
help him in cultivation of his lands. Afsar Sheikh on February 3, 1959, took
the plaintiff to Pakur for execution and registration of a deed cancelling the
Will. A cancellation deed was drawn up and executed by the plaintiff, but it
could not be presented for registration on that date on account of some delay.
On February 9, 1959, Afsar again took the plaintiff to Pakur and represented
that the cancellation deed which was prepared on February 3, 1959, had been
misplaced and lost, and consequently it was necessary to execute a fresh deed
of cancellation. With this misrepresentation, Afsar got executed and
registered in his favour a Hiba-bil-Ewaz purporting to be a transfer of 12 1/2
Bighas of lands by the plaintiff. Thereafter, Afsar sold some of the land
which he had obtained under the Hiba-bil-Ewaz to defendant-appellant

2\. This sale-deed executed by Afsar was bogus and without consideration and
did not confer any title or interest on the transferee.

In his written statement, Afsar, defendant denied the allegations of fraud and
misrepresentation. He averred that his grandmother was the sister of the
plaintif's mother. The defendant's father died when he was an infant. The
plaintiff brought him up as a son. Since his very infancy, the defendant has
been living with the plaintiff, managing his affairs and treating him as his
father. The defendant further stated that the plaintiff has transferred 10 to
12 Bighas of land to his natural son and an equal area to his second wife. Out
of love and affection, the plaintiff conferred a similar benefit on the
defendant and voluntarily executed the Hiba-bil-Ewaz after receiving from the
donee 331 a dhoti as a symbolic consideration therefor. He denied that the
plaintiff at the time of the gift was too old and infirm. According to him,
the plaintiff was not more than 75 years of age. He further averred that he
was in possession of the suit lands ever since the execution of the Hiba.

After considering the pleadings, the trial court framed three Issues. Issue
No. 2 as recast on August 8, 1961, was as follows :

> "Is the Hiba-bil-Ewaz void and inoperative, having been fraudulently
> obtained by defendant 1st party, as alleged by the plaintiff? Was it
> executed bona fide by the plaintiff out of his own free will and given
> effect to so as to confer valid title upon defendant 1st party with respect
> to the lands in suit?"

The trial court found that there was no fraud or misrepresentation on the part
of Afsar. If further held that the done was in possession of the gifted lands
ever since the gift. In the result, it dismissed the suit.

Aggrieved, the plaintiff preferred an appeal to the District Judge, who by his
judgment, dated July 3, 1962, dismissed the same, and affirmed the findings of
the trial court.

The plaintiff carried a second appeal to the High Court. The appeal was heard
by a learned Single Judge who held that "the mere finding as given by the
court below that the plaintiff in the present case had executed the document
after knowing its contents is not sufficient in law to throw out the
plaintiff's case" because in view of the allegation in the plaint "that
defendant No. 1 was assisting him in the management of his property and that
as a result thereof the plaintiff had developed confidence in him, which,
according to the plaintiff, was abused in getting the document dated 9-2-59,
executed by the plaintiff", it was incumbent on the court below to find out
whether the donee was in a position to dominate the will of the donor in
giving advice. In the opinion of the learned Judge, if the trial court had
come to the conclusion in favour of the allegations made by the plaintiff then
the onus in that case would have shifted to defendant No. 1 to establish that
he did not abuse his position and that the deed of Hiba-bil-Ewaz though
unconscionable on the very face of it, was not brought about by any undue
influence on his part. By his judgment, dated October 16, 1963, he remanded
the case to the District Judge "for a fresh hearing on the material already on
the record" for recording findings as to whether Afsar had obtained the Hiba-
bil-Ewaz by exercising undue influence over the plaintiff, whether
consideration had been given for the Hiba-bil-Ewaz and whether the alleged
donee had been in possession of the gifted lands.

After the remand, the Additional District Judge, Dumka by his judgment, dated
June 18, 1965, again affirmed the findings of the trial court. He further
found that there was nothing to show that 332 Afsar was in a position to
dominate the will of the plaintiff or had got the Hiba-bil-Ewaz executed by
exercising undue influence.

Against this judgment, dated June 18, 1965, of the Additional District Judge,
the paintiff preferred a Second Appeal in the High Court. This appeal came up
for hearing before another learned Judge who by his Judgment dated November
19, 1967, allowed the same and set aside the judgments of the courts below, on
the ground that the written statement of the defendant contained a clear
admission of intimate relationship between the parties indicative of the
"possibility" of dominating the will of the plaintiff by defendant No. 1 and
consequently the onus had shifted on the defendant to show that the plaintiff
had access to independant advice. Since the defendant did not produce any
evidence to show that he had refrained from dominating the will of the
plaintiff in obtaining the Hiba- bil-Ewaz, "the plaintiff should have been
taken to have proved that the document was vitiated by undue influence of
defendant No. 1". The learned Judge did not, in terms, set aside the
concurrent finding of the courts below on Issue No. 2 relating to fraud and
misrepresentation.

Against the judgment of the High Court, the defendants have come in appeal
before us.

We have heard the learned Counsel on both sides and carefully scrutinised the
record. We are of opinion that the judgment of the High Court, cannot be
upheld as it suffers from manifest errors.

The High Court has tried in Second appeal to make out a new case for the
plaintiff on the ground of undue influence which was neither pleaded
adequately in the plaint, nor put in issue.

The specific case set up in the plaint was that the Hiba-bil-Ewaz in question
was vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation practised by Afsar defendant. It
was in that context it was stated in a general way, that the plaintiff was a
simple, illiterate man of 90 years, and had great confidence in Afsar, and
"the parties used to help each other in respective cultivation". Apart from
this general and nebulous allegation, no particulars of a plea of undue
influence were pleaded. Even the near relationship between the plaintiff and
Afsar was not disclosed. It was not particularised how Afsar was in a position
to dominate the will of the plaintiff, in what manner he exercised that
influence, how the influence, if any, used by Afsar over him was "undue", and
how and in what circumstances the Hiba-bil- Ewaz was an `unfair' or
unconscionable transaction. In short no material particulars showing that the
transaction was vitiated by undue influence were pleaded. Rather somewhat
inconsistently with a plea of undue influence, it was alleged that the Hiba
was tainted by fraud, misrepresentation and deceit practised by Afsar.

While it is true that `undue influence', `fraud', `misrepresentation' are
cognate vices and may, in part, overlap in some cases, they are in law
distinct categories, and are in view of Order 6, Rule 4, read 333 with Order
6, r.2, of the Code of Civil Procedure, required to be separtely pleaded, with
specificity, particularity and precision. A general allegation in the plaint,
that the plaintiff was a simple old man of ninety who had reposed great
confidence in the defendant, was much too insufficient to amount to an
averment of undue influence of which the High Court could take notice,
particularly when no issue was claimed and no contention was raised on that
point at any stage in the trial court, or, in the first round, even before the
first appellate court.

The High Court has tried to spell out a plea of undue influence by referring
to paragraph 7 of the written statement in which the defendant inter-alia
stated that he was "looked after and brought up by the plaintiff as his son
and he became very much attached to the plaintiff and since his infancy till
the middle of this year this defendant always lived with the plaintiff and
used to treat him as his father helped him and looked after all his affairs."
This paragraph, according to the learned Judge, contains "a clear admission of
the intimate relationship between the two indicative of the position of
dominating the will of the plaintiff by defendant No. 1"

We are, with due respect, unable to appreciate this antic construction put on
the defendants' pleading. All that has been said in the written statement is
that the relationship subsisting between the plaintiff and the defendant was
marked by love and affection, and was akin to that of father and son.
Normally, in such paternal relationship, the father, and not the son, is in a
position of dominating influence. The defendant's pleading could not be
reasonably construed as an admission, direct or inferential, of the fact that
he was in a position to dominate the will of the plaintiff. In spelling out a
plea of undue influence for the plaintiff by an `inverted' construction of the
defendants' pleading, the High Court overlooked the principle conveyed by the
maxim secundum allegataet probata, that the plaintiff could succeed only by
what he had alleged and proved. He could not be allowed to travel beyond what
was pleaded by him and put in issue. On his failure to prove his case as
alleged, the court could not conjure up a new case for him by stretching his
pleading and reading into it something which was not there, nor in issue, with
the aid of an extraneous document. Thus considered, the High Court was in
error when by its judgment, dated October 16, 1963, it remanded the case to
the first appellate Court with a direction to determine the question of undue
influence "on material already on record."

Be that as it may, the High Court was not competant, in second appeal, to
reverse the finding of fact recorded, after the remand, by the first appellant
Court, to the effect, that Afsar was not in a position to dominate the will of
the plaintiff, and he did not exercise any undue influence on the plaintiff to
obtain the Hiba-bil-Ewaz, which was voluntarily executed by the plaintiff
after understanding its contents and effect.

334

The scope of the powers of the High Court to interfere in second appeal with
judgments and decrees of courts below is indicated in ss. 100, 101, and 103 of
the Code of Civil Procedure. Broadly, the effect of ss. 100 and 101, read
together, is that second appeal is competent only on the ground of an error in
law or procedure, and not merely on the ground of an error on a question of
fact. The High Court has no jurisdiction to entertain a second appeal on the
"ground of a erroneous finding of fact, however gross or inexcusable the error
may seem to be" (Mst. Durga Choudhrani v. Jawhar Singh) (1). Section 103
enables the High Court in second appeal, where the evidence on the record is
sufficient, to determine an issue of fact necessary for the disposal of the
appeal only-

> (a) if the lower appellate Court has not determined that issue of fact, or

> (b) if it has determined that issue wrongly by reason of any illegality,
> omision, error or defect much as is referred to in sub-section (1) of
> Section 100.

It is well settled that a question whether a person was in a position to
dominate the will of another and procured a certain deed by undue influence,
is a question of fact, and a finding thereon is a finding of fact and if
arrived at fairly, in accordance with the procedure prescribed, is not liable
to be reopened in second appeal (Satgur Prasad v. Har Narain Das;(2) Ladli
Prashad Jaiswal v. The Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd.(3).

Bearing in mind the provisions of  s. 103 read with s.100(1), the further
question to be considered is: Was the finding of the first appellate Court on
the point of undue influence vitiated by an illegality, omission, error of
defect such as is referred to in s. 100(1)? For reasons to be stated
presently, the answer to this question must be in the negative.

The law as to undue influence in the case of a gift inter vivos is the same as
in the case of a contract. It is embodied in  s. 16 of the Indian Contract
Act. Sub-section (1) of s. 16 defines 'undue influence' in general terms. It
provides that to constitute 'undue influence' two basic elements must be
cumulatively present. First, the relations subsisting between the parties are
such that one of the parties is in a position to dominate the will of the
other. Second, the party in dominant position uses that position to obtain an
unfair advantage over the other. Both these conditions must be pleaded with
particularity and proved by the person seeking to avoid the transaction.

In view of this sub-section, the Court trying a case of undue influence of the
kind before us, must, to start with, consider two things, namely, (1) are the
relations between the donor and the donee such that the donee is in a position
to dominate the will of the donor? and (2) has the donee used that position to
obtain an 335 unfair advantage over the donor ? (Subhas Chandra v. Gana
Prasad). (1) Sub-section (2) of s. 16 is illustrative as to when a person is
considered to be in a position to dominate the will of the other. It gives
three illustrations of such a position, which adapted to the facts of the
present case, would be (a) whether the donee holds a real or apparent
authority over the donor, (b) whether he stands in a fiduciary relation to the
donor, or (c) whether he makes the transaction with a person whose mental
capacity is temporarily or permanently affected by reason of age, illness or
mental or bodily distress.

Sub-section (3) contains a rule of evidence. According to this rule, if a
person seeking to avoid a transaction on the ground of undue influence proves-

> (a) that the party who had obtained the benefit was, at the material time,
> in a position to dominate the will of the other conferring the benefit, and

> (b) that the transaction is unconscionable, the burden shifts on the party
> benefitting by the transaction to show that it was not induced by undue
> influence. If either of these two conditions is not established the burden
> will not shift. As shall be disussed presently, in the instant case the
> first condition had not been established, and consequently, the burden never
> shifted on the defendant.

In Subhas Chandra case (ibid), this Court quoted with approval the
observations of the Privy Council in Raghunath Prasad v. Sarju Prasad(2) which
expounded three stages for consideration of a case of undue influence. It was
pointed out that the first thing to be considered is, whether the plaintiff or
the party asking relief on the ground of undue influence has proved that the
relations between the parties to each other are such that one is in a position
to dominate the will of the other. Upto this point 'influence' alone has been
made out. Once that position is substantiated, the second stage has been
reached -namely, the issue whether the transaction has been induced by undue
influence. That is to say, it is not sufficient for the person seeking the
relief to show that the relations of the parties have been such that the one
naturally relied upon the other for advice, and the other was in a position to
dominate the will of the first in giving it. "More than mere influence must be
proved so as to render influence in the language of the law, 'undue'
(Poosathurai v. Kappanna Chettiar and others).(3) Upon a determination of the
issue at the second stage, a third point emerges, which is of the onus
probandi". If the transaction appears be unconscionable, then the burden of
proving that it was not induced by undue influence is to lie upon the person
who was in a position to dominate the will of the other.

336

"Error is almost sure to arise if the order of these propositions be changed.
The unconscionableness of the bargain is not the first thing to be considered.
The first thing to be considered is the relations of the parties. Were they
such as to put one in a position to dominate the will of the other".

In the present case the High Court did not consider the propositions in the
order indicated above, and this led to a wrong decision.

In the case before us, after a careful examination of the evidence on record,
the first appellate Court found the points to be considered at the first two
stages, against the plaintiff. It held that although the relationship between
the donor and the donee was intimate, like that of father and son
characterised by mutual cordiality and affection, the donee was not in a
position to dominate the will of the donor. No less a witness than the donor
himself, as R.W. 10, emphatically maintained in cross-examination : "Afsar
worked sometimes as my labourer on wages and I don't understand what
confidence has got to do with it." He intransigently refused to concede even
the stark fact-which was otherwise found fully established-that he had brought
up Afsar as a son from his very infancy and the latter used to look after the
former's lands.

Thus, even the slander shred in the plaint from which the High Court tried to
spell out a whole pattern of fiduciary relationship between the parties and a
position of dominant influence for Afsar, was torn and destroyed by the
plaintiff himself in the witness-stand.

In the context of the first-stage consideration, the District Judge found on
the basis of the evidence on record, that although the plaintiff was an old
man-and he had intentionally, far overstated his ageyet he was quite fit to
look after his affairs. On this point, the District Judge accepted the version
of the plaintiff's own witness (PW 7) which was to the effect, that the
plaintiff himself yokes the bullocks, and unaided by anybody else, ploughs his
lands. In the face of such evidence, the District Judge was right in holding
that Ebad plaintiff, though old, was physically fit to carry on his affairs.
There was no evidence to show that the mental capacity of the donor was
temporarlly or permanently affected or enfeebled by old age or other cause, so
that he could not understand the nature of deed or the effect and consequences
of its execution. The mere fact that he was illiterate and old, was no proof
of such mental incapacity. None of the circumstances mentioned in sub-section
(2) of s. 16, had been proved from which an inference could be drawn that the
donee was in a position to dominate the will of the donor.

The failure of the plaintiff to prove this element of 'undue infuence', which
was to be considered at the first stage, would itself lead to the collapse of
the whole ground of "undue influence".

Assuming for the sake of argument that the "Hiba-bil- Ewaz was induced by
influence of Afsar, in whom the former reposed confidence such as a father
does, in his son, then also it had not been proved that 337 such infiuence was
'undue'. As a rule "there is no presumption of undue influence in the case of
a gift to a son...... although made during the donor's illness and a few days
before his death". (Halsbury's Laws of England 3rd Ed. Vol. 17, p. 674).

The District Judge has held (as per his judgment dated 18-6-1965) that the
plaintiff executed the Hiba-bil-Ewaz of his own free will after understanding
the contents of the deed.

Indeed, the evidence of the deed writer, DW 6, who knew Ebad for about 5 years
previously, was to the effect that he had scribed the deed (Hiba-bil-Ewaz)
according to Ebad's instructions in the presence of the attesting witnesses.
DW 6 then read out the contents of the deed to Ebad, who accepted the same to
be correct and then thumbmarked it. This account of the witness was not
challenged in crossexamination.

D.W. 7 is an attesting witness of the deed. He was the Sarparch of Birkiti
Gram Panchayat. He had come to the Registration Office at Pakur on that day in
connection with his own business. He was known to Ebad. According to the
witness, it was Ebad, the donor,- and not the donee-who had requested the
witness to attest the deed. The witness stated that it was Ebad who told him
that he was gifting 12-1/2 bighas of land to Afsar in token consideration of a
Dhoti given by the latter. The witness corroborated the scribe, that the deed
had been drawn up according to the instructions given by Ebad.

The first two courts have concurrently found that these witnesses are
respectable, independent and disinterested persons, and their evidence is
entirely creditworthy. They also accepted the evidence of DW 3, DW 4 and DW 5
regarding the giving of Dhoti as consideration for the Hiba by the donee to
the donor.

PW 4 was another deed-writer, who had scribed the cancellation deed (Ex. 1),
admittedly executed by the plaintiff on 3-2-1959 to revoke the will. The
plaintiff's case was that on 3-2-1959, it was Afsar who took him to Pakur and
got the cancellation deed executed, and took hold of that deed, and thereafter
by a misrepresentation that the deed had been lost, got on 9-2-1959, the Hiba-
bil-Ewaz executed. The core of this story was gouged out by the plaintiff's
own witness, PW 4, who had scribed the cancellation deed. PW 4 did not swear
to the presence of Afsar defendant on 3-2-59 at Pukar when the cancellation
deed Ex. 1 was written and executed. In view of this, the first appellate
court, was right in holding, in concurrence with the trial court, that Afsar
never accompanied Ebad to Pukar on 3-2-1959, and he not having come into
possession of the cancellation deed, no occasion for him arose to induce by
misrepresentation or undue influence the execution of the Hiba-bil-Ewaz in
question.

The first appellate Court further came to the conclusion that this gift was
acted upon by the parties, the donee entered into possession of the gifted
land, that the plaintiff's natural son Moktul who since long before the gift,
had been living separately from him, started residing 338 with the plaintiff,
and, according to the plaintiff's own admission, Moktul, sometime prior to the
suit (which has been filed about one year after the execution of the Hiba)
convened a Panchayat in the Mosque, to consider why the land should be given
to defendant 1, and since then the troube arose which led to the institution
of the suit.

In short, the District Judge who was the final court of fact, after a survey
of the entire evidence on record, found that Afsar was not in a position to
dominate the will of Ebad Sheikh and that the execution of the Hiba-bil-Ewaz
was not induced by undue influence.

We have discussed the evidence of the important witnesses in some detail to
show that on the material on record, the finding of the first appellate court
to the effect, that the plainiff had failed to prove that defendant 1 was in a
position to dominate his will, was not wrong or unreasonable. In any case, it
did not suffer from any "illegality, omission, error or defect such as is
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 100". It was a finding of fact and
the High Court in second appeal, had no jurisdiction to interfere with the
same, even if it appeared to be erroneous to the High Court, the error not
being of a kind indicated in section 100(1).

Since the plaintiff had failed to substantiate the first element essential to
the proof of undue influence, the High Court was wrong in holding that the
burden had shifted on the defendant to show that the Hiba-bil-Ewaz was not
induced by undue influence.

For these reasons we allow the appeal, set aside the judgment of the High
Court and dismiss the suit, but, in the circumstances of the case, leave the
parties to bear their own costs throughout.

    
    
    V.P.S.					     Appeal allowed.
    339
    
    
    
    

