

Rajasthan High Court

Devdutta Dheer vs Janki Vallabh And Ors. on 19 September, 1985

Equivalent citations: AIR 1986 Raj 170, 1985 (2) WLN 320

Author: G K Sharma

Bench: G K Sharma

ORDER Gopal Krishna Sharma, J.

1\. This revision petition is preferred against the judgment of Additional
Civil Judge, Jaipur District, Jaipur, dated 10th Jan., 81, by which, he
confirmed the judgment passed by the Munsif, Jaipur District Jaipur, dated
24th May, 80.

2\. Birdhichand and Jankivallabh filed a suit for rent and ejectment against
Parmanand, and others, claiming rent on the basis of Rs. 20/- before the
Munsif. During the pendency of the said suit, the parties entered into a
compromise on 17th Jan., 68, and it was agreed that the defendants would pay
Rs. 30/-per month as rent, w.e.f. 1st Mar., 67, and it was further agreed by
the defendant that they would vacate the premises in dispute by the end of
1970. On the basis of this compromise, the learned Munsif, on 9th Feb., 68,
decreed the suit Thereafter, decree-holder Birdhichand and judgment debtor
Parmanand expired. An execution petition was filed by Jankivallabh and the
legal representatives of Birdhichand, against the petitioner Devdutta Dheer,
who is legal representative of deceased Parmanand. An objection petition was
filed by the petitioner, and it was objected that there was a fresh contract
of tenancy executed between the parties, and it was agreed that the defendants
would pay Rs. 30/- per month as rent and that the defendants agreed to vacate
the suit premises at the end of 1970, and so, the decree was not executable.
It was argued by him that the decree holder should have filed a fresh suit for
ejectment. It was also objected that the petitioner had paid Rs. 30/-per month
as rent even for the year 1970 and the decree holder had accepted that rent.
Thus, according to the petitioner, a fresh relationship of landlord and tenant
had been created, and so, the decree holder was estopped to execute the
decree.

3\. The learned Munsif, after hearing both the sides, rejected the objections
raised by the judgment-debtor petitioner. Then, an appeal was preferred by the
petitioner, which was dismissed by the learned Additional Civil Judge, vide
his judgment dated 15th Jan., 81. Against that judgment, the present revision
petition has been preferred.

4\. Mr. J. S. Rastogi on behalf of the petitioner argued that the learned
lower Court had no jurisdiction to order execution of the decree when there
was no decree for eviction. According to him, there was no direction for
delivery of possession by execution through Court, and the decree was a
declaratory decree. So, the same was not executable. It was also argued by him
that both the parties had entered into a fresh contract of lease. Previously,
the rent was at the rate of Rs. 20/-per month, and later on, by this
agreement, the defendant agreed to pay Rs. 30/- per month as rent. So, the
defendant had agreed to pay an increased rent, and he simply gave an
undertaking that he would vacate the suit premises at the end of 1970. So,
according to Mr. Rastogi, a fresh contract was entered into between the
parties, and on the basis of this fresh contract, a regular suit for
ejectment, should have been filed.

5\. Mr. Rastogi has also argued that after the passing of the decree, the
defendant continued to pay rent to the decree holder, which was accepted by
him. So, the tenancy continued. Even after 1970, Mr. Rastogi argued, the
petitioner continued to pay rent to the decree holder, and hence, on the basis
of this decree, the petitioner cannot be ejected Regarding the receipts of
rent paid after 1970, it was argued that the learned lower Court has misread
and misconstrued the receipts. The said receipts were clearly receipts for
rent, and there is no evidence on the record to show that the same were
received as amount for use and occupation.

6\. In suport of his argument, Mr. Rastogi has relied on a number of case laws
of various High Courts.

7\. In Kanmal v. Hukamchand, AIR 1966 Raj 178, which is a Division Bench
judgment, a decree was passed on the basis of a compromise under Order 23,
Rule 3, C.P.G It was observed therein as under : --

In other words, matters extraneous to the suit are not to be incorporated in
the operative part of a decree. It should be confined to the actual subject-
matter of the then existing litigation. Anything, which is outside the ambit
of the existing litigation will not form part of the decree as such. As
regards execution of a compromise decree, to the extent the terms of any
compromise fall outside the limits of the suit they are not to be incorporated
in the decree and even if they are so incorporated on account of the
compromise as a whole having been made a part of the decree, the decree will
remain executable only to the extent it is within the limits of the suit and
no more. It will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case as to
whether a particular clause in the compromise is within the scope of the
particular suit or was outside the limits thereof and for it the proceedings
will have to be looked as a whole."

The above case is distinguishable from the present case. In that case, the
defendant was to remain in possession for an indefinite period," though he was
to pay rent regularly for each month. So, it was held herein that it would
lead to odd result if eviction could be ordered in execution even in such a
case after an indefinite period. It was further held in that case --

"On consideration of the terms of a compromise decree in an eviction suit by
the landlord that the clause permitting the tenant to pay a certain amount of
rent from a certain date created a fresh tenancy which being outside the suit
for eviction could not be enforced in execution of the decree."

8\. In the present case, the defendant agreed to vacate the premises by the
end of 1970. It means that a specific date was given for eviction of the
defendant So, the case cited above does not help the petitioner in this case.

9\. In Khalli Rath v. Eppili Ramachandra, AIR 1953 Orissa 74, a compromise
decree was passed in a suit for rent and ejectment, and in the compromise, the
defendant had agreed to vacate the premises without notice at the end of the
years. An execution petition was filed. Then, an objection was raised that the
decree was unexecutable on a plain reading of the terms of the compromise. The
lower courts had held that the compromise decree was executable as the suit
itself was for possession. In that case, it was held as under : --

It appears to us that it would be travelling beyond the words used by the
parties in the compromise deed, to import into it anything like a provision
directing execution to be taken in the event of the defendant not vacating the
house after the expiry of the period of one yean The compromise does not say
that the decree holder shall be entitled to enforce the defendant. Nor does it
say that the defendant should deliver back possession at the end of the
stipulated period. All that the stipulation amounts to is that the defendant
agreed to vacate after a certain date, what would happen in the event of a
violation of this provision, was not stipulated or agreed to between the
parties. In such circumstances, it is difficult to hold that the parties
intended that the plaintiff should recover possession by way of execution as
the suit itself was one for possession. We are, therefore, unable to accept
the view taken by the courts below that the decree was executable as the suit
itself was for possession and would set aside the order under appeal"

In the above case of Khalli Rath (supra), the Judges of the Orissa High Court
while interpreting the compromise were of the opinion that looking to the
circumstances it was difficult to hold that the plaintiff should recover
possession by way of execution as the suit itself was one for possession. But,
in the present case, the intention is very clear from the compromise filed by
the parties. The suit for rent and ejectment was pending and the rent was Rs.
20/- per month, but, by the compromise, the defendant agreed to pay a rent of
Rs. 30/- per month from 1st Mar. 67 and he also agreed to vacate the disputed
property at the end of 1970. The intention was very clear here. Rent up to
28th Feb. 67, was paid at the rate of Rs. 20/- per month. Thereafter, no
payment of rent was made. So, on 9th Feb. 68, when the compromise was filed,
the defendant agreed and sought time to vacate the suit premises by the end of
1970 and from 1st Mar. 67 he agreed to pay rent at the rate of Rs. 30/- per
month. The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that the
defendant agreed to pay rent at enhanced rate of Rs. 30/- per month, but this
was not the position, because, rent was paid only up to 28th Feb. 67 and the
defendant took time to vacate the suit premises by the end of 1970. Rs. 30/-
per month were fixed for use and occupation of the property and not rent. Thus
the intention of the parties in this case from the compromise deed was very
clear. The defendant wanted time to vacate the property and for which prayed
for up to the end of 1970 and the plaintiff agreed to it. So, the intention
was very clear that the defendant would vacate the property and directly, he
agreed to ejectment. Instead of enforcing the decree for ejectment
immediately, the defendant prayed for some time, and this would mean that the
plaintiff gave him time to vacate the premises by the end of 1970. In the
decree also, the words are similar that the tenant would vacate the suit
premises by the end of 1970. So, the intention was that the decree for
ejectment was passed and time was granted to the defendant to vacate the suit
premises by the end of 1970, It is incorrect to say that a fresh contract for
rent was arrived at by the compromise. Also it is incorrect to say that the
defendant continued to be as tenant, because, the plaintiff had accepted Rs.
30/-per month even after 1970.

10\. In Dhan Mia v. Jamila Khatun, AIR 1952 Assam 21, it was observed as under
: --

That the suit was compromised in so far as it related to the arrears of rent
and the manner in which they were to be paid. It was not the intention of the
parties that the J.D. would be liable to eviction in execution of the
compromise decree. The fresh agreement of tenancy evidenced by the terms of
the compromise was extraneous to the decree and the D.H. must be relegated to
a suit."

11\. In B.K. Thaper v. Sudhir Kumar, AIR 1966 J & K 13, it was held as under :
--

that the terms of the above decree were plain and unambiguous and, therefore,
in order to finding out the real intention of the parties, it was not
necessary to look into the conduct of the parties. The decree clearly created
a fresh lease for a period of four years continuing the terms and conditions
of the original lease. Moreover, read as a whole, the decree was purely
declaratory in nature and contained no directions that if the tenants did not
give up possession on the stipulated date of 1-1-1963, possession should be
got through court by executing the decree. There was another important aspect
of the matter which also showed that the decree was never intended to be
executable. The clause in the previous lease by which the lessee was given the
option to renew the lease with the consent of the landlords had also been
incorporated in the lease created by the decree by virtue of Clause (1). It
was obvious, therefore, that even on 1-1-1963, it was open to the lessee to
have claimed renewal of the lease with the consent of the landlord. If the
landlords had given their assent to the renewal of the lease, then no question
of giving up possession would have arisen. It was clear from the terms of the
decree that the parties at the time when they entered into compromise actually
contemplated such a contingency. This circumstance was, therefore, wholly
inconsistent with the decree being one of an executable nature. The nature of
the decree would not be altered merely because the parties treated a
declaratory decree as a decree for possession. The judgment debtors were not
liable to ejectment without giving notice as required by Section 111 of T. P.
Act and the execution of the decree was barred by the provisions of the T. P.
Act. The decree created a fresh lease and the judgment debtors could not be
ejected without bringing a suit for ejectment under the provisions of T. P.
Act."

Against the decision of the J & K High Court in B. K. Thapar's case, the
parties went to Supreme Court. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Sudhir
Kumar v. Baldev Krishna Thapar, (1969) 3 SCC 611, observed as follows: --

On analysis of the terms of the compromise it is seen that the lessors had
granted a fresh lease of the cinema talkies demised; a monthly rent was fixed
in respect of the same and the lessees were given an option to renew the lease
at the end of the terms fixed though that right is subject to certain
conditions. Under these circumstances, the direction in the decree to vacate
the suit premises at the end of the term fixed in the compromise would amount
to an ineffective direction. Such a direction cannot be considered as an
ejectment decree. It is at best a declaration of the right of the lessors to
eject the lessees at the end of the lease period if the lessees fail to get a
renewal"

The above case is clearly distinguishable from the present case. According to
the terms of the compromise in that case, a fresh lease was granted, monthly
rent was fixed, and the lessees were given an option to renew the lease at the
end of the term fixed, though that right was subject to certain conditions.
So, the direction in the decree to vacate the suit premises at the end of the
term fixed in the compromise would have amounted to an ineffective direction.
So, in that case, it was held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court that
that was a declaration of the right of the lessors to eject the lessees at the
end of the lease period if the lessees failed to get a renewal. In the present
case, the circumstances are quite different The intention of the parties were
very clear which shows that the defendant agreed for a decree of ejectment.

12\. In Babulal Gulabchand v. Nathulal Badrilal, AIR 1976 Madh Pra 222, a suit
for rent and ejectment was filed, and in that suit, a compromise was produced,
in terms of the compromise, a decree was passed in favour of the plaintiff.
When the execution proceedings started, an objection was raised in the
executing Court that the decree was not executable as it was only a
declaratory decree. By the compromise, a fresh tenancy was created, and the
remedy was to file a fresh suit. The facts of that case and the terms of the
compromise were different than that of the present case. In that case, it was
agreed that the defendant would pay instalments of arrears of rent and he
would also pay the rent, and in case of default of payment of rent, the
plaintiff would be entitled to get the possession, and also would be entitled
to get the rent. In that case, it was held in terms of the compromise that the
compromise created a fresh tenancy and the appellant could not be ousted from
the possession in the face of the terms of the decree. The remedy available to
the decree holder was filing a fresh suit So, the above case is also
distinguishable from the present case, where the terms of the compromise were
very clear and the intention of the parties were also clear as mentioned
above.

13\. In Bhavan Vaja v. Solanki Hanuji Khaoji Mansang, AIR 1972 SC 1371, it has
been observed as under : --

It is true that an executing court cannot go behind the decree under
execution. But that does not mean that it has no duty to find out the true
effect of decree. For construing a decree it can and in appropriate cases it
ought to take into consideration the pleadings as well as the proceedings
leading up to the decree. In order to find out the meaning of the words
employed in a decree, the Court often has to ascertain the circumstance under
which these words came to be used. That is the plain duty of the executing
Court and if that court fails to discharge that duty, it would be deemed to
have failed to exercise the jurisdiction vested in it."

14\. In view of the observations made above by the Supreme Court, the
pleadings of the parties as well as the compromise filed by the parties, are
to be looked into. The court can certainly ascertain the circumstances under
which the compromise was filed. The suit was pending for ejectment, and during
the pendency of the suit, the compromise was filed and on the basis of the
compromise, the decree was passed. So, the intention of the parties was very
clear. The defendant agreed to get a decree passed against him, and he simply
wanted time to vacate the suit premises by the end of 1970. So, the executing
court could certainly interprete the compromise which was on the record and
could also look into the intention of the parties. In the present case, as
already mentioned above, there are no specific words in the decree about
ejectment, or that after 1970, the decree holder would file execution petition
for taking possession. But, the intention of the parties was very clear and
the intention was that the defendant agreed to a decree passed against him for
ejectment, and he wanted time to vacate the premises by the end of 1970.

15\. Thus, the case laws cited above, by the learned counsel for the
petitioner are of no help to him. As I have already mentioned above, the
intention was very clear. The defendant agreed to get passed a decree for
ejectment against him, and the court granted him time to vacate the suit
premises, till the end of 1970. After this period, the decree holder would
certainly be entitled to execute the decree. It is incorrect to say that this
decree was a fresh contract or a declaratory decree. No fresh lease was
arrived at between the parties. So, the decree was executable.

16\. The learned counsel then argued that even accepting of the rent after
1970, would not mean that there was a fresh tenancy. After 1970 the defendant
made payments, but, it was for the use and occupation of the said property.
This act of withholding the property after the expiry of 1970 would not create
a tenancy of any kind.

17\. In Bhawanji Lakhamshi v. Himatlal Jamnadas Dani, AIR 1972 SC819, it has
been observed : --

Mere acceptance of amounts equivalent to rent by a landlord from a tenant in
possession after a lease had been determined, either by efflux of time or by
notice to quit, and who enjoys statutory immunity from eviction except on well
defined grounds as in the Act (Bombay Rents, Hotel, and Lodging House Rates
(Control) Act, 1947) cannot be regarded as evidence of a new agreement of
tenancy. If the tenant asserts that the landlord accepted the rent not as
statutory tenant but only as legal rent indicating his assent to the tenant's
continuing in possession, it is for the tenant to establish it. Where he fails
to so establish it cannot be said that there was holding over by him".

18\. In Bai Chanchal v. Syed Jalaluddin, AIR 1971 SC 1081 their Lordships of
the Supreme Court have held as under : --

"We are unable to find any such terms. On the face of it, all that the consent
decree envisaged was that, though the judgment debtors were liable to
immediate eviction, the decree holders agreed to let them continue in
possession for a period of five years. Since this concession was being granted
as a special case, the decree holders insisted that mesne profits should be
paid at a much higher rate so much so that between all the defendants,
governed by the two decrees of 8th July, 1946 and 28th Jan., 1949, the amount
payable as mesne profits became Rs. 7,314.80 per annum which had no relation
with the original rent of Rs. 199/- per annum for the entire land fixed by the
lease of 1895. In fact, the decree holders sought further protection by
requiring the judgment debtors to pay the mesne profits in monthly
instalments, and the instalments were so fixed that mesne profits due for five
years were to be paid within period of three years. There was the further
clause that, in case of default of payment of the mesne profits, the
defaulting judgment debtors could be immediately called upon to deliver
possession, these terms can, in no way, be interpreted as creating a new
tenancy constituting the decree holders as landlords and the judgment debtors
as their tenants. The terms of the consent decree neither constituted a
tenancy nor a licence. All that the decree holders did was to allow the
judgment debtors to continue in possession for five years on payment of mesne
profits as a concession for entering into a compromise. The argument must,
therefore, be rejected."

19\. After considering the entire arguments advanced by both the learned
counsel, and the laws cited above by both the sides, I am of the opinion that
the arguments of the learned counsel for the petitioner have no substance. The
decree was passed in terms of the compromise, and the comrpomise is also to be
seen while executing the decree. The intention of the parties is also to be
looked into. After interpreting the compromise, I am of the opinion that the
intention of the parties was that the decree for ejectment be passed. The
defendant prayed for time to vacate the suit premises up to the end of 1970,
to which the plaintiff agreed. So, it cannot be said that the decree for
ejectment had not been passed. The decree is a clear decree for ejectment, and
time was granted up to the end of 1970. So, the decree is not a declaratory
decree, and is executable. There is thus no ground to interfere in the
judgment of the lower court

20\. In the result, the revision petition having no force is dismissed.

