

Allahabad High Court

Mohammad Yasin And Another vs Mohammad Yasin And Others on 23 August, 1991

Equivalent citations: AIR 1992 All 55

Bench: M Singh

ORDER

1\. Petitioners were the plaintiffs in a suit for specific performance of an
agreement for sale.

2\. Mohd. Bashir and Abdul Ghafoor were the predecessor in interest of
respondents Nos. 1 to 13. They were the owners of the open piece of land in
dispute. They executed an agreement to sell on 23-1-73 in favour of the
petitioners. On the same day by means of another deed they permitted the
petitioners to construct the boundary wall around the said land. It was done
by the plaintiff. Subsequently Mohd. Bashir and Abdul Ghafoor expressed their
unwillingness to execute the sale deed. This led the petitioners to file the
suit in the year 1977 for specific performance of the contract for sale.

3\. The defendants filed their written statements. The execution and
genuineness of the agreement to sell was challenged. The properties sought to
be transferred were in two different parts belonging to two different persons,
so the sale deed could not be executed. The defendants have raised certain
construction over the land. The land ceased to be an open piece of land. No
consideration had passed.

4\. Under the orders of the trial Court, the Amin submitted his report showing
two tin-sheds which appeared to be new.

5\. The suit was decreed on 29-11-1980. The defendants' first appeal was
dismissed on 8-9-1986 by the 1st Addl. District Judge. The High Court
dismissed the second appeal on 10-12-1987. The decree became final.

6\. In the meantime the petitioners had filed an execution case No. 3 of 1986.
The respondents filed their objection under Section 47, C.P.C. They raised two
objections (1) the properties sought to be transferred are two different
properties belonging to two different persons and the decree for execution of
contract for sale cannot be executed (2) there was no open land on the date of
the agreement. There were already constructions on the same. The delivery of
the possession of the open piece of land could not be given to the decree
holder on account of the existing constructions.

7\. These two objections were not pressed before the trial Court. Issues were
not framed (c)n these points. Even before the first appellate Court no such
point was argued. When the respondents filed their objection under Section 47,
C.P.C. the second appeal was pending in the High Court. These points were not
argued even in the second appeal.

8\. A copy of the judgment of the High Court dismissing the respondents'
second appeal has been filed as Annexure-10 to the writ petition in which it
has been stated that--

"From a perusal of the tenor of the judgment of the lower appellate Court, it
is clear that only two submissions had been advanced before it. The first was
that the defendants are ready to pay back the advance amount along with 24%
per annum interest....... The second submission raised by the learned counsel
for the appellant was that the plaintiffs were the owners of two plots Nos.
32/116F and 32/116 E and they could not enter into joint transaction of
agreement to sell dated 23-1-73. "Both these points raised before the
appellate Court as well as in the High Court have been decided against the
defendants. The decree has attained finality. The executing Court cannot go
behind the decree.

9\. The only point raised before the executing Court was that the decree
passed by the Court below was defective one as the land in dispute was in two
parts belonging to two different persons and the sale deed could not be
executed. This objection was rejected on 19-12-87 against which the
respondents filed a revision before the learned Addl. Distt. Judge, Varanasi.

10\. The respondents raised new points before the revisional Court. The
revision was allowed and the order of the executing Court was set aside. The
case was remanded to the executing Court. The learned executing Court was
directed to decide the following questions :

(1) Who has raised the construction in dispute.

(2) Whether the construction was made before the filing of the suit or after
it? and (3) Whether the construction standing on the land will be deemed to be
transferred in favour of the decree-holder or they would be removed by the
judgment-debtor at his own cost or the same is to be removed through Court?

11\. Heard Sri Aditya Narain Singh, learned counsel for the petitioners and
Sri Sidheshwari Prasad, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
respondents.

12\. Sri Sidheshwari Prasad appearing on behalf of the respondents stated that
the sale deed of the open piece of land could not be executed unless the
construction standing over it was demolished. According to him either the
construction were to be demolished or the defendant could be paid money by way
of compensation. Unless it was done the decree could not be executed.

13\. He has referred to a decision reported in AIR 1956 SC 359, Jai Narain Ram
Lundia v. Kedar Nath Khetan. In that case the controversy raised was that the
defendants were not in a position to implement the conditions imposed on them
by the decree because the Marwari Brothers' firm was dissolved by the
agreement between the parties before the Federal Court's decree and it was no
longer in existence. The executing Court refused to go into this question, but
the Supreme Court took the view that the Court had jurisdiction to investigate
whether the Marwari Brothers' firm had been dissolved and on account of the
dissolution the decree has become inexecutable. In para 23 of the said
judgment it has been made clear that the executing Court has to see that the
defendants give to the plaintiff the very thing that the decree directs and
not something else. If there is a dispute about its identity or substance, the
executing court can determine the same. The facts of the instant case are
entirely different.

No such situation has arisen in this case.

14\. Here neither there is any dispute with regard to identity or substance of
the properties regarding which the sale-deed is to be executed. The only
objection raised by the learned counsel for the respondents is that the decree
was for open piece of land and since the constructions have been raised it
ceased to be land. Therefore, the decree became inexecutable. The defendant
had full opportunity to get a decision on tbis point from the Court passing
the decree. Neither any issue was framed on this point nor any finding was
invited by the defendants from the Courts below, the case of Jai Narain, (AIR
1956 SC 359) (supra) is wholly irrelevant to the controversy in hand.

15\. Another case referred to by him is reported in AIR 1970 All 648, Mohd.
Ismail v. Ashiq Husain. In that case it was held that in execution of decree
for demolition, the executing Court can order for removal or demolition of the
construction made during the pendency of the suit. The case reported in AIR
1934 Lahore 978, Narain Singh v. Imamdin was relied upon. The Court further
clarified the position that where the constructions were made before the
institution of the suit, the rule laid down in AIR 1927 Rangoon page 82, Kauk
Sike v. Ong Hock Sein was to be followed. In that case the judgment-debtor was
allowed time to vacate the land and if he so desired, he could carry away the
material of the building.

16\. In that case the Court further clarified that where it appears to the
executing Court that the cost of removal or demolition would exceed the cost
of the material after demolition of the construction, it could be left open to
the decree-holder to decide what he shall do with the construction after he
was given the possession. He can permit the judgment-debtor to remove the
construction standing on it.

17\. In case of Mohd. Ismail, (AIR 1970 All 648) (supra) is of no assistance
to the respondents. Learned counsel for the decree-holder relying upon the
same judgment has made an offer to the judgment-debtor to remove the
construction in case if he so desires sufficient time has been granted to the
learned counsel for the judgment-debtor to seek instructions but he is not in
position to make a clear statement in the Court today. He only insists that
Rs. 50,000/- may be awarded to the judgment-debtor as compensation for which
the decree-holder is not prepared. Under these circumstances I cannot direct
the decree-holder to pay this amount. The offer, thus made by the decree-
holder does not survive any further.

18\. Learned counsel for the respondents further contended that he had raised
the point in the written statement that the construction was already in
existence on the date of the agreement. There was no replication by the
plaintiff. The parties were not at variance on this point. So no issue was
struck by the trial Court. He has raised this point in the grounds of appeal
filed before the first appellate Court but the same has not been considered.
Mere taking a ground in the memorandum of appeal is nothing. There should have
been material on record to show that this point was pressed before the first
appellate Court but it was not decided. Had it been a fact then the judgment-
debtor would have raised this point in second-appeal also and would have
argued that. I have already referred to the finding of the High Court which
shows that this point even was not brought to the notice of the Court which
dismissed the defendant's second-appeal. This is entirely a new point and
cannot be permitted to be raised in the execution proceeding.

19\. Learned counsel then referred to a decision reported in AIR 1952 All 602,
Smt. Shakuntala Devi v. Harish Chandra. Special reference was made to paras 9
and 10 of the judgment. In that case it was held that when a Court finds that
a contract has been entered into and there has been breach of the same it was
not desirable to order for specific performance of the contract when it would
be just and proper to award compensation to the aggrieved party even without
specific prayer. This argument is based only on the equitable consideration.
Looking to the facts of the present case I am not inclined to pass any such
order in favour of the judgment-debtor.

20\. Relying upon a decision reported in AIR 1957 SC 388, Beant Singh v. Union
of India, it has been contended by the learned counsel for the respondents
that this Court is not sitting as a Court of appeal and cannot substitute its
own judgment. It can only look into the jurisdictional error and error
apparent on the face of record. This settled principle of law is not disputed.
The order of the revisional Court suffers from error apparent on the face of
record in as much as it has issued direction to the executing Court to decide
the points which were beyond the decree itself. Accordingly the order of the
revisional Court became vitiated.

21\. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties and perusing the record
I am of the view that the revisional Court has erred in the exercise of its
jurisdiction in passing the order of remand. The directions contained in the
order amounts to permitting the executing Court to go behind the decree which
is not permissible. The directions, thus issued are wholly irrelevant and
beyond the power of the revisional Court.

22\. Learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to a decision reported in
(1979) 1 Mad LJ 380, Duraisami Mudaliar v. Rama-sami Chettiar, according to
which, where Court directs a decree for possession of a vacant piece of land,
it can direct its officers to remove the superstructure on it and deliver the
vacant possession to the decree-holder. The power to remove the super-
structure on the land was incidental power, necessary and ancillary to the
power to deliver possession of the property. If, however, there be any
construction within the meaning of Order 21, Rule 97 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, that has got to be specifically dealt with under the said
provision.

23\. If the defendants have raised any construction during the pendency of the
suit or after the decree, the executing Court without any difficulty could
order removal or the demolition of the constructions so made, but if the
superstructure was put up before the institution of the suit and was not
ordered to be removed as part of the decree, proper course in such a case
would be to direct the judgment-debtor to remove the super structure so put by
him so as to effectuate the vacant delivery of the suit site to the decree-
holder. This case has followed the earlier case of Mohd. Ismail (AIR 1970 All
648) (supra) decided by this Court. Relying on the same, an offer was given to
the judgment-debtor, but he was not prepared to remove the constructions.

24\. For the reasons given in the preceding pargraphs, I am of the view that
the order of remand passed by the revisional court was wholly uncalled for and
is not in accordance with law. It suffers from error apparent on the face of
record. The revisional court had to confine itself only to the question
whether the executing court has passed an order in consonance with the decree.

25\. In the result the writ petition succeeds and is allowed. The order dated
24th May, 1989 passed by the Addl. District Judge is set aside. He is directed
to dispose of the revision within three months from the date of the filing of
the certified copy of this order before him in accordance with law.

26\. Petition allowed.

