

Supreme Court of India

State Of West Bengal vs Haresh C. Banerjee & Ors on 30 August, 2006

Author: S . Y.K.

Bench: Y.K. Sabharwal, C.K. Thakker, P.K. Balasubramanyan

    
    
               CASE NO.:
    Appeal (civil)  2579 of 1998
    
    PETITIONER:
    State of West Bengal
    
    RESPONDENT:
    Haresh C. Banerjee & Ors.
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT: 30/08/2006
    
    BENCH:
    Y.K. Sabharwal, C.K. Thakker & P.K. Balasubramanyan
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

J U D G M E N T Y.K. Sabharwal, CJI.

The validity of Rule 10(1) of the West Bengal Services (Death-cum-Retirement
Benefit) Rules, 1971 [for short 'the Rules'] is in question in this appeal.
The Rules have been framed in exercise of power under proviso to Article 309
of the Constitution of India. Rule 10(1) provides for withholding of pension
and reads as under : "10. Right of the Governor to withhold pension in certain
cases. (1) The Governor reserves to himself the right of withholding of
withdrawing a pension or any part of it whether permanently or for a specified
period, and the right of ordering the recovery from a pension of the whole or
part of any pecuniary loss caused to Government, if the pensioner is found in
a departmental or judicial proceeding to have been guilty of grave misconduct
or negligence, during the period of his service, including service rendered on
re-employment after retirement :

Provided that 

(a) such departmental proceeding if instituted while the officer was in
service, whether before his retirement or during his re-

employment, shall after the final retirement of the officer, be deemed to be a
proceeding under this article and shall be continued and concluded by the
authority by which it was commenced in the same manner as if the officer had
continued in service;

(b) such departmental proceedings, if not instituted while the officer was in
service, whether before his retirement or during his re-

employment

(i) shall not be instituted save with the sanction of the Governor;

(ii) shall not be in respect of any event which took place more than four
years before such institution; and

(iii) shall be conducted by such authority and in such place as the Governor
may direct and in accordance with the procedure applicable to departmental
proceedings in which an order of dismissal from service could be made in
relation to the officer during his service;

(c) no such judicial proceeding, if not instituted while the officer was in
service, whether before his retirement or during his re-

employment shall be instituted in respect of a cause of action which arose on
an event which took place more than four years before such institution; and

(d) the Public Service Commission, West Bengal, shall be consulted before
final orders are passed.

Explanation.For the purpose of this article

(a) a departmental proceeding shall be deemed to have been instituted on the
date on which the statement of charges is issued to the officer or pensioner,
or if the officer has been placed under suspension from an earlier date, on
such date; and

(b) a judicial proceeding shall be deemed to have been instituted

(i) in the case of criminal proceeding, on the date on which the complaint or
report of police officer, on which the Magistrate takes cognizance, is made,
and

(ii) in the case of a civil proceeding, on the date on which the plaint is
presented or, as the case may be, an application is made to a Civil Court."

While granting leave to examine the vires of Rule 10(1), it was directed that
even if the appeal succeeds, the benefit available to respondent No. 1 as per
the judgment of the High Court will not be recalled.

The High Court by the impugned judgment has held Rule 10(1) to be ultra vires
the provisions of Articles 19(1)(f) and 31(1) of the Constitution. It was held
that the pension was a property and its payment does not depend upon the
discretion of the Government.

Pension is not a bounty payable on the sweet-will and the pleasure of the
Government and to receive pension is a valuable right of a Government servant
is a well-settled legal proposition. The question in the present case,
however, is not about the deprivation of the said right by the Government by
an executive order but is about the constitutional validity of Rule 10(1)
providing for withholding of pension or part thereof in certain cases.
Articles 19(1)(f) and 31(1) have been repealed by the Constitution (Forty-
Fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 w.e.f. 20th June, 1979. The right to property is
no longer a fundamental right. It is now a constitutional right, as provided
in Article 300A of the Constitution. Right to receive pension was a
fundamental right at the time of framing of Rules in 1971. The question is
whether a Rule framed under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution
providing for withholding of the pension would ipso facto be ultra vires,
being violative of Article 19(1)(f) as it stood in 1971 when Rules were
framed.

The High Court has, in the impugned judgment, made reference to a decision of
this Court in Deokinandan Prasad v. The State of Bihar and Ors. [(1971) 2 SCC
330] for coming to the conclusion that the rule in question is ultra vires. In
the said case, this Court held that the right to receive pension was wrongly
withheld by an executive order. The Judgment in Deokinandan Prasad's case in
fact lends support to the vires of the rule since it was held in that case
that an employee can be deprived of the pension by an authority of law. That
authority, in the present case, is contained in the rules [Rule 10(1)], that
were framed providing for withholding of the pension. Various State Rules or
Regulations vest power for withholding or reduction of pension on compliance
of principles of natural justice. The question of an order withholding or
reducing pension being invalid and bad in law on a legally permissible ground
is one thing but to hold the rule ultra vires is another. In State of Uttar
Pradesh v. Brahm Datt Sharma and Anr. [(1987) 2 SCC 179], this Court observed
that if the Government incurs pecuniary loss on account of misconduct or
negligence of a Government servant and if he retires from service before any
departmental proceedings are taken against him, it is open to the State
Government to initiate departmental proceedings, and if in those proceedings,
he is found guilty of misconduct, negligence or any other such act or omission
as a result of which Government is put to pecuniary loss, the State Government
is entitled to withhold, reduce or recover the loss suffered by it by
forfeiture or reduction of pension. In State of Punjab v. K.R. Erry [(1973) 1
SCC 120], it was held that the State Government could not direct cut in
pension of officers without giving a reasonable opportunity of hearing. In
State of Maharashtra v. M.H. Mazumdar [(1988) 2 SCC 52], it was observed that
the State Government's power to reduce or withhold pension by taking
proceedings against a Government servant, even after his retirement is
expressly preserved by the rules. Rule 10(1) is the authority of law under
which the pension could be withheld on compliance of stipulations of the rule.
We are unable to appreciate how such a rule could be held ultra vires even at
a point of time when pension was a property to which Article 19(1)(f) was
applicable. In view of the above, we set aside the impugned judgment to the
extent it declares Rule 10(1) ultra vires. The appeal is allowed accordingly.

