

Supreme Court of India

Superintendent, Govt. T.B. ... vs J. Srinivasan on 8 April, 1996

Equivalent citations: (1999) IIILLJ 352 SC, (1998) 8 SCC 572

Bench: B J Reddy, K Paripoornan

ORDER

1\. Leave granted.

2\. Heard learned counsel for the parties.

3\. This appeal is preferred against the judgment of a learned Single Member
of the Tamil Nadu Administrative Tribunal allowing the original application
filed by the respondent.

4\. The respondent was a Male Nursing Assistant in the TB Hospital. The charge
against him is that he tried to misbehave with the wife of an in-patient
during the night. Even earlier he had tried to tease her. The proceedings were
initiated on the basis of a complaint filed by the said lady. Actually, the
lady and her husband left the hospital and went to their place in the State of
Andhra Pradesh where the husband is said to have died later of TB.

5\. On the basis of the preliminary enquiry report, a regular enquiry was
ordered. The Enquiry Officer examined a co-worker and certain other persons
who were present in the ward at the relevant time. In spite of efforts being
made, the presence of the lady (with whom the respondent is said to have
misbehaved) could not be secured. Even so on the basis of the evidence
available, the Enquiry Officer reported that the respondent is guilty. (The
enquiry was actually conducted by a team of two doctors, Dr Rangarajan and Dr
Mancy Alexander.) On the basis of the enquiry report, the disciplinary
authority ordered the removal of the respondent.

6\. The Tribunal has allowed the original application on two grounds, viz.,
(i) that a copy of the preliminary enquiry report was not furnished to the
respondent and (ii) that the complainant or her husband were not examined at
the enquiry and, therefore, the respondent had no opportunity to cross-examine
them.

7\. After hearing the counsel for both the parties, we are satisfied that the
order of the Tribunal cannot stand. Taking the second ground first, we find
that even though the complainant or her husband were not examined at the
regular enquiry, there is other evidence including the evidence of the co-
worker and another co-patient upon which the finding recorded against the
respondent can be sustained. The Tribunal could not have gone into the
adequacy of evidence. It could interfere only if it is a case of "no evidence"
-- and that is not the case here. Coming to the first ground, the respondent
has not shown that there is any rule requiring that the preliminary enquiry
report should be served upon the delinquent officer/employee before commencing
the enquiry. No prejudice is shown to have resulted to the respondent on
account of not supplying the said report. In the circumstances, the findings
of the disciplinary authority could not have been interfered with by the
Tribunal.

8\. The appeal is accordingly allowed and the judgment in order to the
Tribunal is set aside. No costs.

