

Karnataka High Court

Lakshmi Audio Visual Inc. And Anr. vs Assistant Commissioner Of ... on 23
July, 2001

Equivalent citations: 2001 124 STC 426 Kar

Author: R Raveendran

Bench: R Raveendran

ORDER R.V. Raveendran, J.

1\. The petitioners are carrying on the business of hiring audio visual and
multimedia equipments. They claim that they have purchased public address
systems (mikes, speakers cassette./disc players, amplifiers, etc.) video
camera and equipment, LCD projectors, lighting and other equipments and have
also engaged several technicians, for their said business.

2\. The procedure adopted by each petitioner for conducting their business is
stated to be as follows :

(i) A customer contacts the petitioner for providing audio/visual service for
his programme or event. After assessing the need and availability of the
equipment and suitable operator/technician to operate them on the specified
dates, the petitioner accepts the order. The engagement is for short durations
ranging from few hours to few days.

(ii) The stores department of petitioner release the necessary equipment under
a gate pass showing the name of the technician/ operator who will be in-charge
of such equipment, the mode of transport and the time, date and venue of the
programme/event.

(iii) The equipment is transported to the venue of the programme under the
supervision of the petitioner's employee. At site the audio/visual equipments
are handled, arranged, installed and operated by petitioners'
technicians/operators to meet the requirements of the programme/event. At no
time the equipment is given to the possession or control of the customer, nor
operated by the customer.

(iv) After conclusion of the programme/event, the petitioner's
technician/operator dismantles the equipment/system and brings them back to
the petitioner's stores.

(v) The entire risk in regard to the equipment during transit as well as
during the programme remains with the petitioner. Petitioner takes out
insurance for all its equipments to cover transit and the programme periods.

(vi) The billing is done by the petitioner either in advance or after the
programme, as per the agreed rates for all the services, without any
bifurcation.

3\. Petitioners contend they are not "dealers" within the meaning of that
expression in the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957 ("the Act" for short) nor is
their turnover exigible to sales tax under any provision of the Act. But, the
first respondent has served on the petitioners, notices dated November 25,
1999 and June 5, 2000 (annexure A in the respective petitions) under Section
12(3) of the Act proposing to subject the charges collected for hiring their
audio/ visual equipments to tax, under Section 5-C of the Act. It is alleged
in the said notices that as the petitioner's customers had the benefit of the
use of equipment for a specified period, the transaction between the
petitioner and its customer would amount to "sale" and exigible to tax under
Section 5-C, even if the petitioners are responsible for transportation and
technical arrangements.

4\. Feeling aggrieved, petitioners have filed these petitions for quashing the
said notices issued under Section 12(3) of the Act and seeking a direction to
the first respondent not to proceed further in pursuance of such notices
issued to them. They have also sought a declaration that they are not liable
to pay tax under Section 5-C of the Act on hiring transactions relating to
audio-visual and multimedia equipments. The petitioners contend that
possession and control of the equipment always remains with them and what is
offered to the customer is a package service which includes assessing the
requirements of the customer, transportation of the equipment to and fro to
the site, deployment and use of equipment through their own technicians to
give the desired audio or visual results/effects for the benefit of the
customer.

5\. In their statement of objections the respondents have not specifically
denied the description of the transaction or the procedure adopted by the
petitioners in hiring audio visual equipments, but have contended that the
transactions relating to audio visual equipment are transfers of the right to
use such equipment and therefore exigible to tax under Section 5-C. The
question that therefore arises for consideration is whether the business of
hiring audio visual and multimedia equipment carried on by the petitioners
attracts liability to sales tax under Section 5-C.

6\. Section 5-C of the Act providing for levy of tax on transfer of the right
to use goods, reads as follows :

"Levy of tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods.-- Notwithstanding
anything contained in Sub-section (1) or Sub-section (3) of Section 5, but
subject to Sub-sections (5) and (6) of the said section, every dealer shall
pay for each year, a tax under this Act on his taxable turnover in respect of
the transfer of the right to use any goods mentioned in column (2) of the
Seventh Schedule for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) at
the rates specified in the corresponding entries in column (3) of the said
Schedule."

7\. The provisions of the said section discloses that the sine quo non for
exigibility to tax under Section 5-C, is the transfer of the right to use any
goods. The transfer of the right to use the goods, which may be by way of
leasing, letting or hiring, involves the transferor permitting the transferee
(lessee/hirer) to use his goods. To constitute such transfer, there should be
delivery of possession of the goods by the transferor to the transferee, that
is transfer of the effective and general control of the goods with the right
to use the goods, as distinct from a mere custody of the goods, from the
transferor to the transferee. But, such transfer need not be a "legal transfer
of the goods" nor have all trappings of a "lease". The question whether there
is such transfer or not is essentially a question of fact which has to be
determined with reference to the terms of the contract governing the transfer
of the right to use goods. The nomenclature of the agreement may not be
relevant. Even if the agreement used the title "Licence agreement" but the
terms provided for transfer of effective control to the customer, then the
transaction will be a transfer of the right to use the goods and thus a deemed
sale falling under Section 5-C. This position is also evident from the
decisions of the Supreme Court in Aggarwal Brothers v. State of Haryana and
the decision of the division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in
Harbans Lal v. State of Haryana . In 20th Century Finance Corpn. Ltd. v. State
of Maharashtra the Supreme Court while clarifying that the taxable event
regarding transfer of the right to use goods occurs when a contract for such
transfer is executed between the transferor and transferee and the sites of
such deemed sale would be the place where the contract is executed and not the
place of actual delivery of goods, held that though delivery of goods is not
the condition precedent for a contract of transfer of right to use the goods,
the delivery of goods is one of the elements of the transfer of the right to
use.

8\. I may now refer to a few decisions to clarify as to when there is a
transfer of the right to use and when there is not.

8.1 In Aggarwal Brothers' case the Supreme Court held that transfer of
possession of shuttering material by the assessee to its customers for use
during the construction of buildings was "transfer of right to use goods", as
the customer was in effective control of the shuttering material during the
period it remained in his possession.

8.2 In Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer, Company Circle,
Visakhapatnam , the distinction between delivery of possession and mere
custody without possession was brought out by the Andhra Pradesh High Court by
giving of example of hiring a taxi cab simpliciter (that is hiring a taxi to
go from one place to other) and hiring a taxi cab under a rent-a-car scheme
with a chauffeur. The Andhra Pradesh High Court held as follows :

"The essence of transfer is passage of control over the economic benefits of
property which results in terminating rights and other relations in one entity
and creating them in another. While construing the word 'transfer' due regard
must be had to the thing to be transferred. A transfer of the right to use the
goods necessarily involves delivery of possession by the transferor to the
transferee. Delivery of possession of a thing must be distinguished from its
custody. It is not uncommon to find the transferee of goods in possession
while transferor is having custody. When a taxi cab is hired under 'rent-a-
car' scheme, and a cab is provided, usually driver accompanies the cab; there
the driver will have the custody of the car though the hirer will have the
possession and effective control of the cab. This may be contrasted with the
case when a taxi car is hired for going from one place to another. There the
driver will have both the custody as well as the possession ; what is provided
is service on hire. In the former case, there was effective control of the
hirer (transferee) on the cab whereas in the latter case it is lacking. We may
have many examples to indicate this difference."

8.3 In Krushna Chandra Behera v. State of Orissa [1991] 83 STC 325 (Orissa),
the assessee had given its bus on hire to Orissa State Road Transport
Corporation. The assessee provided the driver and was also responsible for
carrying out the repairs to the bus. The assessee was also bound by orders and
directions of the Corporation in regard to journey, operation timings, routes,
haltage, etc. The driver provided by the assessee had to follow the
directions, orders and instructions of the authorised officials of the
Corporation. The Orissa High Court held that as the effective and general
control of the bus had passed on to the customer (Orissa State Road Transport
Corporation) and the customer was in possession, as distinguished from mere
custody, the transaction was a transfer of the right to use the goods and
therefore a deemed sale.

8.4 In Bank of India v. Commercial Tax Officer, Central Section, Calcutta
[1987] 67 STC 199 (Cal) and in State Bank of India v. State of Andhra Pradesh
the Calcutta High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court considered whether
leasing of a bank locker amounted to transfer of the right to use the locker
and thus fell within the extended definition of "sale". The question was
answered in the negative. The courts held that hiring of the locker was not a
mere transfer of the right to use of the locker but rendering various services
in addition thereto ; that the hire charges are paid not only for the right to
use the locker, but for a host of other services associated with the
maintenance of lockers by the banks ; that the hire charges collected by banks
from constituents represent a consolidated charge levied by the banks for a
variety of services and facilities provided, of which the use of the locker
forms a small part ; and any attempt to levy tax on the hire charge would
amount to levying tax on the charges collected for providing strong room,
round the clock security and deployment of staff. The courts also held that
the banks do not give possession of lockers to the customers but only grant a
licence to use the goods without securing possession, in view the following
factors : (i) banks build strong rooms and install steel cabinets with several
safety lockers with double locking system ; (ii) one key is given to the
customer, the other being retained by the bank ; (iii) the locker cannot be
operated until and unless both the keys were used for opening the lockers ;
and (iv) the customer can have access to the vaults wherein the locker is
situated only when the bank permitted him and right of ingress and egress
relating to lockers is always under the control of the banks.

8.5 In Modern Decorators v. Commercial Tax Officer [1990] 77 STC 470 (WBTT),
the business carried on by a decorator was considered. The business consisted
of the following : (i) constructing/erecting pandals, barricades, rostrums,
etc., as per the requirements of the customers with the aid of bamboos, sal
balla, ropes, tarpaulins, decorating cloth and other materials ; and after the
expiry of the period specified by the customers such pandals, barricades,
rostrums, etc., were dismantled by the decorator, with its own men and labour
and taken back to its godown and (ii) Hiring chairs, tables and furniture. The
West Bengal Taxation Tribunal held as follows :

"But, we find that the hiring of pandals erected by decorators at the instance
of customers for a specified period, cannot come within the meaning of 'sale'
so as to be exigible to sales tax. The argument that the letting value of the
different materials with which pandals are erected are 'goods' in our view,
makes no difference because it is not the materials that are transferred for
use by the customers as such. It is the totality of the service rendered by
the decorator, namely, the erection of pandals, etc., that falls for our
consideration. We, however, make it clear that the various other items which
decorators in course of their trade let out to their customers, such as,
tables, chairs, etc., are 'goods' within the meaning of the Act and they may
come within the definition of 'sale' as amended."

9\. Thus if the transaction is one of leasing/hiring/letting simpliciter under
which the possession of the goods, i.e., effective and general control of the
goods is to be given to the customer and the customer has the freedom and
choice of selecting the manner, time and nature of use and enjoyment, though
within the frame work of the agreement, then it would be a transfer of the
right to use the goods and fall under the extended definition of "sale". On
the other hand, if the customer entrusts to the assessee the work of achieving
a certain desired result and that involves the use of goods belonging to the
assessee and rendering of several other services and the goods used by the
assessee to achieve the desired result continue to be in the effective and
general control of the assessee, then, the transaction will not be a transfer
of the right to use goods falling within the extended definition of "sale".
Let me now clarify the position further, with an illustration which is a
variation of the illustration used by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the
case of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer .

Illustration :

(i) A customer engages a carrier (transport operator) to transport one
consignment (a full lorry load) from place A to B, for an agreed consideration
which is called freight charges or lorry hire. The carrier sends its lorry to
the customer's depot, picks up the consignment and proceeds to the destination
for delivery of the consignment. The lorry is used exclusively for the
customer's consignment from the time of loading, to the time of unloading at
destination. Can it be said that right to use of the lorry has been
transferred by the carrier to the customer ? The answer is obviously in the
negative, as there is no transfer of the "use of the lorry" for the following
reasons : (i) The lorry is never in the control, let alone effective control
of the customer ; (ii) the carrier decides how, when and where the lorry moves
to the destination, and continues to be in effective control of the lorry ;
(hi) the carrier can at any point (of time or place) transfer the consignment
in the lorry to another lorry ; or the carrier may unload the consignment en-
route in any of his godowns, to be picked up later by some other lorry
assigned by the carrier for further transportation and delivery at
destination.

(ii) On the other hand, let us consider the case of a customer (say a factory)
entering into a contract with the transport operator, under which the
transport operator has to provide a lorry to the customer, between the hours
8.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. at the customer's factory for its use, at a fixed hire
per day or hire per km subject to an assured minimum, for a period of one
month or one week or even one day ; and under the contract, the transport
operator is responsible for making repairs apart from providing a driver to
drive the lorry and filling the vehicle with diesel for running the lorry. The
transaction involves an identified vehicle belonging to the transport operator
being delivered to the customer and the customer is given the exclusive and
effective control of the vehicle to be used in any manner as it deems fit ;
and during the period when the lorry is with the customer, the transport
operator has no control over it. The transport operator renders no other
service to the customer. Therefore, the transaction involves transfer of right
to use the lorry and thus be a deemed sale.

10\. I will now examine the nature of a business of hiring of audio, visual
and multimedia equipment, in the light of the aforesaid principles. The
position will be as follows :

(i) If the petitioner hires the audio/visual multimedia equipment to the
customer without rendering any other service, i.e., it merely delivers the
equipment to the customer on hire and leaves it to the customer to transport
the equipment, installs and operate them in any manner he wants and at the end
of the period of hiring, return them to the petitioner, then the possession
and the effective control is transferred to the customer. The transaction will
therefore be a deemed sale, exigible to tax under Section 5C.

(ii) On the other hand, if the customer engages the petitioner for providing
audio visual services for any programme or event and the petitioner does not
deliver any equipment to the customer, but takes the equipment to the site of
the programme, installs them, operates them and then dismantles them and
brings them back after the period of hiring, in such an event the possession
and effective control never leaves the petitioner and the customer never gets
the right to the use of equipment. In such an event there is no deemed sale
attracting tax under Section 5C.

The undisputed facts in this case disclose that the transaction of the
petitioners falls under the second category and therefore, the transactions
are not transfer of use of goods amounting to deemed sales exigible to tax
under Section 5-C of the Act.

11\. The petitions are, therefore, allowed and the impugned notices dated
November 25, 1999 and June 5, 2000 (annexure A) in both the writ petitions are
quashed. It is made clear that if the petitioner carries on any transaction of
the nature falling under para 10(i) above, the assessing authority will be at
liberty to lake action to bring such transactions to tax under Section 5-C, in
accordance with law.

