

Madras High Court

State Of Tamil Nadu vs Pyarelal Malhotra on 26 August, 1982

Equivalent citations: 1984 57 STC 215 Mad

Author: Ramanujam

Bench: G Ramanujam, Ratnam

JUDGMENT Ramanujam, J.

1\. The only question that arises in this tax case which has been filed by the
State against the order of the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras, is
whether the Tribunal is justified in law in rejecting the petition for
enhancement filed by the State in limine on the ground that the said
enhancement petition will not lie.

2\. The assessee in this case had purchased scrap locally, converted the same
into M.S. Rods and then sold the same locally. The local sales of M.S. rods
were not taxed by the assessing authority following the decision of this Court
in Pyarelal Malhotra v. Joint Commercial Tax Officer [1970] 26 STC 416 which
held that the local sales mad out of locally purchased scrap cannot be taxed
as iron and steel are taxable only at one stage. Against the original order of
assessment, there was an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in
relation to other matters. That appeal having failed, the assessee filed
appeals before the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal. While the appeal were pending
before the Tribunal, the decision of this Court in Pyarelal Malhotra v. Joint
Commercial Tax Officer [1970] 26 STC 416 had been reversed by the Supreme
Court in State of Tamil Nadu v. Pyarelal Malhotra , wherein the Supreme Court
had held that though iron and steel are taxable only at single point, scrap
iron being commercially a different product from the finished product, i.e.,
M.S. rods, the State can levy tax on both scrap as well as rods. Taking note
of the decision of the Supreme Court in the above case, the State filed an
enhancement petition before the Tribunal, stating that the first sales of M.S.
rods in this State should also be taxed. The Tribunal, however, rejected the
enhancement petition in limine on the ground that the turnover on the first
sales in M.S. rods was not the subject-matter of assessment by the assessing
authority nor was it the subject-matter before the appellate authority and
that since the appeal before the Tribunal was from the order of the Appellate
Assistant Commissioner, it is not open to the Tribunal to entertain the
enhancement petition and deal with the assessability or otherwise of the
transaction of sales of M.S. rods. The order of the Tribunal in so far as it
rejects the enhancement petition filed by the State has been challenged in
this tax case.

3\. According to the learned Government Pleader the question whether the
Tribunal can entertain an enhancement petition in respect of a turnover which
was not before the assessing authority is concluded by a decision of this
Court in Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes v. Panayappan Leather
Industrises [1981] 47 STC 88. A perusal of the said judgment shows that the
question that arose here is covered by the said decision. In that case an
identical question arose and the Bench to which one of us was a party has
held, after referring to the provisions contained in section 36(3)(a)(i) and
36(3)(a)(ii) that in an appeal preferred by an assessee under section 36 the
entire assessment is set at large before the Tribunal and the Tribunal can go
into the correctness or otherwise of the order of assessment by the assessing
authority himself and not the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
alone against which the appeal has been filed before the Tribunal and that if
it comes to the conclusion that the assessing authority has not assessed a
turnover which is liable to be assessed under the law or assessed a turnover
at a rate lower than that sanctioned by the law, it is open to the Tribunal to
set aside the order of the assessing authority and revise the assessment or
direct him to make a fresh assessment in the light of the opinion expressed by
it.

4\. In view of the said decision with which we respectfully agree, we have to
set aside that portion of the order of the Tribunal which rejected the State's
petition for enhancement and direct the Tribunal to entertain the State's
application for enhancement and consider the same on merits, and pass
appropriate orders. There will, however, be no order as to costs.

