

Supreme Court of India

Debu Mahato vs The State Of West Bengal on 15 February, 1974

Equivalent citations: AIR 1974 SC 816, 1974 CriLJ 699, (1974) 4 SCC 135, 1974
(6) UJ 182 SC

Author: Bhagwati

Bench: D Palekar, P Bhagwati, V K Iyer

JUDGMENT Bhagwati, J.

1\. The District Magistrate, 24 Parganas, in exercise of the power conferred
upon him under Sub-section (1) read with Sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the
Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971, passed an order dated 28th August,
1972 directing that the petitioner be detained as it was necessary to do so
with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the
maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community. Pursuant to
the order of detention the petitioner was arrested on 30th August, 1972 and
immediately on his arrest the grounds on which the order of detention was made
were served on him by a communication dated 28th August, 1972 made under
Section 8 Sub-section (1) of the Act. There was only one ground set out in
this communication and it was in the following terms.

That on 11-8-72 at about 14.05 hrs. you and your associates were removing
three bales of empty gunny bags by breaking open wagon No. WR-386335 near
Goala Fatak North Cabin of Naihati Railway Yard. Being challenged by the local
R.G. members you and your associates fled away leaving behind the stolen Gunny
bags.

The State Government thereafter placed before the Advisory Board the ground on
which the order of detention was made as also the representation sent by the
petitioner against the order of detention and on receipt of the report of the
Advisory Board that there was in its opinion sufficient cause for the
detention of the petitioner the State Government passed an order dated 7th
October, 1972 confirming the detention of the petitioner. The petitioner
thereupon submitted from jail the present petition challenging the legality of
his detention and praying for a writ of habeas corpus for setting him free.

2\. The petitioner contended that there was only one ground communicated to
him under Section 8; Sub-section (1) as forming the basis of the order of
detention and it was that on the night of 11th August, 1972 the petitioner
with his associates was found removing three bales of empty jute bags after
breaking a railway wagon in Naihati railway yard and when challenged by the
local railway Protection Force the petitioner and his associates fled away
leaving the booty. This ground, said the petitioner, was a single solitary
ground which could hardly sustain the inference that the petitioner was acting
in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential
to the community and with a View to preventing him from so acting it was
necessary to detain him and the satisfaction of the District Magistrate in
this behalf was no satisfaction at all and could not support the making of the
order of detention. The respondent disputed the validity of this contention
but realising that merely on the strength of the isolated act attributed to
the petitioner in this ground, it was not possible to justify the satisfaction
alleged to have been reached by the District Magistrate, the respondent urged
that wagon breaking had become a menacingly frequent crime which was seriously
affecting movement of essential commodities and in the context of this
background, the act of wagon breaking committed by the petitioner, though
single and solitary, could reasonably lead to the satisfaction that it was
necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from
indulging in further acts of wagon breaking. Now in a given situation where
wagon breaking as a crime has assumed alarming proportions and it is seriously
obstructing and thwarting smooth and quick flow of supplies and services
essential to the community, even a single act of wagon breaking by an
individual may be regarded in a different light and conceivably afford
justification for reaching a satisfaction that such individual may be detained
in order to prevent him from acting in a prejudicial manner. But here we do
not find anything in the affidavit filed by the District Magistrate in reply
to the petition even remotely suggesting that wagon breaking was a crime which
had become very rampant and it was in the context of such a situation that the
District Magistrate arrived at the requisite satisfaction even though the act
on which the satisfaction was founded was just one single solitary act of
wagon breaking. We fail to see how one solitary isolated act of wagon breaking
committed by the petitioner could possibly persuade any reasonable person to
reach the satisfaction that unless the petitioner was detained he would in all
probability indulge in further acts of wagon breaking. No criminal propeneion
for wagon breaking could reasonably be inferred from a single solitary act of
wagon breaking committed by the petitioner in the circumstances of the present
case. We must of course make it clear that it is not our view that in no case
can a single solitary act attributed to a person form the basis for reaching a
satisfaction that he might repeat such acts in future and in order to prevent
him from doing so, it is necessary to detain him. The nature of the act and
the attendant circumstances may in a given case be such as to reasonably
justify an inference that the person concerned, if not detained, would be
likely to indulge in commission of such acts in future. The order of detention
is essentially a precautionary measure and it is based on a reasonable
prognosis of the future behavior of a person based on his past conduct judged
in the light of the surrounding circumstances. Such past conduct may consist
of one single act or of a series of acts. But whatever it be, it must be of
such a nature that an inference can reasonably be drawn from it that the
person concerned would be likely to repeat such acts so as to warrant his
detention. It may be easier to draw such an inference where there is a series
of acts evincing a course of conduct but even if there is a single act, such
an inference may justifiably be drawn in a given case. Here, however that is
not possible. We do not think that one single act of wagon breaking attributed
to the petitioner was of such a character that any reasonable man could be
satisfied, merely on the basis of the commission of such a solitary isolated
act, that the petitioner would be likely to indulge in further acts of wagon
breaking in future and in order to prevent him from doing so, he must be
detained. The satisfaction of the District Magistrate recited in the order of
detention was, therefore, no satisfaction at all or was in any event
colourable and it could not form the basis for the making of the order of
detention.

3\. There was also another angle from which the validity of the order of
detention was challenged on behalf of the petitioner. This second line of
attack was based on the averments in paragraph 7 of the affidavit filed by the
District Magistrate in reply to the petition. These averments showed that what
weighted with the District Magistrate in making the order of detention was not
merely one single solitary act of wagon breaking attributed to the petitioner
in the grounds furnished to him, but also the fact that the petitioner was
"one of the notorious wagon breakers and was engaged in systematic breaking of
railway wagons and committing theft of rice and wheat" from railway wagons.
The grounds on which the order of detention was really made, therefore,
included the ground that the petitioner was a notoricus wagon breaker who was
systematically engaged in breaking railway wagons and committing theft of rice
and wheat. This ground was, however, not communicated to the petitioner and he
was not given an opportunity of making a representation against it. This was
clearly in breach of the requirement of Sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the
Act and it also constituted violatton of the Constitutional guarantee embodied
in Article 22, Clause (5) of the Constitution. The order of detention was,
thus, vitiated by a serious infirmity and it must be held to be invalid. We
are supported in this view by two decisions of this Court in Shaik Hanif v.
State of West Bengal W.P. Nos. 1979 of 1973 etc., dec. on February 1, 1974 and
Bhut Nath Made v. State of West Bangal. W.P. No 1456 of 1973, decided on
February 8, 1974.

4\. We, therefore, allow the petition and issue a writ of habeas corpus
quashing and setting aside the order of detention made against the petitioner.
We may point out that, this being our view, we direct, on the conclusion of
the hearing of the petition, that the petitioner be set at liberty forthwith
and no futher order, therefore, now remains to be passed in that behalf.

