

Supreme Court of India

Commissioner Of Income Tax, ... vs I.A.E.C. (Pumps) Ltd., Madras on 3 April,
1997

Equivalent citations: 1998 232 ITR 316 SC, (1998) 8 SCC 460

Bench: K Paripoornan, S S Ahmad

ORDER

1\. These appeals are by the Revenue against the judgment of the Madras High
Court rendered in Tax Cases Nos. 59 of 1972 and 333 and 234 of 1974, dated
14-3-1977.

2\. Broadly, three questions were referred to the High Court. In all of them,
the question involved is "whether the amount paid by the respondent-assessee
to the foreign collaborator for technical know-how is a capital expenditure or
a revenue expenditure?" The High Court referred to the decision of this Court
reported in CIT v. Ciba of India Ltd., and also the agreement in question. It
held that ultimately, the question is to be decided on the basis of the
relevant agreement. According to the High Court, the only general principle
that can be derived from the decisions, is whether under the terms of the
agreement, the assessee acquired a "benefit of an enduring nature" which will
constitute "acquisition of an asset" and so the amount paid for the same is a
"capital expenditure" or whether the assessee had only acquired technical
knowledge for the manufacture of any particular item for a specific duration,
and he acquired only a "license to use the other party's patent and knowledge"
and the amount paid would only be a "revenue expenditure". Having taken a
proper view of the principles to be applied, the High Court arrived at the
following conclusion:

"Having regard to the said Clauses, we are clearly of the opinion that the
Tribunal was right in its conclusion that the whole of the amount paid by the
assessee constitutes revenue expenditure and has to be allowed as a deduction.
From the terms of the agreement referred to above, the following facts are
clear;

(1) The agreement itself provides that what was granted by Aturia to the
assessee is merely a license to use its patents and designs exclusively in
India;

(2) The agreement is for a duration of 10 years with the parties having the
option to extend the agreement or renew the same, subject to the approval of
the Government of India;

(3) During the currency of the agreement, Aturia had undertaken not to
surrender its patents without the consent of the assessee and to make
available to the assessee any improvements, modifications and additions to the
designs;

(4) Aturia has also undertaken to enable the assessee to defend any
counterfeit by others and also had undertaken to (NC) expenses with reference
thereto;

(5) The assessee shall not disclose to third parties any of the documents made
available by Aturia to the assessee without having received a written
authorisation from Aturia.

We are of the opinion that the above features clearly establish that what was
obtained by the assessee is only a license and what was paid by the assessee
to Aturia is only a license fee and not the price for acquisition of any
capital asset."

3\. We heard counsel. We are of the view that the High Court posed the correct
question that arose for consideration and also applied the proper principles
of law to the instant case. By applying the proper principles of law to the
agreement in question, the High Court concluded that the amounts paid to the
collaborator is only a "license fee" and not the price for acquisition of a
"capital asset". It was concluded that the entire payment constitutes revenue
expenditure and the questions were answered in favour of the assessee.

4\. We are of the opinion that the reasoning and conclusion of the High Court
are unassailable. The High Court rightly held that the expenditure incurred in
the present cases by the assessee is only a revenue expenditure. These appeals
fail and are dismissed with no order as to costs.

