

Delhi High Court

Eastern Book Company And Ors. vs D.B. Modak And Ors. And Mr. Navin J. ... on
27 September, 2002

Equivalent citations: 101 (2002) DLT 205

Author: S Sinha

Bench: S Sinha, A Sikri

JUDGMENT S.B. Sinha, C.J.

1\. Eastern Book Company, a well known publishing concern had filed two suits
bearing Nos. 624/2000 and 758/2000 before this Court for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of copyright, moral rights, unfair competition,
damages etc against the respondents.

The appellant is a publisher of a well-known journal known as Supreme Court
Cases. It allegedly reports all reportable and unreportable judgments of the
Supreme Court. In 1996, the second appellant introduced a data based package
on CD-ROMs for finding out the Supreme Court ruling known as SCC-Online Case
Finder. The respondents launched a software package entitled "The Laws" and
"Jurix".

The said suits were founded, inter alia, on infringement of copyright and
unfair competition. Copyright was claimed in the copy-editing of the judgment.
According to the appellant, the respondent had copied the said notes and
copied the text of the judgment as published in the SCC and thereby infringed
its copyright.

2\. Various interim applications were filed for injunction and interim orders
of injunction was passed in the suits from time to time. However, the
respondent filed applications for vacation of the stay order. The said IAs
filed by the parties were taken up for hearing together and by reason of the
impugned judgment dated 17.1.2001, a learned Single Judge of this Court
dismissed the appellant's applications for injunction.

However, before the learned Single Judge the respondent conceded that
appellants have copyright of head notes and as such they undertook not to
reproduce these head notes in their CD ROMS.

3\. By order dated 9.3.2001 applications for injunction filed in both the
suits were dismissed, the operative portion whereof reads as follows :-
"Accordingly, it is ordered that during the pendency of these appeals the
respondents will be entitled to sell their CD-ROMs with the text of the
judgment of the Supreme Court along with their own head notes which should not
in any way be copy of the head notes and the text of the appellants".

4\. Alleging willful violation of the said order the appellant also filed a
CCP Nos. 402/01 and 377/01. The respondents also filed an application for
clarification of the said order.

5\. Mr. Sunil Gupta, the learned counsel for the appellants would submit that
although the appellants cannot claim any copyright in the judgments which is
within the public domain and is covered by Section 14 of the Copyright Act,
but in relation to the other matters as specified in the plaints, they are so
entitled.

6\. In the said process, effort, imagination, and skill of the Chief Editor of
the SCC is involved.

It was a common case of both the parties that the judgments of the Supreme
Court are in public domain and nobody can claim copyright therein. However,
the argument of Mr. Gupta counsel for the appellant was that for publication
of these judgments in their journal - SCC - the appellant is made upon
certified copies thereof from the Registry of the Supreme Court, which forms
the raw material. The appellants through their editor and other employees etc.
apply labour, skill, expertise and expenditure and thereafter the judgments
are published in SCC. In the process not only punctuation marks like coma,
semi colon etc are added in the text of the judgment but also corrections are
made in the judgment for which the consent is obtained from the Hon'ble Judge
concerned, the author of the said judgment. Head notes and long notes are
prepared and editorials, wherever necessary are added. This is ultimate
product involving labour and skill of the appellant in which the appellant has
copyright.

7\. The copyright is claimed in three broad heads - i) original literary work;

ii) editorial work comprising of selection, sequence and arrangement of head
notes, editorial notes and comments, para numbers, verification, cross
citation, pre-reference and footnotes; and iii) copy-editing works and proof
reading.

8\. Learned counsel would contend that it is beyond any pale of doubt or
dispute that law reports can claim copyright in relation to the
aforementioned. Reliance has been placed on :

English Law A. Butterworth v. Robinson (1801) 5 Ves. Jjn, 709 B. Sweet v.
Benning, 16C.B. 458, (1855) C. Incorporated Council of law Reporting for
England and Wales v. W. Green and Sons (1912) WN (Eng) 243 (1912) Copyright
Cases 1911-1916 D. Halsbury's Laws of England Vol 9(2) (Reissue) Butterworths,
1998 Indian Law E. Jogesh Chandra Chaudhari v Mohim Chandra Ray (1915) 18 CWN
1078 F. N.T. Raghunathan v All India Reported AIR 1971 Bom 48  American Law I.
Oasis Publishing Co v. West Publishin G. Callaghan v Myers, 128 US 617: 32 L.
Ed 547 (1988) H. West Publishing Co v. Mead Data Central Inc., 799 F.2d 1219
(8th Cir. 1986) g Co., 924 F. Supp.

918 (D. Minn. 1996) J. Paul Goldstein: Copyright: Principles Law and Practice,
Vol I (Little Brown & Co)

9\. It was contended that literary and original in the expression 'original
literary work' in the copyright law is enumerated in several English and
Indian authorities, which are as follows :-

a) The standard of originality is a low one, no quality, style or literary
finish is required; what is required is the expenditure of more than trivial
effort and the relevant skill in the creation of the work (Copinger & Skone
Jones on Copyright 14th Edn. (Sweet & Maxwell, 1999), paras 3-89 to 3-94;
walter v. Lane, University of London v. University of Tutorial Press, Jagdish
Prasad v. Parmeshwar, Govindan v. Gopalakrishna; Burlington Home Shopping v.
Rajnish Chibber). Reliance has also been placed on the meaning of terms
"literary" and "original" in the expression "original literary work" in the
context of copyright law has been given in several English and Indian
authorities and can be summarized as follows :

i) Independent labour, skill and expenditure by the author are required;

ii) No original or inventive thought is required, the originality required
relates to the expression of the thought; and

iii) What is required is not that the expression must be in an original or
novel form but that the work must not be copied from another work; it should
originate from the author.

b) The appellants make various creative, imaginative and useful inputs,
insertions and improvements in and also make various other contributions and
additions to the official texts of the judgments and orders of the Supreme
Court before printing and publishing them as their version of the judgments in
SCC. These acts involve considerable amount of time, labour, skill, learning,
judgment and expenditure on the part of the appellant. Hence these inputs,
insertion and improvements are well above the mark of originality required in
law for the appellants work to be called an original literary work.

10\. According to the learned counsel inputs, insertion and improvement as a
result of the editing to the final text of judgments would amount to
originality wherein the following kinds of contributions are made by the
authors.

Copy-editing : Copy-editing is an activity essential for publication of any
standard work and is universally recognised and practiced by all reputed
publishing houses throughout the world. It is aimed at achieving uniformity in
spelling of names, checking of spellings, grammar, idioms, maxims,
abbreviations, capitalization, hyphenation, indentation for quotes,
formatting, type setting etc. In SCC copy-editing is done as per the long
standing house style of SCC and the appellant.

11\. The learned counsel contends that the learned Single Judge in passing the
impugned judgment wrongly relied upon the decision of the American Supreme
Court in Callaghan v Myers, 128 US 617 in so far as it failed to take into
consideration that the labour, skill and expenditure form an integral part of
the original literary work wherein copyright subsists. Learned Single Judge,
Mr. Gupta, would argue, omitted to consider that the inputs can improve the
judgment whereupon the appellant relied upon for claiming copyright so far as
selection, verification, particular reference, footnote etc.

12\. Learned Single Judge, according to Mr. Gupta, failed to correctly apply
the said principles covering the concept of original literary work. Importance
of copy-editing in publication of the work, learned counsel would contend
would also be legal work but the learned single Judge committed a serious
error in holding that some addition of commas, removing typing error does not
allow the claim of copyright.

13\. Learned counsel as was done before the learned Single Judge as also
before us, gave several examples to show that the respondent barring few
omissions extensively copied the appellant's judgments, case by case, page by
page and word by word. It has been contended that the respondent with the help
of computer device and electronic data converted and digitized the entire
material published in SCC and reproduced verbatim on their CDs and sold them
in the name of Grand Jurix and the Laws.

14\. Although the learned Single Judge has noticed the same and recorded a
finding that the respondents have copied appellants' various works but wrongly
applied the legal text for determining piracy with the respondent. It was
submitted that although in the judgment of a court, no copyright can be
claimed but in relation thereto the appellant did go to original source, i.e.,
the court's official/certified copy of the judgment and spent its own skill,
labour and expenditure for reproducing the same. The appellant's work being
the original work the respondent were not entitled to copy the same by putting
the same on CD ROMs. The appellant's version of the judgment is printed and
published by the appellant in their journal.

15\. Mr. Lekhi, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent, submitted
that exercises purportedly taken recourse to by the appellant would amount to
copyright. Counsel would contend that whereas short head notes may be the
subject matter of copyright, the long head notes only contain quotations are
made from the judgment of the Supreme Court. According to the learned counsel,
if at this stage an order of injunction is passed the suit itself, for all
intent and purport, will stand disposed of.

16\. According to the learned counsel, the manner and mode of the alleged
labour, skill and expenditure made by the appellant will have to be tested in
evidence so as to enable the Court to find out as to whether the appellant
have been able to discharge their burden of proof. Learned counsel would
contend that in terms of the provisions of Section 4 of the Evidence Act, no
presumption can be raised in favor of the appellant. Learned counsel would
argue that a great deal of changes have been made by the Parliament in
enacting the 1957 Act vis-a-vis from 1912 Act or 1914 Act. The scheme of 1957
Act is entirely different and in that view of the matter decisions, which had
not been rendered under the new Act would not be considered to binding
authority. Counsel would contend that the appellants have not registered their
copyright. Originality within its scheme, as such cannot be protected like
passing off matters. There is not creativity or originality in the knowledge
and scheme in the matter of editorial or copying work, which would entitle the
appellant to have injunction in their favor.

17\. Skill, according to the learned counsel, is a relative question, which at
this stage is based on a statement and not on fact. Drawing our attention to
various provisions of the Copyright Act, the counsel would contend that
computer programme stands on a different footing. According to the learned
counsel, it was incumbent upon the appellant to show, having regard to the
provisions of the Act, as to what rights have been infringed and who is the
author of the computer programme. Before us, the learned counsel has drawn our
attention to the originality of the work by comparing the judgments in
Macmillan & Co. v. K & J Cooper, AIR 1924 P.C. 75 to show that the head note
in the Indian Appeals is a clear pointer to the originality and abridgement.

18\. Learned counsel would contend that on cross-reference or cross citation,
no copyright can be claimed nor correction of some typographical error in the
judgment would lead to any infringement of copyright. Learned counsel would
submit that having regard to the decision in Callaghan's case ( Supra )
originality has to be proved. Learned counsel would submit that the matter has
to be considered also from the point of view as to who are using the materials
and the nature thereof. According to Mr. Lekhi, lawyers who are subscribers of
the CD-ROMs normally would not go for head note and for their own use, they
will have to read the entire judgment and therefore question of lawyers being
mislead would not arise. It was submitted that the appellate court would not
normally interfere with the discretionary jurisdiction exercised by the trial
court. In support of the said plea reliance has been placed on Rampal Singh v.
Rias Ahmad Ansari and Anr. 1990 Suppl SCC 727.

19\. Relying on the decision of the Supreme Court in Colgate Pamolive India
Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. , counsel would submit that the test laid down
therein must be taken into consideration before an injunction is granted.
Learned counsel would also contend that interest of general public in
disseminating knowledge as regards the legal position must be kept in view
before the order of injunction is passed. Learned counsel in this connection
has relied upon R.G. Anand v. Delux Films and Ors., .

20\. Ms. Pratibha Singh, learned counsel appearing for the respondent in FAO
(OS) 45/2001, would submit that the petitioner has not prayed for any relief
in the selection of judgments and, thus, their submissions on that score
should not be entertained. Even in the application for injunction, the
appellants have not claimed for any such relief as it was presumed that there
cannot be any copyright on mere selection of judgments.

As such the argument of Mr. Gupta, according to the counsel, is merely an
afterthought and amounts to expanding the scope of appeal. Counsel would
submit that in its CD-ROMs the respondent has put in 27000 judgments from 1950
till March, 2000. Even the Central Acts and rules framed there under are
available in the said CD-ROMs. Therein various search mechanism have been
provided including subject-wise, by name, by parties name, name of advocate,
by the name of the High Court or the name of the Act, by the date of judgment
and by the name of the impugned judgment, etc. Also cross-references for each
judgment is provided so as to enable the user to immediately know the
decisions cited, where the same has been reported. Even details regarding the
judgments, which have been reversed, have been provided. According to the
respondent, one of the important features of the respondent's work is the
feature of hyper-linking, in terms whereof when a user arrives at a head note
a link is provided and a list of various judgments, which deal with the
subject appear on the screen. Counsel has placed before this court the salient
differences between the appellants' and respondents' work which are in the
following terms :-

S.No.

PARTICULARS SCC THE LAWS

a) Supreme Court Judgments (Priod) 1969-2000 1950-2000

b) No. of judgments 20900 Appx 26000 appx

c) Central Acts Nil  1000

d) Rules on Central Acts Nil 700 appx

e) Regulations Nil 100 appx

f) orders Nil 200 appx

g) Schemes Nil 30 appx SCC ONLINE DIFFERENCES:

h) Hyper linking feature Nil Yes

i) Text of judgment Contains only head notes (Full text CD ROMs have heen
recently introduced) Contains text also since launch

ii) Equivalent journals Equivalent judgments of 10 journals Equivalent for 45.

21\. According to the counsel, the prices are incomparable. So far as the
appellant's work is priced at Rs. 72,000/- that of the respondent is only Rs.
12,000/-. Drawing our attention to certain reported judgments, it has been
pointed out that the purported originality as claimed in para 15 of the plaint
is not correct. Our attention has been drawn to the following chart :-

Discrepancies in Uniform styling claimed by SCC SCC Plaint The Laws Reply
SCC's Reply The Laws Reply

1\. Phrase used "Judgment was delivered by"

We do not use it Has been copied by the espondent Not true as we do not use 1.

2\. Paragraph numbering Common to other journals like "Judgment Today" and AIR
viz.

1979(4) SCC 429 and Shown some examples of different paragraph numbers
Numbering of paragraphs is a common practice

3\. Uniform style of writing date as December 26, 1968 or 26-12-1998 claimed
Inconsistent as in format of date used is 26.12.1968 and also 26th December,
1968 Differences only in quoted parts Not stated earlier

4\. Uniform style of writing prosecution witness as PW claimed.

Inconsistent as in 1973 (3) SCC at page 232 'P.W.' used.

Also in 1970(1) SCC 430 again 'P.W.' Feature adopted after 1971 and copied by
the appellant Admit that no uniform style and so have no copyright.

5\. Manner of representing amounts in four figures Inconsistent as in amounts
are shown as "Rs.

2,000" and "Rs. 1,650"

Standard Format adopted arter 1 980 only Admit that no uniform style and so
have no copyright.

6\. Use of1 footnotes for giving citation.

Common to other journals like SCR viz. 1972(3) SCR 764 Admit that it is common
to other journals As not unusual practice it clearly follows That they have no
unique uniform styling

7\. Latin words andphrases not in italics Inconsistent as in 1995(4) SCC at
page 281 under para b 'certiorari' writtenin italics and in 1994(4) Admit as
editorial Proves no uniform styling SCC at page 321 under para d "generalia
specialibus non derogant" again in italics and in 998 (9) SCC under line f
"causae sine quibus" non is again in italics.

mistake as they admit.

8 Hindi Words in italics Inconsistent as in 1994(4) SCC at page 591 Thekedar
word not in italics. Similarly in 1998 9) SCC under para 4 of the word '
muklawa ' is not in italics and also on page 2 1 7 under para 5 the wrd
'namsudra' does not appear in italics. In 1999(1) SCC page 152 para 4 the
words 'chhuras' 'lathis', 'dandas' do not appear in italics. On page 314 under
line d the word 'zirayai' does not appear in italics. On page 325 under para
12, line 6 the word 'lathi does not appear in italics.

Again admit as few editorial mistakes As random sample taken, innumerable
others are bound to exist and prove no uniform styling adopted by the
appellant.

9\. Manner of writing sub-section etc. Similarly written in otherjournals like
Judgment Today etc. ' Admit as found in otherjournals As admitted show that
nounique uniform style.

10\. Uniform capitalization in manner of writing court, appeals, etc
Inconsistent as in SCC (1) 1987 at page 506 last para 'Courts' written as
Courts and in 2000 (#) SCC at page 535 under para g similarly 'Court' written
as 'court' Admit the discrepancies and claim that so copies by the respondent
Shows no uniform styling and even if copies by the respondent does not give
them a copyright.

22\. It was submitted that unless the appellant show uniformity no copyright
can be claimed. According to the counsel, the appellant also reproduced the
judgment with a view that such incorporation or change in the judgment could
not give rise to copyright. Counsel would contend that it is well-established
principle of law, public policy and statutorily provided exception that no one
can own copyright in the judgment. Reliance has been placed on Section 52(4)
of the said Act, as also on the following decisions:-

* R.G. Anand's case (Supra); 

* Macmillan & Co.'s case (Supra); 

* S.K. Dutt v. Law Book Company and Ors., ; 

* Sukhwinder Singh Alias Jaggi v. State of Punjab 1994 Supp (3) SCC 727; 

* Bolineedi Venkataramaiah and Ors. v. State of A.P. 1994 Supp (3) SCC 732 * Mahadev Bapuji Mahajan (Dead) and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra 1994 Supp (3) SCC 748; 

* Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India 1995 Supp (3) SCC 316; 

* Chand Rani (Smt.) (Dead) by LRS. v. Kamal Rani (Smt.) (Dead) by LRS ; 

* Surendra Nath Mohanty and Anr. v. State of Orissa . 

23\. Learned counsel would submit that decisions cited by Mr. Gupta, counsel
for the appellant, has no application to the present case. Learned counsel
would submit that for claiming copyright, the requirement is originality of
the work. In this connection, it is argued that in order to qualify for a
separate copyright as a derivate or collective work, the additional matter
injected in a prior work, or the manner of rearranging or otherwise
transforming a prior work, must constitute more than a minimal, contribution.

It was urged that to extend copyright ability to miniscule variations would
simply put a weapon for harassment in the hands of mischievous copiers intent
on appropriating and monopolizing public domain work. Cert. Denied. 429 US 87
(1976). See Caliga v. Inter Ocean Newspaper Co. 215 US 182 (1909) Grove Press
Inc v. Collectors Publication Inc. 264 F. Supp 603 (CD Cal 1967) (400,00
changes consisting "almost entirely to elimination and addition of
punctuation, changes of spelling of certain words, elimination and addition of
quotation marks and correction of typographical errors "held trivial and
hence, not copyrightable).

24\. Learned counsel would contend that in any event, as the appellant has
asked for damages as also qualified the same no injunction as prayed for
should be granted, as, in the event of success in the suit, the appellant can
be adequately compensated in the monetary terms.

25\. Ms. Pratibha Singh had pointed out that although in this appeal the
correctness of decision of the American Supreme Court in Feist Publications v.
Rural Telephone had been challenged, the said decisions was cited by the
appellant in support of their case.

26\. Having regard to the order proposed to be passed by us, it is not
necessary to refer to all the decisions cited at the bar.

27\. Copyright can be claimed in respect of the original literary, dramatic
and or artist work, cinematographic films and sound recording. Copyright has
been defined in Section 14 of the Copyright Act to mean exclusive right to do
or authorised to do any of the acts as enumerated in Clause (a) to (e). Clause
(a) and (b) which are important for the purpose of the instant case, reads as
under:

(a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a computer
programme.-

(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in
any medium by electronic means;

(ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;

(iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;

(iv) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;

(iv) to make any cinematographic film or sound recording in respect of the
work.

(v) To make any translation of the work

(vi) to make any adaptation of the work;

(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or in adaptation of the work, any of
the acts specified in relation to the work in Sub-clause

(i) to (vi)

(b) in the case of a computer programme.-

(i) to do any of the acts specified in Clause (a)

(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer or sale or hire any copy of the
computer programme, regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on
hire on earlier occasions;

28\. Section 16 specifies that no copyright can be claimed except as provided
in the Act. Chapter 10 provides for registration of the copyright but it is
well settled that copyright need not be registered.

Chapter 11 provides for infringement of copyright.

Section 51 provides:-

"51. When copyright infringed.-- Copyright in a work shall be deemed to be
infringed-

a) when any person, without a license granted by the owner of the copyright or
the Registrar of Copyrights under this Act or in contravention of the
conditions of a license so granted or of any condition imposed by a competent
authority under this Act.-

(i) does anything, the exclusive right to do which is by this Act conferred
upon the owner of the copyright, or

(ii) permits for profit any place to be used for the communication of the work
to the public where such communication constitutes the infringement of the
copyright in the work, unless he was not aware and had no reasonable ground
for believing that such communication to the public would be an infringement
of copyright; or

(b) when any person-

(i) makes for sale or hire, or sells or lets for hire, or by way of trade
displays or offers for sale or hire, or

(ii) distributes either for the purpose of trade or to such an extent as to
affect prejudicially the owner of the copyright.

29\. Section 52, which is an exception to Section 51, provides for the matter,
which would not constitute matter of copyright.

30\. As noticed hereinbefore, the law stands well settled that a copyright can
be claimed on short notes. Short note is note necessarily an abridgement of
judgment.

31\. The doctrine of 'State decisis' is well known concept of law of precedent
which was taken recourse to by the lawyers whence it was found that instead of
repeating the arguments over and over again in a similar matter citation of
the judgments, which had laid down the law in an earlier case serve the
purpose.

Role and importance of the law reports stand recognized in all legal systems
and all the jurisdictions of the world. Law reports, therefore, have been
considered to be the original literary work particularly in those old days
when the solicitors used to remain present in the court during arguments and
in their reports used to state the fact of the matter and arguments presented
by the counsel.

32\. Short note of judgment, however, is relatively a modern concept. The
importance of head-notes lies in the fact that not only for initial research a
lawyer or a judge knows what are the points which are decided in the case as
also to locate the same in the judgment. Headnotes, in fact, have given rise
to publication of digests, which, as is well known, is effective tool in the
hands of advocates and judges for making research as also to find case law on
a particular issue involved. Sometimes, the court of law instead of quoting
from the judgment, quoted from the headnote itself. See for example Raghupati
v. State of Andhra Pradesh .

33\. Quotations from the judgments in support of the short notes namely long
notes may also aim at creativity in as much as it requires a great deal of
labour and skill and as such in the long notes not only relevant sentences are
excepts and such excerpts are made from different paragraphs in case there is
more than one.

We, therefore, are of the opinion that learned counsel for the respondents
have rightly conceded that the appellants can claim copyright in head-
notes/short notes.

There cannot be any doubt that a copyright can be claimed in the editorial.
Editorial notes are the creation of the editor himself. The same not only
requires originality, it may be fruit of the research as for example in Wander
Ltd. & Anr. v. Antox India P. Ltd. 1990 (Supp) SCC 727, whereupon Mr. Lekhi
and Ms. Pratibha Singh had placed strong reliance as regards passing off the
editorial note. In such headnotes the editor adds his own understanding or
view with regard to some aspect of the judgment, which may not only be
clarificatory in nature but also bear a critical note in regard thereto. In
such editorial note a personal thought, a precept is reflected in the law
report and the same cannot form part of the main judgment itself. Such
editorial notes and comments are given not only at the beginning of the
judgment but also in between or footnote.

34\. Copyright can be claimed only in derivative work. A derivative work
consists of a contribution of original material to a pre-existing work so as
to recast, transform or adapt the pre-existing work. This would include a new
version of a work in the public domain and abridgment adaptation, arrangement,
dramatization or translation. A collective work will qualify for copyright by
reason of the original effort expended in the process of compilation, even if
no new matter is added. In determining whether a work based upon a prior work
is separately copyrightable as a derivative or collective work, the courts may
not properly consider whether the new work is a qualitative improvement over
the prior work. However, in order to qualify for a separate copyright as a
derivative or collective work, the additional matter injected in a prior work
or the manner of rearranging or otherwise transforming a prior work, must
constitute more than a minimal contribution. Applying this test we will have
to examine as to which aspect of the reported judgment in SCC, the appellant
can claim copyright.

32\. In the present case, we are dealing with allegations of the appellants to
the effect that judgments of the Supreme Court, which have been published by
the appellant in its Journal, namely, Supreme Court Cases are copied by the
respondent herein while preparing their CD-ROMs. It is not disputed that under
Section 52(1)(q) of the Copyright Act, the reproduction or publication of any
judgment or order of a Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority shall not
constitute infringement of copyright of the Government in these works. It is
because of the reason that orders and judgments of the Courts are in public
domain and everybody has a right to use and publish them. However, the case of
the appellant is that after getting certified copies of the judgments, the
appellant has invested its skill and labour and, therefore, it acquires
copyright therein. The skill, according to it, is in the following manner:-

(a) In collection of judgments and to decide as to which judgment is to be
reported, making corrections in the judgments. It further alleges that
paragraphs in the judgments are numbered. In addition, lay-out and pagination
of the judgments reported by the appellant are totally different as per the
style it has adopted, which is unique to its Journal and is not available in
other law Reports;

(b) Head-notes and footnotes are prepared and wherever necessary editorial
comments are given; and

(c) After the head-notes, long notes are added for giving fair idea of what
the judgment is about.

33\. Insofar as alleged labour and skill in respect of (a) above is concerned,
according to the learned counsel appearing for the appellant, it involves
tremendous expenditure in terms of collection of judgment(s), selection of
judgment(s), editorial skill, analysis, proof reading, etc. and on this basis,
it is claimed that the work becomes literary work of the appellant in terms of
Section 2(o) of the Copyright Act. Although the learned counsel appearing for
the appellant admitted that the other persons had right to public the same
judgments, they could do so only after obtaining the same from the original
source, i.e., after obtaining certified copy of the judgment.

We do not agree entirely with the submission of the learned counsel appearing
on behalf of the appellant. Merely by making certain corrections in the
judgment(s) or putting numbers or arranging the said judgment(s) in a
particular manner while printing, the appellant cannot claim that it becomes
the original literary work of the appellant. If the right of persons like the
appellant, who are merely reporting the judgments of the Courts, is stretched
to this extent, then after a judgment is reported by a particular Journal,
others would be barred from doing the same and the very purpose of making
these judgments in public domain, therefore, would be frustrated.

As already pointed out above Section 2(a) of the Copyright Act clearly
stipulates that a work, which is made or published under the direction or
control of any Court, Tribunal or judicial authority in India is a Government
work. As per Section 52(1)(q) of the Copyright Act, the reproduction or
publication of any judgment or order of the Court, Tribunal or other judicial
authority shall not constitute infringement of copyright of the Government in
these works.

34\. It may not be disputed that the appellant is not the author of these
judgments and merely by choosing as to which judgment should be reported or
making certain corrections therein or giving paragraph numbers, the character
of the judgment does not change and neither it becomes so materially different
from the original judgment nor it becomes the original literary work of the
publisher.

Once a person has right to obtain certified copy of the judgment from the
Registry of a Court and to publish it, we cannot subscribe to the argument of
the appellant that he cannot have right to take the text of the judgment from
a Journal where it is already reported and he has to obtain it from the Court
only in order to publish it. Once a thing is in public domain, no copyright
can be claimed therein, it would be permissible for any person to copy the
same.

35\. The learned Single Judge after dealing with the case of Bellsouth
Advertising & Publishing Corporation v. Donnelley Information Publishing INC
and Anr. 33 IPR 587 culled out the ratio in the following manner:-

"It is thus clear the protection of copyright must inhere in a creatively
original selection of facts and not in the creative means used to discover the
facts. In the present case, all that has been argued by learned counsel for
the plaintiff is that the manuscripts of the judgments are obtained from the
raw source, they are carefully reviewed, corrections made, cross references
and cross citations added, lay out and pagination is done, arranged in a
specific sequences and after giving a uniform style of dates, is printed and
published in the journal. None of this, in my opinion, is a creatively
original selection by the plaintiff and at best can be said to be a
reproduction of the judgments of the Court by giving paragraph numbers and
correcting the mistakes, if any, therein. The judgments of the Court are
available to every person and just because another person instead of obtaining
the judgments from the raw source has copied them from the publication of the
plaintiff will not mean that the work has become the original literary work of
the publisher who published it for the first time. There being no copyright in
the judgments of the Court, the plaintiffs cannot claim copyright therein
merely by first publishing them in their journal."

We do not find any fault with the aforesaid reasoning so far as the question
of copyright in printing text of the judgment(s) after making certain
corrections of the nature mentioned by the appellant is concerned.

36\. We may state here that the learned counsel appearing for the appellant
had tried to argue that the American test laid down in the aforesaid case was
different from the test, which was laid down by the English Courts and insofar
as the copyright law in India was concerned, it was the English text, which
was to be applicable and the aforesaid test should not have been applied. We
need not go into this question while deciding this aspect of the matter,
namely, the claim of copyright of the appellant in the text of the judgment(s)
after making certain changes, as we are of the opinion that merely be making
such corrections or giving paragraph numbers, etc. the appellant cannot claim
copyright in the text of the judgment(s).

Suffice it to state, in this connection, that in S.K. Dutt's case (Supra), it
is held even by an Indian Court that an author of law commentary cannot claim
that once he quoted a passage in his book from either a decided case or a
standard work then no one else has any right again to quote that passage.

Therefore, we do not agree with the learned counsel appearing for the
appellant when the argues that the only mode of publication of these
judgment(s) should be to apply certified copy from the concerned Court(s) and
only then publish the same.

37\. We may also note with approval the following observations of the learned
Single Judge:-

"A reading of the aforesaid judgments clearly show that a matter in public
domain cannot be a private property. Under the Copyright Act, 1957 except
under the provisions of the Act, there cannot be copyright under the common
law. Under Section 16 of the Act, no person is entitled to copyright or any
similar right in any work whether published or unpublished otherwise than in
accordance with the provisions of the Act. Under Section 13 of the Act,
copyright subsists in the original literary, musical and artistic work,
cinematograph films and sound recordings and literary work includes computer
programmes, tables and compilations including computer data base. It is the
contention of learned counsel for the plaintiffs that since the publication of
the plaintiffs is their original literary work, which includes computer
programmes as well, reproduction of the same by the defendants in a data base
programme is clearly in infringement of their copyright subsisting in their
publications.

Under Section 17 of the Act, author of a work shall be the owner of a
copyright provided that in the case of a Government work, Government shall in
the absence of any contract to the contrary, be the first owner of the
copyright therein. The act of reproduction of any judgment or order of the
Court, Tribunal or any other judicial authority under Section 52(q) of the
Act, is not an infringement of the copyright. As already mentioned above, the
judgment of the Court after it is delivered is available to any person on his
being made an application to the Court for the purpose. The plaintiffs are
admittedly of the authors of the judgments. The judgments are delivered by the
Courts. Any person, therefore, can publish judgments of the Courts. The
plaintiffs may have happened to have first published the judgments but the
same will not mean that it can have a copyright therein. In my considered
opinion, no person can claim copyright in the text of the judgment. Merely
because the plaintiffs have made certain corrections in the judgments will not
give them a right to claim copyright therein. What has been done by the
plaintiffs is to correct the typographical mistakes in the judgments, insert
commas and full stops wherever necessary and give paragraph numbers to the
judgments. Almost all journals give their own paragraph numbers and paragraph
numbers of the plaintiffs publication as well as the publication of other
publishers are almost similar. Even if the paragraph numbers are different, it
will not mean that the plaintiffs can claim copyright in the paragraphs or the
mistakes, which have been made in the judgments of the Courts which are in
public domain. Nimmer on Copyright has observed that the changes consisting of
elimination, changes of spelling, elimination or addition of quotations and
corrections of typographical mistakes being trivial are not copyrightable. I
am fully in agreement with the observations of Nimmer mentioned above. It is
claimed by the plaintiffs that there is uniformity in style of writing and
they have, therefore, a copyright in their style of writing. I am unable to
agree with the plaintiffs. As already held, the judgments published in the
journal of the plaintiffs are only reproduction of the judgments of the Courts
with certain additions of commas, full stops, correction of errors, etc. in
which, in my opinion, the plaintiffs cannot claim any copyright."

38\. As far as claim of copyright in the head-notes is concerned, the learned
Single Judge observed:-

"There being no copyright in the text of the judgments, can be plaintiff claim
copyright in the head-notes? This is the only question, which remains for
consideration. A genuine abridgement of judgments of the Court is an original
work and can be the subject-matter of infringement of a copyright even if the
amount of originality is very small. However, in case the head-notes are
verbatim extracts from the judgments of the Court, there is no amount of skill
or labour involved in preparing the head-notes and no person can claim a
copyright therein."

We are of the opinion that the approach of the learned Single Judge was not
correct in making the aforesaid observation.

The learned Single Judge further observed:-

".....But, in case, the head-notes have been prepared by the plaintiffs with
their own labour and skill and there is originality and creativity in the
preparation of head-notes, there cannot be any dispute that the party which
has produced the head-notes will have a copyright therein. Re-production of
either a few sentences from the judgments of the Court or the entire paragraph
or the joining together of some of the sentences of the judgment in the head-
note, in my opinion, cannot be said to be either the creative or the original
work or the abridgement of the judgment of the Court."

39\. It is clear that the learned Single Judge was conscious of the principle
that there can be copyright in the head-notes. However, what was observed that
it would be only if these head-notes had been prepared by the appellant with
their own labour and skill; and there is originality and creativity in
preparation of the head-notes, but not when they are verbatim extracts from
the judgments. In observing this, to our mind, the learned Single Judge
committed an error. We are of the opinion that reading the judgment and
searching the important portion thereof and collecting sentences from various
places for the purpose of making head-notes would involve labour and skill.

40\. We have already stated the importance of such head-notes. A glimpse of
these head-notes would reflect as to what the particular case has decided.
Preparing of head-notes, it goes without saying, is an art. Many times head-
note, if prepared nicely, would indicate as to what the reported case decides.
On the other hand, a poorly prepared head-note may not be able to reflect the
true nature of the decision.

Therefore, even if while preparing the head-note, the sentences appearing in
the judgment at various places are simply reproduced definitely labour and
skill is still involved in selecting those sentences, which give palm top idea
of wider screen, namely, the wider version. These head-notes, as already
mentioned above, become tools for initial research and many times knowing the
ratio of the case and also where to locate the same in the judgment. Head-
notes have given rise to publication of Digest, which is an important tool for
making research and also to find case law on a particular issue involved.

In fact, the abridged version of CD-ROM of the appellant, namely, "SCC Online"
itself contains only the head-notes followed by long notes and not the entire
text of the judgment. Therefore, we hold that there would by copyright in the
head-notes to the judgment prepared by the appellant.

41\. Insofar as footnotes and editorial comments are concerned, it cannot at
all be denied that these are publisher's own creations and based on
publisher's own research. It does not require any lengthy discussion to hold
that there shall be copyright of the appellant in such footnotes and editorial
comments also. It is not necessary to discuss this aspect of the matter in
much more detail inasmuch the counsel appearing for the respondents conceded
at the bar that the appellant shall have a copyright in the head-notes as well
as footnotes and editorial comments.

42\. Insofar as long notes are concerned, we may hasten to add that, however,
reproduction from the judgment in the long head-notes by itself may not give
rise to right of copyright, but the arrangements made from different portions
of the judgment may give rise to a limited right in that behalf.

43\. Having determined the correct legal principles of copyright relating to
reporting of the judgments, we address the question of the nature of order,
which is required to be passed in the present case.

44\. The appellant had filed suits claiming injunction, which have been
rejected by the learned Single Judge and the applications for injunction under
Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC filed by the appellant in these cases were
dismissed. The respondents are, as pointed out above, preparing and selling
CD-ROMs of the Supreme Court judgments. The respondents are bringing new CD-
ROM every year. During this period, many versions of respondents' CD-ROMs have
been produced. Over a period of time, they have made various improvements.

The products, namely, CD-ROM cannot be compared with the printed book. For
operating a CD-ROM, one needs a computer. The access to the CD-ROM and search
for a particular judgment can be by adopting various search mechanism. The
quality of a CD-ROM depends on search mechanism inputs provided by its
producer. The ultimate product, therefore, may be entirely different from
printed Journal, namely, SCC in the instant case. For example, in FAO (OS) No.
45 of 2001, Ms. Pratibha Singh, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
respondent, pointed out these features by explaining that the respondent had
put into about 7,000 judgments from 1940 till March, 2000. The Journal
'Supreme Court Cases' started in the year 1969. Thus, the CD-ROM of the
respondent contains judgment seven for the period for which there are no SCC
Journals. Not only this, it was explained that the Central Acts and the Rules
framed there under are available in the said CD-ROM. Various search mechanism
have been provided, namely, subject-wise, by name, by parties name, name of
Advocate, name of the High Court, name of the Act, by date of the judgment,
etc. In addition, court references for each judgment are also provided. Even
details regarding judgments, which have been reversed, have been provided.
Another important feature highlighted is that of hyper-linking. All this needs
labour and skill, which in no case, could have been copied from the
appellant's Journal.

45\. Similar features are found in the products of the other respondents.
However, the CD-ROMs of different respondents are different in nature. This
itself goes to show that the said product cannot be the result of mere copying
as alleged. The respondents, as claimed by them, have their own infrastructure
with formidable work force, who put their collective brains, skill and labour
in producing the products in question. The latest versions of CD-ROMs of these
respondents are materially different from the appellant's publication. It may
be that in their initial version(s), the respondents had copied the head-notes
from the appellant's publication. However, that is not the position now. Their
product, which is available in the market today, is entirely different.
Therefore, no useful purpose would be served in granting the relief of
injunction as claimed by the appellant. The appellant by taking specious plea
that the respondents are copying the text of the judgment and/or at the most
some of the text of the judgments as reported by the appellant in its Journal
may have lifted in preparing CD-ROMs. That by itself would not be sufficient
to grant the appellant any injunction when in the text of the judgment the
appellant cannot claim any copyright. By adopting such a course, the appellant
cannot drive the respondents out of the said trade.

46\. For the reasons aforementioned, we are of the opinion that the ends of
justice would be met, if the Order of the learned Single Judge is modified by
directing, "the respondents/defendants shall be entitled to sell their C.D.
Roms with the text of the judgments of the Supreme Court along with their own
head-notes, editorial notes, if any, which should not in any way be copy of
the head-notes of the appellant / plaintiff. The respondents / defendant shall
also not copy the footnote(s) and editorial comment(s) appearing in the
Journal of the appellant/plaintiff." Before parting with the matters, however,
we may observe that we have considered the questions raised before us only for
a limited purpose viz. as to whether any order of injunction should be granted
or not and, therefore, it would be open to the learned Single Judge trying the
suit to adjudicate upon the respective contentions of the parties as their own
merits.

The appeals are disposed of in the aforesaid terms. For the view we have
taken, we do not intend to pass any separate orders in the Contempt Petitions
or the applications for clarifications. CM No. 163 of 2002 is also disposed
of.

There shall, however, be no order as to costs.

