

Bombay High Court

Essel Packaging Ltd. & Others vs Essel Tea Exports Ltd. & Others on 8 July,
1997

Equivalent citations: 1998 (3) BomCR 767

Author: S.H.Kapadia

Bench: S Kapadia

ORDER S.H.Kapadia, J.

1\. Defendants and their Advocate absent though served.

2\. The above suit has been filed for permanent injunction to restrain the
defendants herein from using the word "ESSEL" as part of the corporate name of
the defendants--Essels Tea Exports Limited. The suit is for permanent
injunction restraining the Defendants from using the word "ESSEL" to pass off
or enable others to pass off the goods and or business of the plaintiffs. The
plaintiffs have applied for grant of injunction in terms of prayers (a) and
(b) of the Notice of Motion which reads as fotlows:-

"(a) that pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, the Defendants
by themselves, their servants and agents or otherwise howsoever be restrained
by a perpetual order and injunction of this Honourable Court from in any
manner using the word ESSEL as part of their corporate name and/or trade name
and/or trade mark in order to pass off or enable others to pass off their
business or goods as and for those of the plaintiffs.

"(b) that pending the heating and final disposal of the suit the Defendants by
themselves, their servants and agents or otherwise howsoever be restrained by
a perpetual order and injunction of this Honourable Court from in any manner
using in relation to any of their business, goods and/ or services the word or
mark ESSEL or any other word or mark deceptively similar to the plaintiffs
mark and/or style ESSEL so as to pass off the defendants' business, goods and
services as and for those of the plaintiffs.

3\. Briefly stated the facts of the dispute are as follows:--

4\. The 1st plaintiffs are a company incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956. The first plaintiffs were incorporated on 22nd December 1982. The first
plaintiffs carry on business inter alia of manufacturing packaging materials.

5\. The 2nd plaintiffs are a company incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956. The 2nd plaintiffs were incorporated in the name of ESSEL's Amusement
Parks (India) Limited on 7-7-1987. Subsequently, from 20-4-1992, their name
was changed from ESSEL's Amusement Park (India) Limited to Pan India Paryatan
Limited. The 2nd plaintiffs carry on the business through and in the name of
two divisions, namely, "ESSEL Vision" and "ESSEL WORLD Consultancy Services".
ESSEL Vision carries on business of film production, distribution etc. ESSEL
WORLD Consultancy Services carry on business of providing know how for setting
up amusement parks etc. The 2nd plaintiffs are the proprietors of well-known
Amusement Park in Bombay by the name "ESSEL WORLD".

6\. Plaintiffs No. 3 are the company incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956. Plaintiffs No. 3 were incorporated on 24-8-1978 initially as a Private
Company. On 4-1-1989. plaintiffs No. 3 became a public company. Plaintiffs No.
3 carry on business of export of various items such as tea, coffee, food
grains etc. Plaintilfs No. 3 have also applied for registration of the word
"ESSEL" as trade mark for edible articles for human consumption which covers
tea, coffee, etc. under Indian Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. The said
application is pending. In the said application, user of the mark is claimed
from January 1993 as the plaintiffs No. 3 have been using the same since 1993.

7\. Plaintiffs No. 4 are a partnership Firm whose pariners are the family
members/ close relatives of the promoters of plaintiffs 1 to 3.

8\. Defendants were incorporated on 8-9-1987 under the name and style of
Bansisons Beverages Private Limited which was subsequently on or before
19-5-1992 changed to the present name, namely, ESSEL Tea Exports Limited
(hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the "impugned name").

9\. Some time in September 1993, the plaintiffs came to know about this fact
of change of name by the defendants from Bansisons Beverages Private Limited
to Essels Tea Exports Limited. The circumstances under which they carne to
know are indicated by congratulatory letters addressed by some of the friends
to the plaintiffs. The letter dated 10-9-1993 was addressed by one Ashok
Sanghvi to the Chairman of ESSEL group of industries (plaintiffs). This letter
indicates that the Defendants have come out with a public Issue of 44,30,000
equity shares of Rs. 10/- each of Essel Tea Exports Limited. This letter was
followed by another letter dated 18-9-1993 addressed by one Pujit Aggarwal to
the Chairman of Essel Group of Companies (plaintiffs) by which Shri Aggarwal
applied for allotment of 1000 shares of Essel Tea Exports Ltd. from the
promoters quota. Third letter is dated 20-9-1993 addressed by Shri Vasant
Parekh to the Chairman of Essel Group of Companies also seeking allotment of
500 equity shares out of promoters' quota. In view of the three letters and
also in view of the application form inviting subscription from the Indian
Public, the above suit was filed on 8th October 1993.

10\. The cause of action for filing the above suit is spelt out in paragraph 8
of the plaint in which the plaintiffs have stated that they enjoy an excellent
and wide reputation as manufacturers and dealers in the various products and
services provided by them as aforesaid and that the plaintiffs have been in
existence for a very long time and by excellent quality of the products and
services of the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs have acquired tremendous reputation
and popularity for their business, services and products. According to the
plaintiffs the three letters "ESS" being part of the word" ESSEL" appearing in
the name of the plaintiffs" various companies, is the first essential
character of the name Subhash Chandra the Chairman of the plaintiffs various
companies and the word "EL" being part of the word "ESSEL" appearing in the
name of the plaintiffs' various companies is the first character of the name
Laxmi Narayan Goel, the brother of Subhash Chandra and a Director of various
plaintiffs' companies. Accordingly, the word "ESSEL", according to the
plaintiffs forms dominant and prominent part of the plaintiffs' corporate name
and trading style, has come to be associated by the members of the trade and
by the public in India and also abroad, exclusively with the plaintiffs. The
word "ESSEL" forms part of and is an essential, dominant part of the
plaintiffs' trade and business name and style and that the trading style with
the word "ESSEL" is associated exclusively with the plaintiffs' Group of
Companies. Because of the popular amusement park "ESSEL WORLD" also, the
members of the trade and the public associate with the word "ESSEL"
exclusively with the plaintiffs and with the various companies belong to ESSEL
group. In the plaint the plaintiffs have also annexed a statement showing the
turn over of the ESSEL group of industries for the last five years (see
paragraph 10 of the plaint). It is the case of the plaintiffs that by reason
of all the aforesaid, the word, trading style and mark ESSEL has come to be
associated exclusively with the plaintiffs and ESSEL Group of Companies and
any reference to the word ESSEL" denotes and connotes reference to the
plaintiffs and the ESSEL Group of Concerns alone. There is a very close
interconnection and or association among the plaintiffs inter se. As stated
hereinabove, one of the plaintiffs' Group of Companies are in the business of
exporting tea. In the above circumstances, the plaintiffs have filed the suit
seeking the above prayers.

11\. By way of Affidavit in reply to the Notice of Motion, it is contended on
behalf of the defendants vide Clause (ii) that in or about 1985 many persons
in the State of West Bengal commenced business of tea plantations. The
defendants started acquiring land suitable for starting tea plantation and
from time to time they acquired 75 Hectares of land with the intention of
setting up tea plantation and making tea for export. According to the
Affidavit in reply filed by Chairman of the defendants- Company Samarlal
Agarwalla, in order to ensure that the name of the defendants- Company
Veflects the Company's business, the Directors of the defendants i.e. Samarlal
Agarwalla and his brother thought of changing the name from Bensisons Tea
Exports Ltd. to Essels Tea Exports Ltd. and they thought of the word "ESSEL"
because it was derived from the name of the Chairman of the defendants Shri
Samarlal Agarwalla. According to the said affidavit, the letter "ESS" part of
the word "Essel" appearing in the name of the defendants is the first
character of the names" while the word "El" being part of the word "Essels" is
the first character of the word "Lal" meaning thereby "Satnar Lal's".
Accordingly it is the case of the defendants that the word "Essels" has been
adopted in 1985 honestly, bonafide, without notice or knowledge of the fact
that the said word "Essel" is being used by any person other than the
defendants as part of their corporate name and style or as a trade mark.

12\. In the case of Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. v. Kirloskar Proprietary
Ltd., , Junjhunuwala, J., (as he then was) has considered the principles of
law in passing off actions: In that matter, appeals came to be filed by
Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. the original defendants against the Order
dated 14-6-1994 passed by the III Additional District Judge, Pune in
respondents' application under Order XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 lor grant of interim injunction in Civil Suit filed by the
respondents/ plaintiffs in the Court of District Judge, Pune. The plaintiffs
were Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd. It was the case of the plaintiffs-Kirloskar
Proprietary Ltd. that the plaintiffs are a Company duly incorporated under the
Companies Act and that each of them belong to well-known "Kirloskar Group of
Companies". The names of Group of Companies are also given in the said
judgment. There were about 27 Companies belonging to Kirloskar Group of
Companies. It was the case of the plaintilfs that the word " Kirloskar' forms
part of the corporate name of each of the plaintiffs 'Group of companies. It
was the plaintiffs' case that one Laxmanrao Kashinath Kirloskar the founder of
the 'Kirloskar Group of Companies", commenced business of bicycle repairing in
1888 along with his brother Ramuanna at Belgaum. In the year 1910, they
shifted to Kundal of which name later on changed to Kirloskarwadi due to
activities of Kirloskar Group of Companies". In the year 1920, the Kirloskar
brothers converted their Private Company into a Public Limited Company and in
the course of time, they expanded business and incorporated various Companies
and, accordingly, the word "Kirloskar" was adopted as trade mark and has been
extensively used by various Companies of Kirloskar Group and accordingly the
word 'Kirloskar' became part of the corporate name of the "Kirloskar Group of
Companies" which connotes the distinctiveness, reputation, quality and
goodwill acquired over long period of time. The word "Kirloskar", according to
the plaintiffs was an important part of the corporate name of the plaintiffs
and other Companies belonging to "Kirloskar Group of Companies".

In that matter, as far as defendants were concerned, between June 1983 and
August 1985, defendant No. 2 was the President of plaintiffs No. 3 Company
which was belonging to "Kirloskar Group" and during that time a vigorous
campaign for image building of the Kirloskar Group of Companies" was also
carried out. On 28-5-1992, the plaintiff No. 2 received letter from certain
customers informing that Kirloskar Holdings Pvt. Ltd. was proposing to get a
logo mark registered in respect of the parts and components of internal
combustion engines and engine tools. On further inquiry, it was revealed to
the plaintiffs that the defendants were incorporated on 12-3-1991 and that
defendant No. 2 was the Promoter, it was also revealed that Kirloskar
Transport Pvt. Ltd. was incorporated on 22-1-1991 and the 2nd defendant was a
Promoter thereof. On 3-8-1992, the plaintiffs addressed a letter pointing out
that the use of the word "Kirloskar" in the corporate name of Kirloskar Diesel
Recon Pvt. Ltd. would result in deception and it was further pointed out that
the action of Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. in each of the appeals amounted
to passing off the goods of the defendants and business of the Defendants as
that of the plaintiffs even though none of the defendants had any connection
with the "Kirloskar Group of Companies". Accordingly, each of the defendants
were called upon to forthwith cease and desist from using the word/name
"Kirloskar" as part of its trade name. However, it was contended by the
defendants that they were entitled to use the word/name "Kirloskar" as part of
the corporate names and they refused to desist from using the word/name
Kirloskar" as part of corporate names and, in the circumstances, the suit came
to be filed to restraining Kirloskar Diesel 'Recon Pvt. Ltd. from using the
word "Kirloskar" as part of its corporate names and of trading style so as' to
pass off or enable others to pass off the goods of the defendants or business
of that of Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd. In some way connected with "Kirloskar
Group of Companies".

13\. In the above cited case, one of the points taken up by Kirloskar Diesel
Recon Pvt. Ltd. was that though there were 27 Companies who have used the name
"Kirloskar" as part of the corporate name, many of such Companies are not the
members of the so-called "Kirloskar Group of Companies" and that there was no
concept of "Kirloskar Group of Companies" and that the name of the Kirloskar
did not form an important part of the corporate name of the plaintiffs and of
the "Kirloskar Group of Companies. It was contended that the word "Kirloskar"
was merely a surname and by virtue of sections 9 and 34 of the Act the persons
having the surname "Kirloskar" were entitled to adopt and use it as their
trade mark and or trade name and as such the defendants had a right to use it
because the work "Kirloskar' did not connote any distinctiveness, reputation,
quality or goodwill alleged to have been acquired by the plaintiffs over last
several years. One of the main contentions which arose for determination
before the learned Single Judge in the matter of Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt.
Ltd. (supra) was the controversy pertaining to "common field of activity" and
also to the question that if the fields of activities are different and the
goods manufactured by the plaintiffs are different from those manufactured by
the defendants, whether the plaintiffs were entitled to an interim injunction
in passing off action.

14\. In the present case also, one of the points which arises for
determination is the controversy pertaining to common field by activity. It is
the case of the defendants herein that they are in the Tea Export Business
whereas the Group of Companies of the plaintiffs are not in Tea Export
Business. It is also contended that even one of the Companies which is in the
Tea Export Business does not bear the name "ESSEL" and in the circumstances,
the plaintiffs are not entitled to an interim injunction in passing off
action. This argument was also advanced in the case of Kirloskar Diesel Recon.
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and it was rejected by Jhunjhunuwala, J., by observing that
the expression common field of activity is not conclusive for deciding whether
there can be a passing off action although at one point of time the said test
was treated as conclusive. With the passage of time the law on requirement of
common field of activity in a passing of action has radically undergone a
change and, according to the learned Single Judge, there is no requirement for
a common field of activity to found a claim in passing off because the real
question in each of such cases is whether there is, as a result of
misrepresentation, a real likelihood of confusion or deception of the public
and consequent damage to the plaintiff is likely to be caused and if that is
the test then the focus is shifted from the external objective test of making
comparison of activities of parties to the state of mind of public in deciding
whether it will be confused. Applying the test of misrepresentation, the
learned Single Judge Jhunjunuwala, J., observed that the business activity of
the plaintiffs, namely, "Kirloskar Group of Companies" which vary from pin to
piano as borne out from the object clauses of the Memorandum of Association is
likely to create confusion if the defendants business activities are allowed
to be carried out in the name of Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. because in
the case of trading name which has become almost a household word and under
which trading name a variety of activities are undertaken, a passing off can
successfully lie if the defendant has adopted identical or similar trading
name.

14.1. In the case of Bajaj Etectricals Ltd. v. Metals & Allied Products, , the
Division Bench of this Court while granting injunction has observed that it is
always in the interests of fair trading and in the interests of all who may
wish to buy or to sell goods, the law recognises that certain limitations upon
freedom of action are necessary and desirable. In some situations the law had
to resolve what might at first appear to be conflicts between competing right.
In solving the problems which have arisen there has been no need to resort to
any abstract principles but rather, to the straightforward principle that
trading must not only be honest but must not even unintentionally be unfair.

15\. Now applying the test made but by the above two decisions of this Court
to the facts of our case, the letters referred to hereinabove clearly indicate
that the members of the public have been misled by the use of the word "Essel"
in the corporate name of defendants Essel Tea Exports Ltd. Apart from the
letters, issuance of advertisement inviting public to participate in the
issuance of shares and photograph of the advertisement issued by the Directors
of the defendants clearly indicate that the above tests laid down by this
Court are fully satisfied. The facts have been narrated at length by this
Court in earlier paragraphs.

16\. One more fact needs to be mentioned that the plaintiffs have given a
demand notice to the defendants asking them not to use the word "Essel" in the
corporate name. No reply has been given to the said demand notice and even the
explanation given by the Chairman of the defendants for deriving the word
"Essel" is no explanation which is worth indicative of the fact that this word
"Essel" honestly and bona fide adopted by the defendants.

17\. Taking into account all the above facts and circumstances of the case,
the following order is passed:-

ORDER Pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit there will be an
order of injunction in terms of prayers (a) and (b).

Mr. Tulzapurkar the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs has
clarified that the plaintiffs are not pressing prayer (c) of the Notice of
Motion.

Accordingly, Notice of Motion is disposed of with costs.

18\. Ordered accordingly.

