

Allahabad High Court

Maqbul Ahmad And Ors. vs Brijdeo Tewari And Ors. on 13 December, 1929

Equivalent citations: AIR 1930 All 529

Author: Sulaiman

JUDGMENT Sulaiman, J.

1\. This is a defendant's appeal arising out of a suit for recovery of
possession by avoidance of a sale deed of 1913. This deed was executed for a
sum of Rs. 169 by one Mt. Poona in order to pay off a prior mortgage dated 4th
December 1909 executed by her in favour of Mendai, the defendant's father. The
property transferred was what had been inherited by her from her mother. It
was therefore a Hindu woman's limited estate in her possession, and no valid
transfer could have been made without legal necessity. The recital in the
earlier mortgage deed as shown by a certified copy was to the effect that the
money had been borrowed for barkhi, that is the first annual death ceremony of
her mother, Mt. Ram Kali. There was also oral evidence to the same effect. The
present plaintiffs have after the death of Mt. Poona purchased this very
property, viz., one pie share from her sons who became the heirs to the
estate.

2\. The lower appellate Court has distinctly found that the sale deed of 1913
was for legal necessity, inasmuch as it was proved that the money had been
raised to pay off the prior mortgage deed under which money had been borrowed
for the barkhi ceremony of her mother. The learned Judge has pointed out that
according to the prevalent belief it would have been improper for Mt. Poona to
perform the death ceremony of her mother out of her own money or out of the
income of her property, as it is considered a sin for a mother to be benefited
by the income of her daughter, and that it was on account of such a sentiment
that Mt. Poona must have raised money out of the property left by her mother
Mt. Ram Kali to perform the barkhi ceremony of the latter. The performance of
such a ceremony would be a duty on the person who inherits the estate of the
deceased and the expenses could be met out of such property. The original
mortgage deed of 1909 was not produced and apparently there was no definite
proof of its loss. The lower appellate Court, however, thought that the loss
of the original is required to be proved only if the document is being
enforced in a suit and that there is no such requisite if the copy is merely
produced as a piece of evidence. It would be difficult to accept this view of
the law, as under Section 65, Evidence Act, no secondary evidence can be
admitted for any purpose unless it is shown that the original has been lost or
is not procurable. But the learned Judge has based his finding, independently
of the document, on the oral evidence produced by the parties. His finding
therefore must be accepted as a finding of fact. The appeal is accordingly
dismissed but without any order as to costs as no one appears for the
respondent.

