

Supreme Court of India

Dalpat Kumar And Anr. vs Prahlad Singh And Ors. on 16 December, 1991

Equivalent citations: AIR 1993 SC 276 b, JT 1991 (6) SC 502, 1991 (2) SCALE
1431, (1992) 1 SCC 719, 1991 Supp 3 SCR 472

Author: K Ramaswamy

Bench: K Ramaswamy, G Ray

JUDGMENT K. Ramaswamy, J.

1\. Leave granted.

2\. Sri S. K. Jain, on his application, is discharged.

3\. Heard the counsel on either side. This is the fourth round of litigation
relating to the same subject matter. On June 14, 1979 the first appellant
claimed to have entered into an agreement to purchase the residential house
situated in Jaipur for a consideration of Rs. 51,000/-. He laid the suit for
specific performance and the suit was decreed ex parte. On August 10, 1983,
the sale deed was executed through court. On April 28, 1984, the respondent's
wife filed Suit No. 83 of 1984 and also sought for temporary injunction from
dispossession. In May 1984, the Trial Court rejected the application for ad
interim injunction which was confirmed, on appeal, by the High Court on July
14, 1987. Thereafter the suit was got dismissed for non-prosecution. The first
appellant filed Execution Application No. 6/85 in which the respondent filed
five unsuccessful objections. The first was dismissed on March 4, 1987. The
second one on December 4, 1987, which was confirmed on revision by the High
Court on January 20, 1988. The third one on October 4, 1987 and fourth one on
January 17, 1989. Even thereafter 5th objection was filed on May 23, 1989
which was dismissed on October 24, 1989. This was also confirmed by the High
Court in Civil Revision No. 109/90 dated August 7, 1990. The third round of
litigation was started at the behest of his sons in O.S. No. 278/88 claiming
to be the joint family property and for a declaration that the sale does not
bind them and they sought for partition. They also sought for ad interim
injunction which was rejected on July 7, 1988. On appeal, the High Court in
Misc. Appeal No. 177/88 confirmed it by the order dated July 26, 1988. The 4th
round of litigation was started by the respondent in filing the present suit
on December?, 1988 pleading, that the first appellant being his counsel played
fraud on him, in paragraphs 9 and 10, the details of which are not material
for the purpose of this case. He also sought for an interim injunction from
dispossession. In the meanwhile a part of the property, namely, shops were
obtained as symbolical possession by the first appellant. The Trial Court by
order dated November 3, 1990 dismissed the application. On appeal, the High
Court in Misc. Appeals Nos. 498/90 and 501/90 by the impugned order dated
February 26, 1991 allowed the applications and granted ad interim injunction
restraining the appellants from taking possession of the residential portion.

4\. Order 39, Rule 1(c) provides that temporary injunction may be granted
where, in any suit, it is proved by the affidavit or otherwise, that the
defendant threatens to dispossess the plaintiff or otherwise cause injury to
the plaintiff in relation to any property in dispute in the suit, the court
may by order grant a temporary injunction to restrain such act or make such
other order for the purpose of staying and preventing... or dispossession of
the plaintiff or otherwise causing injury to the plaintiff in relation to any
property in dispute in the suit as the court thinks fit until the disposal of
the suit or until further orders. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Law
Commission clause(c) was brought on statute by Section 88(i)(c) of the
Amending Act 104 of 1966 with effect from February 1, 1977. Earlier thereto
there was no express power except the inherent power under Section 151, C.P.C.
to grant ad interim injunction against dispossession. Rule 1 primarily
concerns with the preservation of the property in dispute till legal rights
are adjudicated. Injunction is a judicial process by which a party is required
to do or to refrain from doing any particular act. It is in the nature of
preventive relief to a litigant to prevent future possible injury. In other
words, the court in exercise of the power of granting ad interim injunction is
to preserve the subject matter of the suit in the status quo for the time
being. It is settled law that the grant of injunction is a discretionary
relief. The exercise thereof is subject to the court satisfying that (1) there
is a serious disputed question to be tried in the suit and that an act, on the
facts before the court, there is probability of his being entitled to the
relief asked for by the plaintiff/defendant; (2) the court's interference is
necessary to protect the party from the species of injury. In other words,
irreparable injury or damage would ensue before the legal right would be
established at trial; and (3) that the comparative hardship or mischief or
inconvenience which is likely to occur from withholding the injunction will be
greater than that would be likely to arise from granting it.

5\. Therefore, the burden is on the plaintiff by evidence aliunde by affidavit
or otherwise that there is "a prima facie case" in his favour which needs
adjudication at the trial. The existence of the prima facie right and
infraction of the enjoyment of his property or the right is a condition for
the grant of temporary injunction. Prima facie case is not to be confused with
prima facie title which has to be established, on evidence at the trial. Only
prima facie case is a substantial question raised, bona fide, which needs
investigation and a decision on merits. Satisfaction that there is a prima
facie case by itself is not sufficient to grant injunction. The Court further
has to satisfy that non-interference by the Court would result in "irreparable
injury" to the party seeking relief and that there is no other remedy
available to the party except one to grant injunction and he needs protection
from the consequences of apprehended injury or dispossession. Irreparable
injury, however, does not mean that there must be no physical possibility of
repairing the injury, but means only that the injury must be a material one,
namely one that cannot be adequately compensated by way of damages. The third
condition also is that "the balance of convenience" must be in favour of
granting injunction. The Court while granting or refusing to grant injunction
should exercise sound judicial discretion to find the amount of substantial
mischief or injury which is likely to be caused to the parties, if the
injunction is refused and compare it with that it is likely to be caused to
the other side if the injunction is granted. If on weighing competing
possibilities or probabilities of likelihood of injury and if the Court
considers that pending the suit, the subject-matter should be maintained in
status quo, an injunction would be issued. Thus the Court has to exercise its
sound judicial discretion in granting or refusing the relief of ad interim
injunction pending the suit.

6\. Undoubtedly, in a suit seeking to set aside the decree, the subject-matter
in the earlier suit, though became final, the Court would in an appropriate
case grant ad interim injunction when the party seeks to set aside the decree
on the ground of fraud pleaded in the suit or for want of jurisdiction in the
Court which passed the decree. But the Court would be circumspect before
granting the injunction and look to the conduct of the party, the probable
injuries to either party and whether the plaintiff could be adequately
compensated if injunction is refused. This case demonstrates (we are not
expressing any opinion on the plea of fraud or their relative merits in the
case or the validity of the decree impugned), suffice to state that the
conduct of the respondent militates against the bona fides. At present there
is a sale deed executed by the Court in favour of the first appellant. If
ultimately the respondent succeeds at the trial. They can be adequately
compensated by awarding damages for use and occupation from the date of
dispossession till date of restitution. Repeatedly the Civil Court and the
High Court refused injunction pending proceedings. For any acts of damage, if
attempted to make, to the property, or done, appropriate direction could be
taken in the suit. If any alienation is made it would be subject to doctrine
of lis pendence under Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act. The High
Court without adverting to any of these material circumstances held that
balance of convenience lies in favour of granting injunction with the
following observations, "keeping in mind the history, various facts which have
been brought to my notice, and looking to the balance of convenience and
irreparable loss, I think it will be in the interest of justice to allow these
appeals and grant temporary injunction that the appellants may not be
dispossessed from the suit property". The phrases "prima facie case"; "balance
of convenience" and "irreparable loss" are not rhetoric phrases for
incantation, but words of width and elasticity, to meet myriad situations
presented by man's ingenuity in given facts and circumstances, but always is
hedged with sound exercise of judicial discretion to meet the ends of justice.
The facts are eloquent and speak for themselves. It is well nigh impossible to
find from facts prima facie case and balance of convenience. The respondents
can be adequately compensated on their success.

7\. In our considered view, the High Court committed manifest error of law in
jumping to the above conclusion to allow the appeal., This appeal is,
accordingly, allowed. The! order of the High Court is set aside and that of!
the trial Court is confirmed. It is made clear that any observations made
either by the trial Court or the High Court or of this Court should be taken
to be not relevant at the trial on merits. These are our only prima facie
observations, subject to adduction of evidence and proof at the trial on
merits in the suit. The parties are directed to bear their own costs.

