

Gujarat High Court

Rupa & Co. Ltd. And Anr. vs Dawn Mills Co. Ltd. And Anr. on 16 April, 1998

Equivalent citations: AIR 1998 Guj 247, (1999) 1 GLR 744

Author: R Balia

Bench: R Balia

JUDGMENT R. Balia, J.

1\. This defendants appeal is against the order of the learned City Civil
Judge, Ahmedabad dated 30th December 1997 passed on a Notice of Motion
restraining the defendants appellants by way of temporary injunction from
using the word "DON" henceforth in respect of marketing their hosiery products
as it infringes plaintiffs' Trade Mark 'DAWN Hosiery' till the hearing and
final disposal of the suit.

2\. The facts leading to this appeal are that the plaintiff is a public
limited company and is carrying on business of manufacturing, marketing and
selling hosiery. The word "DAWN" is a main and essential feature of the
plaintiff's trade mark which is registered under Trade Mark Act. The defendant
No. 1 is also a company engaged in the business of manufacturing and marketing
hosiery products. The registered trade mark for marketing its hosiery products
is "RUPA". The plaintiff's trade mark has been registered and in use by it for
over 40 years. The dispute is about use of words 'DON' conjunctively or
disjunctively by defendant No. 1 in respect of some of its hosiery products as
its identify mark whether in conjunction with its registered trade mark "RUPA"
to be read as "RUPA DON" or the word mark "DON" separately used as feature of
identifying the commodity for marketing as one of specific brand of its
hosiery products. The plaintiffs having come to know use of word 'DON' by the
defendant No. 1 company in the field to marketing its hosiery products, gave a
registered notice dated 29-4-1995 stating that use of word mark 'DON' in
respect of their hosiery products by the defendant No. 1 amounts to infringing
their trade mark and asked them to stop the use of the word 'DON'. The
defendants replied by letter dated 25th May, 1995 denying the plaintiffs
claim. In reply, it was also mentioned that the defendant No. 1 has filed the
application for rectification of plaintiff's trade mark in respect of which
infringement has been alleged by the plaintiff. There after, the plaintiff has
filed the present suit on 4th March 1997 for restraining the defendant by way
of perpetual injunction from using in relation to any of hosiery items the
impugned word 'DON' or other marks in any manner so as to infringe the
plaintiff's registered trade mark. Alternatively same relief on the basis of
passing off the defendant No. 1 goods as the plaintiff's goods' was also
claimed. Other reliefs pertaining to the rendering of accounts of profit
earned by defendants by infringing the trade mark and a decree for damages in
the like amount was asked for.

3\. A notice of motion for grant of temporary injunction restraining the
defendants from using word 'DON' in connection with its hosiery products
during the pendency of the suit was also moved.

4\. The defendant's plea was that its products are marked under the brand
'RUPA'. However, in order to identify and distinguish its products of
different character, different names like 'DON' 'Kidline' 'Ribline' etc. are
used along with the mark 'RUPA'. Since 1994 the defendant is manufacturing and
marketing openly its products by bonafidely using mark 'RUPA DON'. It has also
applied for registration under the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958 for brand
name used as 'RUPA DON' and the application is pending before the Registrar of
Trade Marks at Bombay. It is further urged that mark 'RUPA DON' is composite
mark comprising of 'RUPA' representing its own registered trade mark and 'DON'
an imaginary charisming character having no significant relevance to goods in
question and is not deceptively similar to the plaintiff's mark nor is it
likely to cause any confusion so as to result in infringement of its mark. It
was also urged that if the two marks bear no ocular similarity, and phonetic
similarity of words like 'DON' or 'down' it cannot cause any significant
confusion.

5\. The case of the plaintiff on the issue of infringement to trade mark is
that the word 'DON' is phonetically similar to the plaintiffs trade mark
'DOWN' and that the offending word 'DON' when used in other vernacular
language is written in the same way as plaintiffs mark 'DAWN', which is likely
to cause confusion of similarity and identity of two products in question
amongst the buyers and they are likely to be deceived by the use of word mark
'DON' as identifying particular goods of the defendants in the market with the
plaintiffs goods. The defence of the defendant on the merit is that one of the
plaintiffs mark comprise of word 'DAWN' together with rising sun with word
hosiery. It is in the form of a label and the mark as registered under the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, in its entirety constitutes the registered
mark and only a part of it cannot be construed as a mark owned by the
plaintiff so as to make out a case for infringement of its trade mark. It was
also urged that considering the total sales of the RUPA Brand, in the year
1995-96, which amounted to about Rs. 58.7 crores out of which the sales or
turnover of its DON BRAND of goods amounted to about Rs. 2.70 crores only,
goes to show that when defendants on their own has such large turnover and
looking to small ratio which the total sales of its products with offending
mark bears to it, defendants cannot have intention to pass of their goods as
the goods of the plaintiff and action for passing off the goods is not
maintainable. It was also urged that no confusion in the mind of people would
arise at large as word 'DON' is used with 'RUPA' which is the registered trade
mark of the defendants and is quite dissimilar to the mark used by the
plaintiff. In other words, it was urged that word 'RUPA DON', mark used by the
defendant is quite dissimilar to mark 'DAWN' used by the plaintiff.

6\. The trial Court found that the word 'DON' is given prominence repeatedly
in the cartons and packages, labels and in the advertisements which prima
facie amounts to infringement of plaintiffs' mark 'DAWN' visually. It also
found that the word 'DON' used by defendants for merchandising their goods is
phonetically very similar to the mark 'DAWN' owned by the plaintiffs for
merchandising its articles. The plea of delay and latches on part of the
defendants did not find favour with the learned trial Judge. Thus, finding
that defendant has prima facie infringed the registered trade mark of the
plaintiff by using the word 'DON' along with 'RUPA' and that balance of
convenience favours plaintiff and that no irreparable injury would be caused
to the defendants if the interim relief is confirmed to nonuser of the word
DON by the defendants, the interim injunction referred to above was granted in
favour of the plaintiff. To challenge the aforesaid order, the defendants has
preferred this appeal.

7\. Heard learned counsel for the parties.

8\. It was first urged by learned counsel for the defendant-appellants that
delay in filing the suit and seeking relief of injunction ought to be held
against plaintiff disentitling them from relief of temporary injunction as
because of that balance of convenience cannot favour the plaintiff. It was
urged that during the year ending 1996-97, the appellants had total sale of
about Rs. 58.00 crores of which Rs. 2.74 crores accounted from sale of 'DON'
brand of hosiery goods. Injunction, if granted, will affect daily sale of
about Rs. 1.50 lakhs per day. By not filing the suit promptly, the plaintiffs
have allowed the defendants to believe that there is no infringement of
plaintiffs trade mark and increase their trading activity. It was urged that
plaintiffs sent notice about alleged infringement as bar back as in April
1995, which was replied to on 25-5-1995. Yet suit has been filed only on
4-3-1997 after about 21 months. This delay in action according to learned
counsel is fatal to plaintiffs application for temporary injunction. Reliance
was placed on Unjha Formulations Ltd. v. Unjha Pharmacy ((1996) 2 G.L.H. 511),
Paras Traders v. Rajasthan Copy Manufacturing Associates (1996 PTC 229),
Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd. v. Kirloskar Dimensions (P.) Ltd. (AIR 1997 Karnt 1
= 1997(1) Arb. LR 278). The Fair Deal Crop. (P.) Ltd. v. Vijay Pharmaceutical
(1985 PTC 80), State of Maharashtra v. Digambar ((1995) 4 SCC 683), and an
unreported decision of this court in Indico Laboratories P. Ltd. v. Burroughs
Williams (India) Ltd. (Appeal from Order No. 443 of 1992 decided on
7-10-1992).

9\. The question cannot be considered in a pedantic manner, by evolving a
strait jacket formulate to be applied in all cases. Firstly delay or latches,
as a sole ground for referring temporary injunction, has to be discerned from
the principle applicable while exercising discretion under Article 226 of the
Constitution. In the latter case relief itself cannot be refused altogether on
the ground of delay or latches impinging on the conduct of the petitioner,
which is a vital consideration. It cannot be so in the case of a suit to
enforce a statutory remedy within the precincts of statute itself. The
ultimate relief in the case of an infringement action is not a discretionary
one, but once establishing such infringement it is a matter of course. In
Saville Perfumery Ltd. v. June Perfect Ltd. ((1941) 58 RPC 161), Sir Wilfred
Greene M.R. said, noticing that infringing word 'JUNE' was printed in inverted
commas was intended to be used as trade mark by the defendant.

"The statute Law relating to infringement by trade marks is based on the same
fundamental idea as the law relating to passing off. But it differs from that
law in two particulars, namely. (1) ............. (2) the statutory protection
is absolute in the sense that once a mark is shown to offend, the user of it
cannot escape by showing that by something outside the actual mark itself he
has distinguished his goods from those of the registered proprietor.
Accordingly in considering the case of infringement the Court have held,
............., that infringement takes place not merely by exact imitation but
by the use of a mark so nearly resembling the registered mark as to be likely
to receive."

10\. The above principle found its approval in Rustom & Hornby Ltd. v. Z.
Engineering Co. (AIR 1970 SC 1649), the Supreme Court while considering the
distinction between enquiry in an action for passing off and an action for
infringement held (at page 1650) :

"in an action on the trade mark, that is to say in an infringement action, an
injunction would issue as soon as it is proved that the defendant is
improperly using the plaintiff's mark".

11\. In Century Traders v. Roshanlal Duggar & Co. (AIR 1978 Delhi 250), a
Division Bench of the High Court quoting from Draper v. Irist ((1939) All ER
513), opinion of Goddard L.J. held :

"In passing off cases however the true basis of action is that the passing off
by the defendant of his goods as the goods of the plaintiff injures the right
of property in the plaintiff, that right of property being his right to the
goodwill of his business ......."

"This right is to be protected and the balance of convenience is in favour of
the person who has established a prima facie right to property."

12\. In M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. India Stationery Products Co.
(AIR 1990 Delhi 19), B. N. Kirpal, J. (as his Lordship then was) said (at page
29) :

"It would appear to be difficult to accept that relief of temporary injunction
could not be granted because of the delay on the part of plaintiff, even
though the Court feels, at that point of time that ultimately permanent
injunction will have to be granted ........... The defence of laches or
inordinate delay is a defence in equity. In equity both the parties must come
to court with clean hands. An equitable defence can be put by party who has
acted fairly and honestly. A person who is guilty of violative the law or
infringing or usurping somebody else's right cannot claim the continued misuse
of the usurped right."

13\. Rejecting the defendant's contention that for a period of nearly ten year
plaintiff had taken no action therefore he is not entitled to relief. Evershed
M.R. in Electolus v. Electrix ((1953) 71 RPC 23), opined :

"I think upon analysis that Mr. Shelley's argument must, in the end of all,
comes to this that the owner of registered trade mark who for a substantial
period of time has lain by and not asserted his right has lost those rights,
notwithstanding that they are rights conferred upon him by statute. I think so
to hold at any rate in a case where the length of time involved is no greater
than in this case would be to introduce a wholly novel nay, revolutionary
doctrine and I think also that it would be contrary to the principles laid
down by decided case."

14\. Apart from this in the infringement or passing off action there arise a
consideration of public policy while exercising discretion to grant or refuse
temporary injunction. The concept of infringing trade mark is in user of a
mark which is like to deceive or cause confusion. The subject of likely
deception or confusion is un wary buying public. The user of trade mark
results in associating the trade mark with particular goods. The buyer acts on
the reputation which a particular trade mark enjoys in public eye in relation
to particular goods. Thus an injunction is remedy provided in how not only to
protect the registered owner of a mark against invasion of his business by the
user of offending mark but to guard the general buying public from likely
deception or confusion in the goods which he intends to buy and goods which
are likely to be offered to him instead.

15\. In Corn Products v. Shangrila Food Products (AIR 1960 SC 142), it was
expressed (at page 145).

"It seems clear to us that what is necessary is that the reputation should
attach to the trade mark, it should appear that the public associated that
trade mark with certain goods."

16\. In his book "Trade Marks and Unfair Competition, J. Thomas McCarthy
called out five criteria guiding exercise of discretion of the Courts in grant
of preliminary injunction, relying upon the decision in America last of which
is to ask. Is a preliminary injunction necessary to protect third parties. In
this regard while dealing with the protection of third parties he observed
that some courts also consider the necessity of protecting third parties. In
Trade Mark cases third parties means the bying public. If the equities are
closely balanced the right of public not to be deceived or confused may turn
the scales in favour of preliminary injunction.

17\. Hon'ble Kirpal, J. (as his Lordship was then) in Hindustan Pencils Pvt.
Ltd. (supra) after detailed consideration said drawing distinction between
delay and lataches on the one hand and acquiescence on the other (at page 29)
:

"It would appear to me that where there is an honest concurrent user by the
defendant then inordinate delay or laches may defeat the claim of damages or
rendition of accounts but the relief of injunction should not be refused. This
is so because it is the interest of the general public which is the third
party in such cases which has to be kept in mind. In the case of inordinate
delay of laches, as distinguished from an acquiescence, the main prejudice
which may be caused to the defendant is that by reason of the plaintiff not
acting at an earlier point of time the defendant has been able to establish
his business by using the infringing mark. Inordinate delay or laches may be
there because the plaintiff may not be aware of the infringement by the
defendant or the plaintiff may consider such infringement by the defendant as
not being serious enough to hurt the plaintiff's business. Nevertheless, if
the Court comes to conclusion that prejudice is likely to be caused to the
general public who may be misled into buying the goods manufactured by the
defendant thinking them to be the goods of the plaintiff then an injunction
must be issued."

18\. Thus, the Court held that where there is infringement of mark which is
likely to deceive or cause confusion injunction must issue to safeguard public
interest.

19\. There is yet another aspect which cannot be lost sight of, is the nature
of wrong caused due to infringement of a mark, in an action for infringement
or passing off. It relates to dealing in the goods associating with such mark
which due to likelihood of causing deception or confusion, apart from exact
imitation, continuously in market. Such offending activity is continuous and
uninterrupted giving a recurring cause of action to the holder of mark
infringed. The Supreme Court in M/s. Bengal Water Proof Ltd. v. Bombay Water
Proof Manufacturing Co. (AIR 1997 SC 1398 = 1996 (Suppl.) Arb. LR 335),
considering the maintainability of a second suit for infringement when first
suit was dismissed with reference to Order II, Rule 2 of Civil Procedure Code,
and noticing, as in the present case, that the defendants were trading in the
offending goods even upto hearing of the appeal held (at page 1404 of AIR) :

"It is obvious that such infringement of a registered trade mark carried on
from time to time would give a recurring cause of action to the holder of the
trade mark to make a grievance about the same and similarly such impugned
passing off actions also would give a recurring cause of action to the
plaintiff to make a grievance about the same and seek appropriate relief from
the Court. It is now well settled that an action for passing off is a common
law remedy being an action in substance of receit under Law of Torts. Wherever
and whenever fresh deceitful act is committed, the person deceived would
naturally have a fresh cause of action in his favour ........ Similarly
whenever and wherever a person commits breach of a registered trade mark
giving a recurring and fresh cause of action at each time of such infringement
to the party aggrieved."

20\. If that be so, it is difficult to accept that for such recurring cause of
fresh action remedy against future injury be denied because damages relating
to distinct part may be inappropriate to be awarded. The principle strengthen
the view expressed in Hindustan Pencil's (supra) that in such case inordinate
delay may defeat the claim to remote or past damages and accounts but not the
claim to relief to an injunction, both on the ground of protecting the
proprietary right from future damage and the interest of general public
consisting of unwarry buyers in the field of continuous dealing.

21\. Law also appears to be otherwise fairly settled that delay by itself
cannot be ground for refusing to exercise discretion of the trial Court in the
matter of granting temporary injunction. It is just one of consideration in
the total gamut of consideration and unless there is justification for
accusing the plaintiff of culpable delay amounting to acquiescence or
abandonment of right, it cannot disentitle him to relief of injunction. If in
totality of circumstances if the trial Court has exercised its discretion by
reaching conclusions which are reasonably possible, the appellate Court will
not interfere with such exercise of discretion. In N. R. Dongre v. Whirlpool
Corporation ((1996) 5 SCC 714 = 1996(1) Arb. LR 488), the Whirlpool
Corporation has sued the defendants for alleged violation of their mark by
defendants in selling of washing machines by the defendant under the mark
Whirlpool. Trial Court granted temporary injunction in favour of the
plaintiffs which had been affirmed by High Court. The plaintiffs had
registered 'Whirlpool' as their trade mark in 1956-57 which lapsed in 1977.
Fresh application was made only in 1988 by the plaintiff which was pending.
Meanwhile defendants had applied for registration of 'Whirlpool' as their
trade mark on 6-8-1986 which was advertised on 16-10-1988. To this applicant
had filed opposition on 16-1-1989. On 12-8-1992 the registrar dismissed the
opposition and on 30-11-1992 certificate of registration was issued in favour
of the defendant. Plaintiff had preferred appeal on 7-11-1992 which was still
pending. In the aforesaid circumstances plea of delay was raised in the suit
for infringement filed on 4-8-1994. Thus, it was a case where in fact
infringing mark as on the date of suit stood registered in the name of
defendant. Suit has been filed about 5 years after plaintiffs were aware about
defendants design to use their mark and two years after opposition to
registration has filed before the registrar, clearing the deck for the
defendant to use the mark unless injunction was obtained. The trial Court
finding that in the facts of the case user of. 'Whirlpool' mark by the
defendant amounted to infringement had granted the temporary injunction
restraining the defendants from using the mark. The learned single judge did
not consider the delay as obstruction to grant of injunction when it held that
there is no justification to accuse the plaintiff of culpable delay,
acquiescence and laches or abandonment so as to disentitle them form relief of
injunction. The Supreme Court noticed that recently adopting the mark
'WHIRLPOOL' when business of washing machine was carried out earlier in other
name at that stage was supportive of plea of unfair trading activity in an
attempt to obtain economic benefit of the reputation established by the
plaintiff. The plaintiff's conduct in opposing the application of registration
by the plaintiff and filing rectification application was held against the
plea of acquiescence or abandonment and supporting the finding that there was
no culpable delay. By reaffirming that action for 'passing off' is regarded as
action in deceit reiterated the principle governing interference in appeal (at
page 3517 of AIR SCW) :

"An appeal against exercise of discretion is said to be an appeal on
principle. Appellate Court will not reassess the material and seek to reach a
conclusion different from the one reached by Court below if the one reached by
that Court was reasonably possible on the material ......... If the discretion
has been exercised by the trial Court reasonably and in a judicial manner the
fact that appellate Court would have taken a different view may not justify
interference with the trial Court's exercise of discretion."

22\. The Court declined to interfere on principle on the ground of delay only,
when keeping other facts and circumstances in view the Court was of opinion
that conclusion reached by trial Court was reasonably possible on the
material. This was independent of the fact that on merit the Court agreed with
the findings.

23\. Unjha Formulation Ltd. v. Unjha Pharmacy (supra) was a case in which the
respondent firm was engaged in the business of medicinal preparations in the
name of Unjha Pharmacy since 1884. The appellant was registered as a company
in the name of Unjha Formulation Limited with the Registrar of Companies on or
about 2-2-1994, but it was doing the business of manufacturing and marketing
Allopathic, Veterinary and Ayurvedic Medicine, since over a decade in the same
name. The plaintiff had give a notice in 1988 to the defendant to stop using
word 'Unjha', in their name and style of trading which was replied to in 1988
itself. No action whatever was taken since then until filing of the suit for
passing off in February 1996 claim relief that defendant be required to change
his name so as not to include word 'Unjha' in it to which use the plaintiff
has acquired goodwill and defendant is not entitled to use the said word.
Relief for accounts and claim to profits made under the name Unjha was also
made. Suit has been filed after the defendant company has gone for public
issue to gather capital from the market. In notice of motion for interim
injunction the only relief that was claimed was to restrain the defendants
from raising capital by public issue by using the word 'Unjha' in its
corporate name. The Court found with this background the action to be not bona
fide which will appear from following observations :

"It is to be noted that even though the respondents in the suits have pleaded
that the appellant company is not entitled to use the word "Unjha" being the
trade name of the respondent-plaintiff, as far as the prayer made in the
Notice of Motion is concerned, they have prayed for an injunction against the
Public Issue only. In others words, the respondents are permitted the
appellant to continue its trading activities by using the word "Unjha" till
the disposal of the suit. However, for reasons best known, it has objection
against the appellant's Public Issue. This really appears strange and fishy."

"The fact that in the application for Notice of Motion the only relief prayed
for by the respondents is to restrain the appellants' Company from proceeding
further with the Public Issue. This would further go to show that the
respondents are keen to see that the Public Issue is stalled for any reason."

"Mr. Vakil rightly contended that if the period of ten weeks under Section 73
of the Companies Act is allowed to bypass and thereafter if the respondents
withdraw the suits, in that case, the entire exercise will be rendered void
and the purpose of filing the suits by the respondents would be achieved
without even trial thereof. I see quite justification in the apprehension of
Mr. Vakil. As stated above, after the receipt of subscription it is neither
possible nor feasible to change the name of the appellants' Company in the
midstream."

24\. The Court also found the raising funds by Public Issue did not amount to
passing off goods and that defendants' company had already received huge
amount of subscription from investors as the suit has been filed after Public
Issue to decide issue of balance of convenience and irreparable injury in
favour of the defendant.

25\. In the aforesaid circumstances, the Court refused to grant relief of
transferring injunction by also taking into consideration laches on the part
of plaintiff.

26\. The facts of the case speak for themselves to malke it distinguishable.
As discussed above, that in the case of the passing off action or infringement
action mere delay by itself cannot be fatal to claim to relief of temporary
injunction, if prima facie case of infringement is made out, but delay coupled
with conduct of plaintiff, which may lead to inference of acquiescence, or
which is not bona fide or which is contumacious, may be fatal to plaintiff's
claim. That will again depend on facts and circumstances of each case. As
noticed from the report in the passing off action the Court had reached
conclusion that plaintiff has failed to make a prima facie case of 'passing
off the goods' in respect of capital issue. It has also found the conduct of
plaintiff in confining relief for restraining the defendant from using the
offending word 'Unjha' only in connection with 'capital Issue' but not asking
any relief for excluding the same from other trading activity to be fishy. The
decision had not rested on the ground of delay alone or independently. Thus,
the case does not afford a parallel to case in hand.

27\. In Paras Trader's (supra) the defendant has been manufacturing exercise
books with Chetan brand depicting Rana Pratap riding horse in Rajasthan since
1975 under approval from the Government. He has filed a suit under Section 120
of the Trade Marks Act and Section 60 of Copy right Act against plaintiff. To
counter blast that suit the plaintiff had filed the suit in 1992. The Court
found that notwithstanding a registered trade mark in favour of plaintiff to
use word 'Chetan' since 1971, there was no satisfactory evidence of actual
user by the plaintiff and six bills spread over a period of five years between
1987 to 1992 had been produced to prove the actual user. The plaintiffs had in
fact at least come to know of user of their trade mark by the defendant in
1987, yet the suit was filed in 1992. In these circumstances, the plaintiff
was held to be disentitled to temporary injunction because of delay and
laches.

28\. Kirloskar case (supra) does not take the appellant's case any further. It
rather supports the case of respondents. The Court while agreeing that delay
in bringing action may not come in the way of granting injunction, the Court
was not inclined to issue injunction as it did not see any immediate threat of
injury to plaintiffs, as the two rivals field of activity was different. The
ratio of Hindustan Pencils case (supra) laid down by Delhi High Court that :

"No doubt the delay in bringing the action itself may not come in the way of
grating an order of injunction in favour of the plaintiffs as per the decision
reported in AIR 1990 Delhi 19 cited by the counsel for the plaintiffs case. In
the instant case, the plaintiffs and defendants are not engaged in the common
field of activity and there is no material to show that the defendants are
passing off their goods or business representing are passing off their goods
or business representing as that as the goods or business of the plaintiffs
and therefore, that is no immediate threat of causing any damage to the
plaintiffs.

29\. In the Fair Deal Corporation case 1985 PTC 80, the Court found as a fact
a palpably wrong assertion about the date of knowledge about alleged offending
activity that too in the face of fact that plaintiff himself if has not proved
that defendant should not use the mark Vijay Electrolyte but only attack was
on the user of Sachet similar to that of plaintiff. The Court also considered
that goods in question being Medicinal preparation and ordinarily sold on
doctor's prescription, that was little likelihood of confusion on the part of
consumer.

30\. In the case of Indico Laboratories the unreported judgment of this Court
(Appeal from order No. 443 of 1992) though detailed comparative facts are not
discernible, it appears that what weighed with the Court was progressively
increased sale of defendants since last 10 years, tilted the balance of
convenience in favour of defendants for refusing temporary injunction to
plaintiff.

31\. The decision in Digambar's case (supra) does not directly concern the
grant of temporary injunction in infringement or passing off suits but relates
to general principles governing exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction of
superior Courts wherein grant of ultimate relief by very nature of
jurisdiction discretionary and petitioner's own conduct has a vital bearing on
exercise of discretion. It was in that context that the court has observed
that conduct of delay and laches on the part of petitioner disentitled him to
exercise of discretion in his favour.

32\. From the above it will be seen that none of decided cases really render
any assistance to the appellant. Each case depends on its own facts.

33\. In my opinion, on each principle individually or taking compendious view
of principles discussed above plea to deny relief of temporary injunction
solely on the ground of delay and latches in bringing the suit cannot be
sustained.

34\. On the merit of the finding as to prima facie case about the infringement
of mark owned by the plaintiff, two-fold contentions have been raised before
me. Firstly, it was urged that the trade mark under document mark 3/4 consists
of a label. Therefore, while considering the question of infringement of mark
under the document exh. 3/4, it is only visual or ocular similarity is
relevant and phonetic 'similarity' of the word 'DAWN' with 'DON' is not
relevant and in respect of other registered mark under document mark 3/5,
registered mark is word 'DAWN HOSIERY' per se meaning thereby, it is the use
of the words 'DAWN HOSIERY' in totality makes use of the trade mark owned by
the plaintiff. By dissecting it for confining the alleged infringement to the
word 'DAWN' only is not permissible. There is no similarity visually or
phonetic between the 'RUPA DON', the words used by the defendants, while
marketing their commodity and the 'DAWN HOSIERY' marketed by the plaintiffs.
In this connection, it was also urged that symbol of rising sun in the
background of word 'DOWN', is the essential feature of the plaintiff's trade
mark which makes ocular similarity more relevant and as the defendants have
not adopted any such device to have visual similarity with picture of rising
sun, there is no similarity much less deceptive similarity by the use of word
'DON' simpliciter identifying some of the defendants goods with the registered
mark of the plaintiffs.

35\. When a trade mark can be said to be infringed by another trader, the law
appears to be settled that even without using the whole of it, on or in
connection with his goods, if one or more of its essential features are
adopted by the other traders. It may amount to infringement of mark.

36\. The action for infringement of a trade mark is authorised by statute
under Section 29 of (hereinafter called as the Act), which provides as to when
a trade mark can be said to be infringed. It says a registered trade mark is
infringed by a person, who not being the registered proprietor of the trade
mark, or a registered user thereof using by way of permitted use, uses in the
course of trade a mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to the
trade mark in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade mark is
registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
taken as bona fide use as a trade mark. In other words, using of a mark by a
person which is 'deceptively similar' to a registered trade mark owned by
another person as distinct from user of an identical mark also amounts to
infringement of a trade mark.

37\. What is meant by 'deceptively similar' is defined is Section 2(d) of the
Act which postulates that a mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to
another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to
deceive or cause confusion. This definition makes two distinct areas to be
probed to find out whether the impugned mark can be held to be deceptively
similar to one in respect of which infringement is alleged or where it is
likely to deceive another, though it may not actually confuse, but is likely
to cause confusion. The test of considering whether a particular mark is
likely to deceive may vary from the test whether the disputed mark is likely
to cause confusion. The test of considering whether a particular mark is
likely to deceive may vary from the test whether the disputed mark is likely
to cause the use of the mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark.
This provision also goes to show that a user of mark by a person which may be
taken by those persons who are to acquired the goods in question, which is not
a registered trade mark nor intended to be used as a trade mark but still if
in the minds of people, ordinary user of the goods, buying the same are likely
to take the same to be a trade mark because of the manner in which the mark
has been used by a person trading in those goods, if use in that manner is
likely to deceive or cause confusion about the identify of required goods or
articles, still it would amount to infringement of trade mark. In other words,
in considering the question whether a mark used by a person infringes the
registered trade mark held by another, the test is not confined to exact
reproduction of the infringed mark or to actual deceptions or confusion to
exist among its users, but it is enough if the offending mark is deceptively
similar to a degree with the infringed mark to a degree which is likely to
deceive or cause confusion in the minds of buyer. It is even not necessary
that offender may have intended to use, it as a mark, if the manner of use of
a mark impresses in the mind of buyer that the same is being used as mark. It
relates to association of mind of an average buyer with the mark for
identification of goods he wants to buy connecting the same with the
reputation it has acquired with the goods. It in that process of association
of mind, there is likelihood of deception or confusion amongst the two marks,
infringement is said to have taken place by the offending mark.

38\. In substance it can be stated that in determining the question of likely
to deceive or likely to cause confusion, it is necessary to assess the
psychological reaction that mention association which the mark will generate
in the mind of average buyer when he buys the goods under normal circumstances
and conditions in the trade. The area of conflict between the user of two
marks in the case about existing trade mark by user of another marketing is to
be resolved by considering the fair and normal use of both the marks. It is
all the more so where confusion or deception has to be assessed when the marks
are used in relation to the same goods or same description of the goods.
Expression likely to deceive or likely to cause confusion indicate that what
is required to be considered and established while considering whether a
particular mark infringes another mark is only a probability of deception or
confusion and not actual deception or confusion in the minds of the buyers.
Nor does, the definition of deceptively similar or likely to cause confusion
restricted in its scope to the particular type of confusion. If a person may
buy the goods seeing one mark thinking that it is the brand which is in his
mind which in fact is not the case, it may amount to confusion or deception.
So also where a person looking at a mark may buy the goods thinking that it is
coming from the same source as some other goods bearing a similar mark which
he is familiar with. The word 'likely' excludes the necessity of proving the
injury to one or illicit benefit to others, before establishing the case of
deceptive similarity. The test is not whether one man will be injured and the
other man will gain illicit benefit, but whether there will be a confusion in
the mind of public which will lead to confusion in the goods.

39\. Ocular comparison is not necessarily the test to find out infringement
and sound similarity may be decisive where goods of particular class are
associated by name in the market is the principle recognised for long. In
Saxio v. Bovezende ((1866) LR 1 Ch. 192), it was enunciated that : "Actual
physical resemblance of the two marks is not the sole question for
consideration. If the goods of a manufacturer have, from the mark or device he
has used; become known in the market by particular name, the adoption by a
rival trader of the mark which will cause his goods to bear the same name in
the market may be as much as violation of the rights of that manufacturer as
the actual copy of his device.

40\. It was a case where plaintiffs mark containing the device of a crown and
word 'Seixo' and other features used for wine came to be known as 'Crown
Sexio' wine. Defendant sold wine under a mark containing inter alia the device
of a 'crown' the words "Sexio de Cima" and other features. Holding it to be a
violation of plaintiff's mark injunction was granted although the marks when
seen side by side were not similar.

41\. What should be the test in determining whether the similarity between the
two marks are likely to cause deception or confusion in comparison to each
other has been succinctly stated by Parker, J. in Pianotist Application.
(1906) 23 RPC 774 when it said :

"It always is so in cases of this sort where you cannot really test whether a
confusion has arisen, but only have to judge from the general appearance or
sound of the two words whether confusion is likely to arise. With regard to
the law upon the point, it seems to me quite settled and quite clear
........... It may be taken that the law is as follows :

You must take the two words. You must judge them, both by their look and by
their sound. Your must consider the goods to which they are to be applied. You
must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy those
goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding circumstances; and you
must further consider what is likely to happen if each of those trade marks is
used in a normal way as a trade mark for the goods of the respective owners of
the marks. If, considering all those circumstances, you come to the conclusion
that there will be a confusion - that is to say, not necessarily that one man
will be injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but that there will
be a confusion in the goods - then you may refuse the registration, or rather
you must refuse the registration in that case."

42\. The observation came in the wake of an application for registration of
trade mark. But this clearly gives out that the likelihood of causing
confusion may arise not only from the visual or ocular effect of the mark but
by reason of similarity in the sound. The phonetic similarity gains more
important role where the competing marks in respect of which conflict is to be
resolved are words. In ordinary case when the essential feature of a trade
mark is expressed in word or words, phonetic resemblance gains importance and
any physical similarity or dissimilarity in appearance is pushed to the
background. The fact that phonetic resemblance has relevance and the test in
such circumstances as dealt with by Lords Parker quoted above, has found its
approval by the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v. S. N. Basak (AIR 1963
SC 449), and F. Hoffimann-La Roche & Co. Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manners Private Ltd.
(AIR 1970 SC 2062).

43\. It will be apposite to notice the opinion of Lord Radcliffe in De Cordova
v. Vicks Chemical ((1951) 68 RPC 103 (PC)).

44\. This was a case where Vicks Chemical has registered one trade mark
consisting of words 'Vicks Vapo Rub Salve' a device consisting of a triangle
with the words Vicks Chemical Company printed on sides and other subsidiary
words below the triangle and another consisting of single word 'VapoRub' in
Jamaica. These marks were registered with reference to an ointment kind of
which were described to mean by British Pharmaceutical Codex 1934 as 'Vapor
Rubs are preparations of menthol with other volatile substances in a basis of
soft paraffin and are applied on chest for their local action and as account
of their value when inhaled. 'The' Vapour Rubs were referred to as a generic
term. The defendant started marketing the similar ointment under the name
'Karsote Vapour Rub'. In an action for passing off and infringement of trade
mark by V. Chemical, when the matter reached Privy Counsel at the instance of
defendant in respect of first trade mark No. 1952 it was urged that on account
of ocular distinctiveness of two competitive marks there was no infringement.
Lord Radcliffe in his opinion emphasising when the phonetic similarity becomes
important to test the likely causation of deception or confusion holding that
there is an infringement said :

"They have not used the mark itself on the goods that they have said, but a
mark is infringed by another trader if even without using the whole of it upon
or in connection with his goods, he uses one or more of its essential
features. The identification of an essential feature depends partly on the
Court's own judgment and partly on the burden of evidence that is placed
before it. A trade mark is undoubtedly a visual device but it is well
established that the ascertainment of an essential feature is not essential
feature is not to be by ocular test alone. Since words can form part, or
indeed the whole, of a mark, it is impossible to exclude considerations of the
sound or significance of those words. Thus, it has long been accepted that if
a word forming part of a mark has come in trade to be used to identify the
goods of the owner of the mark or part of the mark it is an infringement of
the mark itself to use that word or part of the mark of another trader, for
confusion is likely to result ............... The likelihood of confusion or
deception in such cases in not disproved by placing the two marks side by side
and demonstrating how small is the chance of error in any customer who places
his order for goods with both the marks clearly before him, for orders are not
placed or are often not placed under such condition. It is made useful to
observe that in most persons the eye is not an accurate reader of visual
detail and that marks are remembered rather by general impressions or by some
significant detail than by any photographic recollection of the whole."

45\. Contention of the appellant as to latter mark on the ground that word
'Vapo Rub' is merely description of goods and cannot be registered as trade
mark, the Board opined, 'there is no absolute incompatibility between what is
descriptive and what is distinctive'. It was further opined that though the
word has a descriptive element for it was a compound of two ordinary English
words which were chosen for the purpose of suggesting to reader the leading
characteristics of the substance. 'But the word itself is no description of a
substance except to those persons to whom the term 'Vapour Rub' would be an
intelligible use of words."

46\. The principle in above case was approved by the Supreme Court in K.
Krishna Chetiar's case. The ratio applies to facts of the case in hand as will
be seen in discussion hereinafter.

47\. Where the words are distinctive features of a trade mark, the apex Court
in K. R. Chinna Krishna Chettiar v. Sri Ambal & Co. and another (AIR 1970 SC
146), opined at page 149 :

"The resemblance between the two marks must be considered with reference to
the ear as well as the eye and occular comparison is not always the decisive
test. Therefore, even if there be no visual resemblance between the two marks,
that does not matter when there is a close affinity of sound between the words
which are distinctive features of the two marks."

48\. The Court was considering whether the two marks in question prevailing in
the field of snuff trade can be considered to be deceptively similar. A mark
which came prior in existence was the mark owned by the respondents prior to
the date of application made by the appellant before the Supreme Court
consisted of a lable containing a device of a goddess Sri Ambal seated on a
globe floating on water enclosed in a circular frame with the legend "Sri
Ambal parimala snuff" at the top of the label, and the name and address "Sri
Ambal and Co., Madras at the bottom. Trade mark No. 14691 consists of the
expression "Sri Ambal". The appellant had sought the registration of label
consisting of three panels. The first and the third panels contain in Tamil,
Devnagri, Telugu and Kannada the equivalents of the words "Sri Andal Madras
Snuff." The centre panel contains the picture of goddess Sri Andal and the
legend "Sri Andal." Sri Andal and Sri Ambal are separate divinities. Sri Andal
was a vaishnavite woman saint of Srivilliputur village and was deified because
of her union with Lord Ranganatha. Sri Ambal is the consort of Siva or
Maheshwara. Pointing out these dissimilarities in the appearance the objection
to the registration of Shri Ambal and Co., Madras shown as Trade mark of the
appellant was registered. Laying down the aforesaid ratio, the Court on the
merit stated :

"Now the words "Sri Ambal" form part of trade mark No. 126808 and are the
whole of trade mark No. 146291. There can be no doubt that the word "Ambal" is
an essential feature of the trade marks. The common "Sri" is the subsidiary
part. Of the two words "Ambal" is the more distinctive and fixes itself in the
recollection of an average buyer with imperfect recollection."

49\. Applying the test as aforesaid, the Court came to the conclusion that :

"There is no evidence of actual confusion, but that might be due to the fact
that the appellant's trade is not of long standing. There is no visual
resemblance between the two marks, but ocular comparison is not always the
decisive test. The resemblance between the two marks must be considered with
reference to the ear as well as the eye. There is a close affinity of sound
between 'Ambal' and 'Andal' .......... The distinguishing feature of the
respondents mark is Ambal while that of the appellant's mark is Andal. The two
words are deceptively similar in sound. The name Andal does not cease to
deceptively similar because it is used in conjunction with a pictorial
device."

50\. The principle for considering infringement was also considered by Supreme
Court in Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta (AIR 1963 SC 449), when
question arose in the context of whether use of mark 'Lakshmandhara' is likely
to deceive or cause confusion with trade mark 'Amritdhara' used by plaintiffs
so as to refuse registration to former. Applying Parker L.J.s test in Re
Pianoist's case (23 RPC 774, the Court said :

"For deceptive resemblance, the two important questions are (1) who are the
persons whom the resemblance must be likely to deceive or confuse and (2) What
rules of comparison are to be adopted in judging whether such resemblance
exist.

As to confusion, it is perhaps an appropriate description of mind of a
customer who on seeing a mark think that it differs from the mark on goods
which he has previously bought, but is doubtful whether the impression is not
due to imperfect recollection.

51\. Applying the test to two marks the Court though of the view that the
critical examination of two marks disclosed some dissimilarity, said :

"The question has to be approached from the point of view of an average
intelligent man with imperfect recollection. To such a man the over all
structural, and phonetic similarity of the two names 'Amritdhara' and
Lakshmandhara' is in our opinion likely to deceive or cause confusion
.......... An unwary purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect
recollection would not ........ split the name into its component parts and
consider the etymological meaning thereof or even consider the meaning of
composite words ...... He will go more by similarity of the two names in the
context of widely known medicinal preparation which he wants for his
ailments."

52\. Lord Dening in Peter Knoll Ltd. v. Knoll International Ltd. ((1962) 10
RPC 265), succinctly stated the test to determine the question whether the
offending mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion relates to state of
mind of buyer when he said :

"It is not necessary that it should be intended to deceive or intended to
cause confusion. You do not have to look into the mind of the user to see what
he intended. It is its probable effect on ordinary people which you have to
consider."

53\. The opinion also explains distinction between 'to deceive' and 'cause
confusion' as under :

"Secondly, "to deceive" in one thing. To "cause confusion" is another. The
difference is this :

When you deceive a man, you tell him a lie. You make a false representation to
him and thereby cause him to believe a thing to be true which is false. You
may not do it knowingly, or intentionally, but still you do it, and so you
deceive him. But you may cause confusion without telling him a lie at all, and
without making any false representation to him. You may indeed tell him the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, but still you may cause
confusion in his mind, not by any fault of yours, but because he has not the
knowledge or ability to distinguish it from the other pieces of truth known to
him or because he may not even take the trouble to do so."

Thus, in the field of same goods where word was essential feature of mark the
test of phonetic similarity, which was likely to confuse was applied.

54\. The Court also emphasised that each case must be decided on its own facts
what degree of resemblance is necessary to deceive or cause confusion must in
the nature of things be incapable of definition a priori.

55\. With parity test in the present case will be whether the buyer will go
mere by the similarity of two names ('DAWN' or 'DON') in the context of widely
know hosiery goods which he wants to buy for his use or by identifying the
hosiery goods with reference to visual background of cartons and labels, the
devices on which mark is projected.

56\. The principle has been accepted that phonetic similarity of the essential
or distinctive feature of mark that may cause deception or cause confusion to
an unwary customer is the acceptable test was again reaffirmed by Apex Court
in Durga Dutt v. N. P. Laboratories (AIR 1965 SC 980) :

"The degree of resemblence which is necessary to exist to cause deception not
being capable of definition by lying down objective standards. The persons who
would be deceived are, of course, the purchasers of the goods and it is the
likelihood of their being deceived that is the subject of consideration. The
resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the basic idea represented by the
plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the comparision is for determining whether
the essential features of the plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that
used by the defendant."

57\. The Court also made out clearly that the comparison of similarity between
distinctive or essential feature of the mark for the purpose of enquiry into
alleged infringement is relevant. The Court said :

"In an action for infringement, the plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that
the use of the defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity
between the plaintiff's and the defendant's mark is so close either visuall,
phonetically or otherwise and the Court reaches the conclusion that there is
an imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that the
plaintiff's rights are violated. Expressed in another way, if the essential
features of the trade mark of the plaintiff have been adopted by the
defendant, the fact that the get-up, packing and other writing or marks on the
goods or on the packets in which he offers his goods for sale show marked
difference, or indicate clearly a trade origin different from that of the
registered proprietor of the mark would be immaterial; whereas in the case of
passing off, the defendant may escape liability if he can show that the added
matter is sufficient to distinguish his goods from those of the plaintiff.

*** *** *** *** This has necessarily to be ascertained by a comparison of the
two marks - the degree of resemblance which is necessary to exist to cause
deception not being capable of definition by laying down objective standards.
The persons who would be deceived are, of course, the purchasers of the goods
and it is the likelihood of their being deceived that is the subject of
consideration. The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the basic idea
represented by the plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the comparison is for
determining whether the essential features of the plaintiff's trade mark are
to be found in that used by the defendant."

58\. The principle was reiterated and applied in Parle Products (P.) Ltd. v.
J.P. & Co. Mysore (AIR 1972 SC 1359).

59\. As to what constitutes a distinctive or essential feature to Court
referred to Section 9(1) of the Act of 1958, which can usefully be quoted here
:

Section 9. Requisites for registration in Parts A and B of the register :

(1) A trade mark shall not be registered in Part A of the register unless it
contains or consists of at least one of the following essential particulars
namely;

(a) the name of a company, individual or firm represented in a special or
particular manner;

(b) the signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in his
business;

(c) one or more invented words;

(d) one or more words having no direct reference to the character or quality
of the goods and not being, according to its ordinary signification, a
geographical name or a surname or a personal name or any common abbreviation
thereof or the name of a sect, caste or tribe in India :

(e) any other distinctive mark.

60\. Section 9 in no unmistakable terms tells us that words which directly
refers to character or quality of goods in connection with which they are used
are not the distinctive marks. Ordinarily such words also cannot be treated as
essential feature of the mark taken as a whole.

61\. A classical example of this class of cases is Coca Cola Co. of Canada v.
Pepsi Cola Co. of Canada Ltd. ((1942) 50 RPC 127). In comparing the two marks
it was found that Cola was in common use in Canada for naming the beverages.
The distinguishing features of the mark Coca Cola was Coca and not Cola. For
the same reason the distinguishing feature of make Pepsi Cola was 'Pepsi' and
not Cola. There was no likelihood of confusing Coca with Pepsi. The principle
was approved by Supreme Court in K. Krishna Chettiar's case (supra).

62\. This case aptiy answers the objection that in the present case the mark
registered is 'DAWN HOSIERY' per se or word 'DAWN' with rising sun in the back
ground with 'Hosiery' written below word 'DAWN' in small letters. Word
'Hosiery' being referrable to character of goods dealt with by plaintiff or
for that matter all hosiery products by whomsoever manufactured and dealt with
cannot be considered as distinctive or essential feature.

63\. An average purchaser asking for the goods with plaintiff's mark, applying
the tests of an average intelligent person with imperfect meaning is more
likely to distinguish the good desired by him by the brand name 'DAWN' than by
visual mark of rising sun. Customer is not likely to ask for hosiery goods
with picture of rising sun but is most likely to ask for the goods by brand
name. Thus in my opinion, word 'DAWN' is the essential feature of plaintiff's
both marks in question likely to hang on in the mind of an average person with
imperfect recollection and in the circumstances the phonetic similarity is to
be most important test to be considered while comparing the plaintiff's mark
with offending mark. Applying the test with keeping in mind the persons who
are to be customers, who are scattered all over the country in India, not
necessarily literate or knowing English language keeping the distinction of
spelling and etymological meanings of two words 'DAWN' and 'DON' in mind, and
is more likely to identify the requisite goods with vernacular inscription on
the packing or advertisements, the vernacular transcription and phonetic sound
are to provide acceptable test for the present purposes to compare the two
marks and find degree of similarity and whether the same is likely to result
in deception or cause confusion. Once this conclusion is reached there is no
serious dispute, rather it was candidly stated by learned counsel for the
appellant that word 'DON' and 'DAWN' sound similar when spoken. Thus, there
cannot be any dispute about phonetic similarity of the two words and the two
words when written in vernacular script, whether Devnagri or Gujarati or
Marathi or other language, will look and read similar. An average purchaser
scattered in distant part of country like India with level of education, nay
literacy, it cannot but be expected that with phonetic similarity he is
further likely to discert with difference in spelling and meaning between word
'DAWN' and 'DON' when both words do not bear reference to character or quality
of goods he is buying but are used only as distinct trade names in the term of
spoken words only.

64\. A faint attempt was made to urge that registered trade mark Exh. 3/5 is
of a lable and it can only be tested on the anvil of occular similarity and
phonetic similarity cannot be of any avail. Reference was made to Sunstar
Lubricants Ltd. v. Federal Chemical Industries (1997 PTC (17) 64 = 1997(1)
Arb. LR 337), Amar Singh Chawlwala v. Shree Wardhman Rice and General Mills
(1996(16) PTC 196 = 1996 (Suppl.) Arb. LR 183), Application by Thomas A Smith
Ltd. to Registrar of Trade Mark, 1913 RPC 363 and Kirloskar Proprietory Ltd.
v. Kirloskar Dimensions (P.) Ltd. (supra).

65\. The contention does not appear to be well founded on principle. As has
been discussed hereinabove, the essence of a mark giving rise to infringement
action is comparison of two marks concerned keeping in view the essential
feature of the mark. Section 2(1)(f) speaks that a mark includes a device,
brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter or numeral or any
combination thereof. It does not say that various forms of marks envisaged are
to be treated on different anvil. On the contrary it envisages combination of
one or two of device. Label or other designs are only vehicle of manifesting
the mark. Label, or packets etc., are at best devices of projecting the mark.
Any mark will obviously be put in format on some device. Words simply, or in
the form of a slogan or sentence used as mark will find place on some device
like label, sachet, cartons only. Section 2(1)(d) defines 'trade mark' to mean
a mark used or proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of
indicating or so as to indicate a connection between the goods and some
persons having the right either as proprietor or registered user to use that
mark. These two definitions leave no room for doubt that the fact that trade
mark indicating connection between the goods as its user is projected through
any device, it makes no difference while considering the question whether
particular user of a mark infringes right of other to use his mark. What is
relevant is what is the essential feature of the mark that connects the goods,
with its rightful user, in the mind of buyer with imperfect recollections. If
this is the design, visual similarity may result in infringing, if the
reputation of goods conecting them with its origin is built around word mark,
phonetic test may be of more relevance. Its phonetic resemblance will be of
greater relevance when the goods have acquired reputation with reference to
word used for its distinctions, whether used on lable or other device. Else
phonetic similarity could not be a relevant consideration inasmuch as spoken
word in audible form will not be considered as mark. Mark will ordinarily
refer to visual presentation through some device projecting its phonetic it.
Phonetic similarity becomes relevant when words used in such device acquire
the distinct character of the mark providing reputation to goods to be
identified or associated with such word. Secondly, in considering similarity
between the two marks to find whether it is deceptively similar to the mark as
a whole in its essential feature has to be kept in consideration.

66\. In Sunstar Lubricants case (supra) the comparison was between plaintiffs
mark 'Golden Cruise-1200' and defendants mark 'Sun Cruiser 2001'. The
commodity in both case was automobile lubricants. As in Cola' case, the Court
found that in trade circle word 'crusier' came to be associated with character
of goods i.e., automobile lubricants and chemicals and had no such
significance. The first name provides essential feature and distinctive mark
of the goods providing it the reputation denoting its origin. There being no
likelihood of deception or confusion between the two words Sun and Golden, no
infringement was found. The test was not the dissimilarity of packet or label.

67\. Likewise in Amar Singh Chawbwala's case, (supra) the commodity in respect
of which both the parties were using their respective marks was rice. The
marks in comparison were plaintiff's trade mark 'GOLDEN QILLA' and defendant
mark 'NEELA QILLA'. This case was also within the principle enunciated in
Cola's case referred to above. 'QILLA' was the word that had come to be
associated with 'Rice' the commodity generally and the 'Golden', 'Lal',
'Neela' were the different and distinctive mark associated with marketing the
rice denoting the origin of goods associated with its reputation. Thus, the
question of dissimilarity rested on principle of essential feature and not on
the basis of the device that has used as a mark viz., label or word.

68\. In the Application by Thomas A. Smith Ltd. (1913 RPC 363), the comparison
was between two words 'LIMIT' and 'SUMMIT'. Objection to register word 'LIMIT'
as registered mark. The case related to goods where customers were English
people as the case had arisen in England in respect of goods to be marketed
there. The Court rejected the objection in following words :

"The words in question "LIMIT" and "SUMMIT" are words in common use and each
of them conveys a perfectly definite idea, and the only connections between
them, that I can see, is that one refers to the extreme of height, and the
other refers to the extreme of breadth, and undoubtedly, in the vulgar
colloquialism of the day of word 'LIMIT" has a secondary meaning attached to
it which may convey the idea of the extreme of excellence, or the extreme of
the reverse. I do not think that so far as the meaning of the words is
concerned, a reference to the one would in the least leave such an impression
in the mind of the reader as to make him mistake the other for it. Looking at
the marks I do not think that there is any possibility of anybody being
deceived. That nobody will ever make a mistake is more than I am prepared to
say, but if there is a mistake, I think it will be made by some person so
foolish, or so unobservant, as in that respect to be without the pale of the
protection of the law."

69\. Obviously, words 'LIMIT' and 'SUMMIT' would not phonetically or otherwise
cause deception or confusion in the minds of an Englishman with average
intelligence with imperfect memory. The case did not rest on any such
distinction between the device in which the mark was depicted viz., Label or
carton or advertisement.

70\. The appellants reliance on Kirloskar's case (supra) is also misplaced. It
was a case where plaintiffs and defendants were not engaged in common field of
activity. There was no immediate threat of causing any damage to plaintiff's
interest. The dispute related not primarily to offending trade mark, but user
or Kirloskar as the part of Corporate name, and suit had been filed after
company had already been incorporated. In these circumstances, suit filed
after notice of incorporation was held to conclusions independently reached
that neither balance of convenience favoured the plaintiff nor it would cause
irreparable injury to it if injunction prayed for is not granted. Primary
factor which weighed was that field of activities of two companies, using the
corporate name was entirely different.

71\. From the above discussion, in the light of decided cases, it can be
broadly stated that in an action for infringement of passing off, that crux of
enquiry is whether mark used by defendant on comparison is deceptively similar
to that of plaintiff which is likely to deceive or cause confusion amongst its
buyers. The similarity which can cause infringement may be ocular as well as
phonetic similarity on comparison of two marks, depending upon the essential
feature of the marks in question. Comparison has to be concerning essential
feature of the marks and not with each and every detail of each mark to find
exact or near exact reproduction. The essential feature of a mark is one by
which an average person with imperfect recorrection remembers it rather by
general impression or by some significant detail than by any photogenic
recollection of the while in visual detail. Test of such enquiry being in the
state of mind of an average buyer of the goods, it is equally important to
consider the class of persons who are likely to buy the goods bearing the
mark, back ground from which they come, leval of their education and degree of
care they are likely to exercise in purchasing goods. What degree of
resemblance is necessary and in which field, visual or sound, is from the very
nature of things a matter incapable of a definition a priori. Each case must
depend on its own facts and on the satisfaction of Court on totality of
evidence where words or group of words are considered essential feature of the
mark, than instead of its visual detail, resemblance in sound or phonetic
similarity will be of prime relevance.

72\. For determining the question of similarity between two marks and
likelihood of deception or confusion arising from their use, following factors
may be considered, as succintly stated by Delhi High Court in Essco v. Mascot
(AIR 1982 Delhi 308) :

(1) the nature of the marks, i.e., whether they are words, coined or
descriptive or non-descriptive, surname or geographical name, device, letters
or numerals or a combination of one or more of the above;

(2) the degree of resemblance between the marks phonetic, visual as well as
similarity in idea;

(3) the nature of goods in respect of which they are used or likely to be used
as trade marks;

(4) the similarity in the nature, character and purpose of the goods of the
rival traders;

(5) the class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods bearing the marks,
their level of education and intelligence and the degree of care they are
likely to exercise in purchasing the goods;

(6) the mode of purchase of the goods or of placing orders for the goods; and
(7) any other surrounding circumstances.

73\. These are by no means exhaustive enumerations of considerations. As
noticed above, it is impossible to lay down a precise and universal test for
resolving the question. It must depend on the facts of each case. The court is
guided by general principles emerging from earlier precedents, which provide
broadly the line of enquiry to be pursued.

74\. Coming to the facts of the case at hand, it may be recapitulated that
plaintiffs are owner of registered trade mark in the form of label depicting
figure of sun at dawn with prominently displayed word 'DAWN' and subsidiary
word hosiery beneath DAWN as well as words 'DAWN HOSIERY' per se since last
over 40 years and are marketing their products under that name and in the
circumstances it can well be said that word 'DAWN' which is not directly
referable to the character or quality of goods, corresponds to essential
requisite to require registration under Section 9(1)(d) of the Act of 1958 and
has acquired a reputation associated with the hosiery goods manufactured by
the plaintiff. So also defendants are manufacturing and trading in the same
field of hosiery for over 25 years now under his own registered trade name
RUPA. Yet prior to 1994, they did not think of adopting word 'DON',
phonetically very similar to plaintiffs mark 'DAWN' and when written in
vernacular language offering no dissimilarity as far as the identity of word
mark is concerned. There is no explanation as to what promoted the defendants
to adopt word 'DON' having similarity to plaintiff's mark with reference to
their own hoisery articles, which hitherto is traded by them in other names.
In fact plea of likelihood of cusing confusion due to user of this name is
supported by the fact that defendant has taken the stance that they have in
fact moved for rectification application to remove the mark 'DAWN', from
register of trade marks, which is pending, though the plaintiffs assert that
they have not yet received even the notice of such application. The admitted
fact that defendants are continuously trading with the offending mark causing
uninterrupted injury giving fresh cause of action to plaintiff to complain of
his grievance. Except for the fact of alleged in-action on the part of
plaintiff since May 1995 in not filing suit until March, 1997 there is no
suggestion of any culpable delay or acquiescence on the part of plaintiffs to
raise it to level of abandonment, either in pleading or in affidavit.

75\. In Karly's words 'mere' failure to sue without some positive act of
encouragement is not general enough to give a defence. A defendant who
infringe knowing of the plaintiffs mark can hardly complain if he is later
sued upon it. A defence of estoppel by acquiescence is to be distinguished
from defence that by delay the mark has become publici juris."

76\. The fact that in reply to very first notice the defendant held out that
he has taken proceedings for rectification for removing the mark 'DAWN'
registered in favour of plaintiff from the registrar of trade marks at least
does go to show that defendants knew that use of word 'DON' by it is likely to
cause confusion in the minds of prospective buyers with plaintiffs registered
mark 'DAWN' so as to cause infringement of trade mark unless the same is
removed from register and it was not a case where be bona fide believed that
no infringement is likely to cause by the use of word 'DON' by him.

77\. It is also noticed from the sample of offending hosiery products and
cartons in which the same are offered to buyers by the defendants shown to the
Court, that on labels attached to it word 'DON' is shown in prominence rather
than its registered trade mark 'RUPA'. So also, on the carton slogan
"xZsxjoBxNuU" the word "xNuU" in vernacular script is shown prominently within
inverted comas. The advertisement of this particular class of goods also gives
prominence to word "xNuU" in vernacular script. Thus, the manner in which
defendant is projecting its product in the market leaves little room of doubt
in the mind of buyers that the goods offered to him are of 'DON' or "DAWN"
mark. Notwithstanding that there is quite dissimilarity in the visual
background of the packing carton, one cannot say with confidence that a buyer
of average intelligence with imperfect recollection is not likely to be
confused by the manner in which the mark of defendant is projected to treat it
as the trade mark under which the goods are being sold and confusion between
the two marks is likely to prevail in his mind. Particularly, keeping in mind
that goods in question are hosiery products like banyans and underwear of
daily use used by thousands of persons from common milieu scattered all over
the country in far flung areas, with level of common education and acquintance
with English language, the likelihood of average buyer discerning differences
is spelling of 'DON' and 'DAWN' and difference between their etymological
meaning is little, as was the case in an English Court in the application.
Thomas A Smithy Ltd. (supra). He is more likely to relate the goods by name
"DAWN" than by pictorial presentation on the package. The very fact that both
the plaintiff and defendant have registered words 'DAWN' and 'RUPA'
respectively as their trade marks in connection with conveying on their trade
of hosiery further strengthen the view that goods are identified by name of
the brand and not by pictorial background of package or label or the device on
which the brand mark is projected. With all these material on record, the
conclusion of trial court that the use of word 'DON' by defendant prima facie
infringes plaintiff's registered mark in question, is a reasonable conclusion.

78\. It will be apt to refer the following observation of the Supreme Court in
Corn Products v. Shangrila Food Products (supra), while considering the
phonetic similarity between words 'Glucovita' and 'Gluvita'; it is observed
that at page 147 :

"It is well known that the question whether the two marks are likely to give
rise to confusion or not is a question of first impression. It is for the
court to decide that question English cases proceeding on the English way of
pronouncing an English word by Englishmen, which it may be stated is not
always the same, may not be of much assistance in our country in deciding
questions of phonetic similarity. It cannot be overlooked that the word is an
English word which to the mass of the India people is a foreign word ........
Apart from the syllable 'co' in the appellant's mark, the two marks are
identical. That syllable is not in our opinion such as would enable the buyers
in our country to distinguish the one mark from the other."

79\. The phonetic similarity test must be keeping in view the person who are
concerned with was against emphasised by the Court in Amritdhara Pharmacy v.
Satya Deo Gupta (supra), that at page 453;

"Where the trade relates to goods largely sold to illiterate or badly educated
persons, it is no answer to say that a person educated in the Hindu language
would go by the etymological or ideological meaning and see the difference
between 'current of nectar' and 'current of Lakshman'. 'Current of Lakshman'
in a literate sense has no meaning, to give it meaning one must further make
the inference that the 'current or steam' is as pure and strong as Lakshman
Lakshman of the Ramayana. An ordinary Indian villager or towns man will
perhaps know Lakshman, the story of the Ramayana being familiar to him, but we
doubt if he would etymologise to the extent of seeing the so-called
ideological difference between 'Amritdhara' and 'Lakshmandhara'. He would go
more by the similarity of the two names in the context of the widely known
medicinal preparation which he wants for his ailments."

The assertions that by injunction the defendants sale of DON' brand of hosiery
is likely to be affected to the tune of Rs. 1.50 lacs per day also suggest
that defendant is intending to take benefit of buyers support who have
associated that hosiery goods to be purchased by them with 'DAWN' name,
notwithstanding that it claims to have its own good will with the name of
RUPA. In the former, it is a clear case of lack of bona fide. In the latter
case, even if the defendant is restrained from using the word 'DON', he is not
likely to suffer any injury as it was suggested by learned counsel for the
defendant himself that they will have only to place some sticker on the
cartons for blocking the word 'DON' appearing thereon and to replace the
labels only on the finished goods before offering to public in their own name
'RUPA' or some other name not offending the plaintiffs mark to which
plaintiffs too does not have any objection. This was the course suggested by
apex Court in Whirpool's case too. When according to defendants, they have a
turnover of over 58 crores of which share of goods with 'DON' make is only
about 2.25 crore, the demand to use of word 'DON' cannot affect the business
of defendant on their own goodwill adversely.

80\. Thus in totality of circumstances plea of delay in isolation to deny the
relief of temporary injunction cannot be accepted. So also temporary
injunction has been granted by the trial Court in reasonable exercise of its
discretion on materials before it. Hence, the order does not call for
interference in appeal, even if the Court were to come to different conclusion
on merit, though on merit also as seen above this court agrees with the trial
Court finding.

81\. Coming thus far, it was stated by Mr. A. C. Gandhi, learned counsel for
the appellant-defendant that defendant shall not use the word 'DON' in any of
its products or cartons in which they are packed or in any advertisement
independently either in English or any vernacular language until disposal of
the suit. However, he may be permitted to use word 'DON' in company with
'RUPA' without prominence to either of it on its product to read as 'RUPA DON'
until decision of the suit, hearing of which may be expedited.

82\. Mr. Shelat, appearing for the respondent plaintiff had urged that
permitting the defendant to use the word 'DON' in any manner at this stage
would continue to cause confusion in the market and may give wrong signals for
future adjudication. Therefore, any modification in the trial Court's order
will not be justified. However, he had no objection to trial of the suit being
expedited. In that connection, it was stated by him that the plaintiff does
not wish to lead any oral evidence so far the question of infringement is
concerned. However, the evidence, if any, required for establishing for
passing of action and damages may be required to be led for which the
plaintiff would abide by any time schedule fixed by the Court. In response,
Mr. Gandhi too stated that defendant also would not be leading any oral
evidence in respect of the infringement action but he would lead the evidence
only in rebuttal in respect of which the plaintiff leads evidence as aforesaid
without prolonging the proceedings before the trial court, within the time
frame fixed by the Court.

83\. Having considered the request of the parties, in the light of discussion
made above, I am of the opinion that since I have come to the conclusion that
the temporary injunction has been granted by the trial Court in reasonable
exercise of its discretion on the materials before it, and to that conclusion,
I have also agreed on merits, and keeping in view the limitation of the
appellate jurisdiction, as pointed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Whirlpool's
case (supra), I am not inclined to make any modification in the order passed
by the trial Court at this stage without expressing any opinion on the
question whether the user of the word 'RUPA-DON' as suggested by the
defendants at this stage in future would amount to infringement or not, except
to that in the circumstances of this pending litigation, if such permission is
granted, the apprehension of the plaintiff that it is likely to cause
confusion and give wrong signals is justified.

84\. However, the prayer for expeditions trial of the suit appears to be
reasonable.

85\. In view of the statement made about the confining the precincts of
evidence to be led before the trial Court, the suit itself shall be put on the
Board of hearing of the trial Court in the month of July 1998. The evidence,
documentary or oral, whatever, shall be produced by the plaintiff, as far as
possible, by 30th October, 1998 and the evidence by the defendants in
rebuttal, if any, shall be produced within two months thereafter by 31st
December, 1998. The trial should be completed by the Court as far as possible
by 3 1st January, 1999.

86\. As a result, the appeal fails and the same is dismissed with costs
subject to the aforesaid directions.

87\. Appeal dismissed.

*-*-*-*-* 

