

Calcutta High Court

Allergan Inc vs Milment Oftho Industries And Ors. on 6 November, 1997

Equivalent citations: (1997) 2 CALLT 92 HC

Author: R Pal

Bench: R Pal, D K Jain

JUDGMENT Ruma Pal, J.

1\. The appellant, Allergan Inc, is a company which manufacturers
Pharmaceutical products in several countries. It does not carry on any
business in India. The first respondent is a company which carries on business
of manufacturing pharmaceutical products in Indian. The appellant seeks to
restrain the respondents from using the mark "OCUFLOX" in respect of a
medicinal preparation manufactured and marketed by the respondents. The issue
to be decided in this appeal is the right of a foreign manufacturer to
restrain use of a mark in India on the basis of prior user of the mark outside
the country.

2\. On the material before this Court there can be no doubt that the appellant
manufactures a pharmaceutical eye care product under the name of OCUFLOX
containing of loxacin and other compounds. Accqrding to the appellant it first
used the mark on 9th Sept, 1992 after which it has marketed the product in
several countries in Europe, Australia, South Africa and South America and has
obtained registration of the mark in Australia, Bolivia, Equador, Mexico,
Peru, South Africa, Canada and the United States of America. It has also
applied for registration of the mark OCUFLOX in several countries including
India. These applications are pending. The appellant has claimed world-wide
sales of 5960034 units of OCUFLOX worth US $ 1,51,000 in 1993; US$ 7,064,472
in 1994; US$ 14,344,010 in 1995 and US $ 10,974,869 for the period January to
August, 1996. It has also claimed that in the USA alone it spent US $ 0.3
million in 1992; US $ 2.6 million in 1993; US$ 2.7 million in 1994; US $ 2.1
million in 1995 and US $ 1.9 million between January and August, 1996 on
advertisements and promotional literature. The appellant has claimed that it
has earned a considerable reputation in all these countries in respect of the
product by extensive sales and wide spread advertisements in medical journals
which are circulated in India.

3\. According to the respondents they knew nothing of the appellant's product.
They say that in 1993 they decided to manufacture and sell a medicinal
preparation containing CIPROFLOXACIN HCL for treatment of the eye. They say
that they coined the word OCUFLOX taking the prefix "OCU" from "OCULAR" and
"FLOX" from "CIPROFLOXACIN" being the basic constituent of the preparation. On
26th July, 1993 they applied for a drug licence to manufacture and market the
product. This was granted by the Commissioner of Food & Drug, Control
Administration on 25th August, 1993. In Sept. 1993, the respondents applied
for registration of the mark "OCUFLOX" in Class V of the Fourth Schedule to
the Act. The application is pending. The respondents claim to have commenced
sale of their product "OCUFLOX" from 30th Oct. 1993 and to have successfully
built up a reputation by such sales. By letter dated 15th Nov. 1994 the
respondent No. 1 wrote to Dr. Eric D. Donnenfeld in the USA enclosing a list
of the respondent No. 1 's products "for trial purpose". Amongst the several
products mentioned one of the products was "OCUFLOX".

4\. The appellant came to know that the respondents were using the mark
OCUFLOX from this letter. The appellant wrote to the respondents on 29th Dec.
1994 objecting to use of the term OCUFLOX. The respondent No. 1 wrote to the
appellant in January, 1995 in reply to the appellant's letter of objection
asking for a discussion in the matter. That a discussion was thereafter held
in June, 1995 is not in dispute. However, the appellant and the respondents
have differed as to what took place during such discussion. It is the
appellant's case that the meeting was inconclusive but that the respondent did
not, to the knowledge of the appellant, use the name OCUFLOX till July, 1996.

5\. In the meanwhile in January, 1995 the appellant filed an application for
registration of the mark OCUFLOX under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act,
1958 in Bombay. In early 1996 the appellant formed a joint venture company,
Allergan India Ltd. with Nicholas Pirmal Ltd., an established Indian
pharmaceutical company to market its products in India.

6\. This suit was filed by the appellant in Dec. 1996 against the respondents
to restrain them from using the mark OCUFLOX on any product. An ex parte ad-
interim order was granted on the application of the appellant on 18th Dec.
1996 restraining the respondents from using the mark OCUFLOX. After the filing
of affidavits and a contested hearing the injunction was vacated on 29th
January, 1997.

7\. The learned single Judge held that the plaintiff in an action for passing
off must be able to establish reputation in the product by long prioruser in
the country. He hold that OCUFLOX had not become distinctive of the product of
the plaintiff in the country. In addition, he held that the plaintiff had
neither marketed nor obtained by licence to market its product in India unlike
the defendant, who had been marketing its product with the mark OCUFLOX in
India being duly licensed by the Drug Controller to do so. The interim order
of injunction was accordingly vacated but the respondents were directed to
maintain separate accounts in respect of sales of their product OCUFLOX and to
furnish copies of such accounts to the appellant once every three months. The
hearing of the suit was also expedited.

8\. Theappellanthas appealed from this order. According to the appellant the
Learned single Judge erroneously held that marketing in this country is
necessary to establish reputation. It was argued on the basis of several
authorities that even without having any business in India, a world wide
reputation would be protected by Court in India against passing off
particularly in the field of medicine. It is argued that the appellant had
been marketing its product OCUFLOX world wide prior to the adoption of the
mark by the respondent and that if protection were not granted by injuncting
the defendant it would be irreparably prejudiced. The appellant has said that
compared to the sales by the appellant of its product OCUFLOX, the sales of
the respondents product (accepting the respondents figures to be correct) were
very small and to secure the respondent No. 1 against any prejudice it may
suffer by being restrained from using the mark OCUFLOX, the appellant was
willing to secure the respondent No. 1 until the hearing of the suit.

9\. The respondents have challenged the initiation of the proceeding on the
ground that the plaint was not verified by a person authorised to do so. On
the merits it has been contended that there was no reliable evidence to show
that the appellant had commenced business under the mark OCUFLOX in 1993 when
the respondent for the first time used the name in connection with its goods.
It is contended that there was nothing to show that in 1993 when the
respondents commenced marketing their products under the mark OCUFLOX, that
the appellant had any goodwill in India in respect of the mark or that the
respondents had any knowledge of the user of the mark OCUFLOX by the
appellant. On the question of balance of convenience it was submitted that the
suil was instituted more than 2 years after the appellant became aware of the
user of the mark OCUFLOX by the respondents during which period the respondent
No. 1 had built up its sales of its product under the mark OCUFLOX. The
respondents have relied on copies of several invoices showing sales of OCUFLOX
and have claimed to have spent Rs. 1,98,9671 between 1993 December, 1996 on
publicity. During this period, the respondents manufactured about 4 lakh units
of OCUFLOX of which about I lakh units were physicians samples. Although the
value of the units manufactured have been given as about Rs. 5 lakhs (out of
which the value of the promotional sample is Rs. 3 lakhs), no figure of the
sales of OCUFLOX effected by the respondents been given. It is submitted by
the respondents that the appellant had never marketed any product by the name
of OCUFLOX in India and was in fact marketing similar products elsewhere in
the world under the mark OCUFLOX.

10\. The respondents' objection to the filing of the suit is without
substance. The plaint has been affirmed by Mr. A.K. Ghosh of Robson, Black &
Ghosh. The appellant has produced copies of a power of attorney dated 29th
December, 1994 in the form prescribed under the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act,
1958 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) authorising inter alia Mr. A. K.
Ghosh of Robson, Black & Ghosh to act on behalf of the appellant in all
proceedings under the Act. In addition a form of authorisation dated 27th
January, 1997 authorising Mr. A. K. Ghosh of Robson, Black & Ghosh not only to
file proceedings under the Act in Court but also ratifying and confirming
actions already taken in this respect was produced. These are adequate to
remove any doubt as to the filing of the suit. Besides, the issue is not one
which can be raised in appeal particularly when the Learned single Judge did
not record any finding in favour of the respondents on the point and no cross
appeal has been preferred therefrom.

11\. An action for passing off, as the word "passing off itself suggests, is
to restrain the defendant from passing off its goods to the public as that of
the plaintiff's. It is an action not only to preserve the reputation of the
plaintiff but also to safeguard the public. The defendant must have sold its
goods in a manner which has deceived or would be likely to deceive the public
into thinking that the defendant's goods are the plaintiffs.

12\. In this case the mark is identical. There is as such no question of
determining whether the mark of the defendant is deceptively similar to, that
of the appellant or not. Both the products arc pharmaceutical preparations but
with different compositions. With identical names there would obviously be
confusion in the mind of the purchasing public between the two. It is not in
dispute that the appellant chose the name first and used it on its product in
several countries around the world, excluding India, when the respondents
entered the market with their product.

13\. Reputation is the connection that the public makes between a particular
product or service and a particular source which may or may not be known. Some
Courts have held that reputation which is built up on the basis of trade
within the country is entitled to protection from passing off. Others Court
have made some concession to the communication explosion and held that if the
plaintiff has a reputation in another country, his right to the mark will be
protected if it is coupled with some actual or proposed business activity
within the country (See Alain Beniardin et Cie v. Pavilion Properties, (1967)
RFC 581; Amway Corporation. v. Eurway Int. Ltd. (1974) RFC 82."Still other
Courts have held that with the increase in international commerce, mass media
communications and the frequency of the foreign travel, political and
geographic boundaries do not stem the exchange of ideas and instant
information. Local business is not an essential ingredient of a passing off
action. However, the reputation must be well established or a known one See :
Panhard et Levassor v. Panhard Motor Co. Ltd., (1901) 18 RPC 405; Sheraton
Corpn. v. Sheraton Motels, (1964) RPC 202; Orkin Exterminating Co. Tnd. v.
Pest Co. of Canada (1985) 5 Canadian Patent Reporter 433; Vitamins L. D.'s
Application for Trademark, 1956 (1) RPC 1. The decisions which reflect the
first and second view have so held for reasons which are partly historic,
partly geographic and partly because reputation was equated with goodwill.
Goodwill has been defined as the benefit derived from reputation. It is not
the reputation required to found a passing off action. The law of passing off
is not trammelled by definitions of goodwill developed in the field of revenue
law [per Hockhart J., Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Aust) P. Ltd., 1993 (23)
IPR 193 231]. It is an asset of a business assessable in terms of money and
transferable (See IRC v. Muller, (1901) AC 217, Trego v. Hunt (1896) AC 7; ITC
v. B.C. Srinivas Shetty, . In my opinion reputation framing the basis of a
passing off action need not be so localised. Whatever the compulsion for the
Courts taking the first or second view in other countries, as far as this
country is concerned, Courts in India prescribe to the third view and have
held that a plaintiff with a reputation which is established internationally
can sue to protect it in this country even if it does not have any business
activity here. In other words reputation of a product may precede its
introduction and may exist without trade in such product in the country. See
N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation, (DB); J. N. Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v. Rose
& Thistle, 1994 PTC 83 (DB); Calvin Klein Inc. v. International Apparels,
(1995) FSR 515 : 1995 IPLR 83; Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Supra) at p. 133.

14\. In this case although the appellant is not carrying on business here,
prima facie it is not a case of the appellant seeking to have a monopoly in
respect of the name OCUFLOX applied to a product with no intention of
exploiting it in this jurisdiction. It is in evidence that the appellant has
together with an Indian Pharmaceutical company set up a joint venture company
for sale of its products in India. It has also applied for registration of the
disputed mark before the registrar of Trade Marks in Bombay. It appears from
the application for registration that the appellant proposes to use the mark
OCUFLOX in India.

15\. I am also prima facie of the view that the appellant is entitled to seek
and be granted protection in respect of the name OCUFLOX to medicinal products
against the respondents. In arriving at this conclusion I have kept in mind
principles which appear from the welter of decisions cited by the parties.

16\. First it is not essential for the plaintiff to prove long user to
establish reputation in a passing off action. It would depend upon the volume
of sales and extent of advertisements. In Stanard v. REAY, 1967 (19) RPC 589
the plaintiff started a business under the name of Mr. Chippy of selling fish
and chips from a van. Three weeks later the defendant also started same
business under the same name. Allowing the application of the plaintiff to
restrain the defendants from using the same name, Buckley J. found on evidence
that even in the 3 short weeks the sale was sufficient to establish a
connection in the mind of the public between the name Mr. Chippy and the
plaintiffs business. Similarly in Consolidated Foods Corporation v. Brandon &
Co., it was said: "A trader acquires a right to property in a distinctive mark
irrespective of length of user or extent of his trade". The question according
to Their Lordships is - who gets there first?

17\. Second, evidence of reputation abroad may spill over in the country
through advertisement. The Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in N. R.
Dongre v. Whirlpool Corpn., (affirmed in appeal said:

"The knowledge and awareness of a trade mark in respect of the goods of a
trader is not necessarily restricted only to the people of the country where
such goods are freely available but the knowledge and awareness of the same
reaches even the shores of those countries where the goods have not been. When
a product is launched and hits the market in one country, the cognizance of
the same is also taken by the people in other countries almost at the same
time by getting acquainted with it through advertisements in newspapers,
magazines, television, video films, cinemas etc; even though there may not be
availability of the product in those countries because of import restrictions
or other factors. In today's world it cannot be said that a product and the
trade mark under which it is sold abroad, does not have a reputation or
goodwill in countries where it is not available. The knowledge and awareness
of it and its critical evaluation and appraisal travels beyond the confines of
the geographical area in which it is sold. This has been made possible by
development of communication systems which transmit and disseminate the
information as soon as it is sent or beamed from one place to another.
Satellite Television is a major contributor of the information explosion.
Dissemination of knowledge of a trade mark in respect of a product through
advertisement in media amounts to use of the trade mark whether or not the
advertisement is coupled with the actual existence of the product in the
market."

18\. The same view was taken by the Division Bench of this Court in J. N.
Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v. Rose & Thistle, 1994 PTC 83 (DB):

"Thus a product and its trade name transcends the physical boundries of a
geographical region and acquires a trans order or overseas or extraterritorial
reputation not only through import of goods but also by its advertisement. The
knowledge and the awareness of the goods of a foreign trader and its trade
mark can be available at a place where goods are not being marketed and
consequently not being used. The manner in which or the source from which the
knowledge has been acquired is immaterial...... The Courts do not approve of
any attempt by one trader to appropriate the mark of another trader, even
though that trader may be a foreign trader and'mostly uses his mark in respect
of the goods available abroad i.e. outside the country where the appropriate
of the mark has taken place. As mentioned earlier, awareness and knowledge of
the mark in the latter country may be because of small trickle of goods in
that country or through advertisement. The manner and method by which the
knowledge of the mark is acquired by the public is of no consequence and will
not matter."

19\. Thirdly, the matter will have to be looked at from the point of view of
the purchasing public. If it is possible for a purchaser of the respondent's
product in India to do so under the impression that he is buying the
appellant's product the respondents as the subsequent adopter of the mark must
be restrained from doing so.

20\. Finally, special considerations come into play where the product is a
medicinal preparation See F. Hoffman - La Roche & Co. A. G. v. DDSA
Pharmaceuticals, (1972) RFC I more so when the clinical composition of the two
competing products are different not so much as to protect the reputation of
the plaintiff but to safeguard the public. In the matter of: Vitamins L. D.'s
application for trade mark I956(1)RPC I, Vapplied for registration of a mark
in respect of a pharmaceutical product in England. The application was opposed
by a company which had its mark registered in America. The opposition was
dismissed by the Trade Mark Authorities. On appeal Lloyd-Jacob J. said :

"Having regard to the fact that the evidence discloses a genuine business on
the part of the appellants in their country of origin, and that advertisements
of such are reaching this country and appearing in libraries or places of
reference to which medical men may resort, it seems to me that 1 am bound to
consider the possibility that with the passage of time, some conflict may
occur between the use of the mark by the present respondents and the
advertisement and user of the mark overseas by the present appellants. Having
regard to the international character which medicine and the allied sciences
have assumed and increasingly assumed over the last two decades, it seems to
me that the Court, must be particularly careful to see that in exercising its
discretion under the Act the public interest is not in any way imperilled. For
my part I am not satisfied that, in allowing to be used by manufacturers in
this country as a brand name for a pharmaceutical substance a word which is in
fact used by an American Corporation in respect of the same material and
advertised in journals, which on the evidence are received into this country
and referred to, the public interest will be best served by permitting
registration."

21\. Applying these principles to the facts of the case it appears to be clear
from the materials before the Court that the appellant had sufficient world
wide reputation connecting the name OCUFLOX to sustain the complaint of
passing off by the respondent.

22\. There is evidence of voluminous sales of the appellant's product OCUFLOX
both in terms of quantity and value world wide from 1992 before the respondent
thought of the name. At the interlocutory stage, where the deponents to the
affidavits are not subjected to cross-examination, the Court necessarily has
to proceed on the basis of affidavit of evidence. There is no reason at this
stage to disregard the statements made on path by the appellant.

23\. There was also publication of the product in medicinal journals before
the respondents entered the scene. One of the publications relied upon by the
appellant is a newspaper called SCRIP. The issue dated 23rd February, 1993
contains the following statement:

"In December, 1992, Allergan received an approvable letter from the US FDA for
the ophthalmic anti-infective, Ocuflox (Offoxacin, licensed from
Santen/Daiichi) solution, for the treatment of external ocular infection."

24\. The issue of SCRIP dated 26th March, 1993 shows that the appellant had
applied for registration of OCUFLOX in the United States. The issue dated 17th
August, 1993 refers to the sale of OCUFLOX by the appellant:

"The US FDA has approved Allergan's Ocuflox 0.3% solution, an ophthalmic
formulation of the fluoroquinolone, ofloxacin (licenced from Daiichi and
Santen) for the treatment of bacteriaconjunc-tivitis. It will be launched by
the end of the year. Allergan already markets the product in France, Italy,
the U.K., Greece, Brazil, Australia and South Africa."

25\. While the statements published in SCRIP may be hearsy and not amount to
proof of its contents, as contended by the respondents, nevertheless the issue
of SCRIP evidences the fact that such statements were published when they
were.

26\. AR Surgery News which describes itself as "The Leading Medical Newspaper
for Opthalmologists" dated 15th October, 1993 contains an article on the first
page in respect of the appellant's sale of OCUFLOX under the heading
"FLUOROQUINOLONE OFFERS EDGE AGAINST BACTERIAL INFECTION". The article is a
lengthy one, relevant extracts of which read:

"The Food & Drug Administration has approved the anti-infective ofloxacin for
ophthalmic use...

To be marketed by Allergan under the tradename Ocuflox, the fluoroquinolone
may "dramatically change" treatment of bacterial infections, according to Eric
Donnenfeld,M.D........

The company is currently marketing of loxacin ophthalmic solution in
Australia, Brazil, France, Greece, Italy, South Africa and the United Kingdom.
Approval in Canada and Spain is pending. Ocuflox is licenced from Daiichi
Pharmaceuti-cals Co. Ltd. Tokyo and Santen Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Osaka
Japan."

27\. The November, 1993 issue of American Journal of Opthalmology (AJO) was
produced by the appellant as a sample of the kind of advertisement made by the
appellant for the sale of OCUFLOX. The advertisements cover eight consecutive
full pages in colour. The word OCUFLOX is printed in an eye-cataching manner
on seven pages in large letters. The first page has the following writing "Now
available in the USA : The World's leading Opthalmic Anti-infective". The last
statement is based on "Leading industry audit for single-agent therapy, 1992
(based on local currency in dollars and standard units)".

28\. It is true that the advertisements have appeared only in medical journals
and newspapers but a pharmaceutical product is rarely, if ever, published in
magazines of general interest. It is published for pharmacists and persons
connected with medicine. That foreign medical journals, including the AJO, are
circulated in India appears to be so from the advertisements issued by the
respondents in respect of their product OCUFLOX :

"BROAD SPECTRUM ACTION The fluoroquinolones are broad spectrum bactericidal
agents with activity against many corneal pathogens including Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (Ref: Journal Antimicrobial Chemotherapy 1989;

23; 527-35) * BETTER PENETRATION IN OCULAR TISSUES & FLUIDS * HIGH SUCCESS
RATE Treatment with ciprofloxacin yielded a 91.9% success rate (AJO 1991 Oct;
112 (4 Suppl); 345-475) * LEAST CHANCES OF BACTERIAL RESISTANCE * SUPERIOR TO
OFLOXACIN & NORFLOXACIN Review of the minimum inhibitory concentrations of the
fluoroquinolones against ocular pathogens reveals that Ciprofloxacin is more
potent that Ofloxacin against many bacteria; Ofloxacin is in turn more potent
that Norfloxacin (Ref: BJO 1995; 79, 606)."

29\. The appellants reliance on copies of the Physicians Desk Reference (PDR)
for the years 1995 and 1996, the Red Book 1994 and 1996, USP Dictionary 1997,
Opthalmic Drug facts, 1996, American Drug Index, 1996, International Drug
Directory of Swiss Pharmaceutical Society, 1995 and advertisements in Canada
to establish the extent of the appellant's reputation in OCUFLOX bear
testimony to reputation but are perhaps not material to the question of its
reputation at the relevant time viz. 30th October, 1993 when the respondents
claim to have entered the market for the first time.

30\. However, the appellant's product OCUFLOX had attracted sufficient
interest in the medical field as early as 15th October, 1993 so that Dr. Eric
D Donnenfeld, acknowledged even by the respondents as an eminent specialist in
his field by the respondents (vide the letter written on 15th November, 1994
by the respondent No. 1 to him), gave his opinion that it would "drastically
change treatment of bacterial infections".

31\. A global reputation associating the mark OCUFLOX with the appellant was
asserted by the appellant in its letter to the respondent on 29th November,
1994 -- an assertion which was not denied by the respondents in their reply.
All that the reply said was :

"In this connection, we request you kindly depute Mr. Arun Ghosh of Calcutta
your Indian representative to discuss the same matter with undersigned to his
best of satisfaction with prior appointment.

For better clarity, we fell personal discussion would be much helpful, that's
why we request you to depute Mr. Ghosh.

We assure our fullest co-operation in subject-matter."

32\. Apart from advertisements, the possibility of confusion between the two
products in the minds of well travelled Indians and of those visiting India
would be a real one. It is not a case of isolated use in a remote country but
of wide spread use in several countries.

"The international mobility of the world population increasingly brings human
beings, and therefore potential consumer of goods and services, closer
together and engenders an increasing and more instantaneous awareness of
international commodities. This is an age of enormous commercial enterprises,
some with budgets larger than soverign states, who advertise their products by
sophisticated means involving huge financial outlay. Goods and services are
often preceded by their reputation abroad. They may not be physically present
in the market of a particular country, but are all well known there because of
the sophistication of communications which are increasingly less limited by
national boundries, and the frequent travel of residents of many countries for
reasons of business, pleasure or study....... Reputation within the
jurisdiction............ may be established by showing constant travel of
people between other countries and forum, and that people within the forum
(whether residents there or persons simply visiting there from other
countries) are exposed to the goods of the overseas owner." (PerLockhart J. in
Congra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Supra) at P. 233, 234).

33\. It is not for the appellant to establish actual confusion. To show the
likelihood is sufficient at this stage (See Vitamins L.D.'s application
(Supra); Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar, (DB)).

34\. Once the appellant's product is released in the Indian market the
consequences may well prove disastrous given the fact that in India, drugs are
available without prescription (See : Astra -IDL Ltd. v. TTK Pharma Ltd.,
(Sic).

35\. It is not necessary to speculate on the bona fides of the respondents.
What is important is that the respondent admittedly adopted the mark after the
appellant (See Staanard v. Reay (Supra); Ruston & Hornby Ltd. v. Zamindara
Engineering Co., ; East End Hosiery Pvt. Ltd. v. Agarwal Textile Mills, . Cor.
S. C. Ghosh, J.) and the main consideration is the likelihood of confusion
with possible injury to the public and consequential loss to the appellant.

36\. To sum up : In the interest of public there cannot be two medicinal
preparations bearing the same name from different sources and with different
compositions. One must go. The appellant was first in the field in several
countries and that gives it the edge over the respondents.

37\. The facts show that, at the very least the appellants claim is not
frivolous and it cannot be said the appellant has no prospect of succeeding at
the trial. The question therefore is whether the balance of convenience lies
in favour of granting or refusing the interlocutory relief that is sought. The
law as enunciated in American Cyanamid Co. v. Ethicon Ltd., (1975) 1 All ER
504 and which has been accepted by Courts in India as being correctly stated
is :

"that the court should first consider whether if the plaintiff were to succeed
at the trial in establishing his right to a permanent injunction he would be
adequately compensated by an award of damages for the loss he would have
sustained as a result of the defendant's continuing to do what was sought to
be enjoined between the time of the application and the time of the trial. If
damages in the measure recoverable at common law would be adequate remedy and
the defendant would be in a financial position to pay them, no interlocutory
injunction should normally be granted, however strong the plaintiffs claim
appeared to be at that stage. If, on the other hand, damages would not provide
an adequate remedy for the plaintiff in the event of his succeeding at the
trial, the court should then consider whether, on the contrary hypothesis that
the defendant were to succeed at the trial in establishing his right to do
that which was sought to be enjoined, he would be adequately compensated under
the plaintiffs undertaking as to damages for the loss he would have sustained
by being prevented from doing so between the time of the application and the
time of the trial."

38\. The respondents say that no prejudice would be suffered by the appellant
could limit its user to OFLOX. The submission is a red herring. The question
is whether the mark OCUFLOX is associated with the appellant internationally.
Prima faice this appears to be so. The respondents cannot also rely on the
goodwill if any they may have built up in the period after receiving the
objection from the plaintiff in November, 1994. Their persistence in doing so
was at their risk (See N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation (Supra)).

39\. This brings us to the question of delay which, according to the
respondents, was sufficient to defeat the appellant's claim to any
interlocutory relief. No doubt delay was considered a factor for dismissing a
claim for interim relief in Shri Gopal Eng. & Chemical Works v. M/s. Pomx
Laboratory, AIR 1992 Delhi 302; Century Electronics Ltd. v. CUS Enterprises
Ltd., 1983 Fleet Street Reports 1; Baskin Robbins Ice-cream v. Gutman & Anr.,
(1976) Fleet Street Reports 545; Synthetic Mouders v. Samperil Aktiergesell
shaft, 1980 Rajdhani LR 263 (DB). On the other hand in Astra-IDL Ltd. v. TTK
Pharma Ltd., (sic) and Hindusthan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. India Stationery
Products, , the Courts were of the opinion, which I respectfully adopt, that
where the interest of the general public is affected, delay is of no
consequence. Moreover, delay could defeat the appellant's right if the
respondents having built up their sales, were suddenly faced with the prospect
of an injunction. Where the respondents were put on notice of the appellant's
claim in 1994 no surprise could have been caused by the filing of the suit by
the appellant to enforce that claim (See Glaxo Operations UK Ltd. v. Samrat
Pharmaceulicals, ).

40\. Apart from comparative prejudice, is the question of compensation. If the
injury to reputation is computed with reference to the sales and promotional
expenditure in any one year it is clear that the sales figures and promotional
expenses claimed by the appellant are of a magnitude which would be impossible
for an average sized concern to secure. Indeed the respondents have not
offered to do so before us nor have they given any undertaking to the learned
single Judge in this regard.

41\. On the other hand the appellant has stated that it is willing to give an
undertaking to the Court to pay the respondents such loss that may be suffered
by them by reason of the injunction, as may be established at the trial. Here
again, accepting the figures put forward by the respondents, the ability of
the appellants to pay the same is not in dispute.

42\. Having regard to the discussion, in my judgment, the order under appeal
must be set aside both on principles of law and fact.

43\. Subject to the undertaking given by the appellants to the Court, which is
hereby recorded, to compensate the respondents for loss, if any, which may be
suffered by the respondents by not using the name OCUFLOX on their product,
the appeal is allowed and the order under appeal is set aside. The ad-
interimorder granted by the Learned single Judge on 18th December, 1996 will
therefore revive and will continue until the disposal of the suit. There will
be no order as to costs.

Devendra Kumar Jain, J.

44\. I agree.

45\. Stay of operation of the order is prayed for and the same is granted 4
weeks from date.

46\. Let a xerox copy of the judgment duly signed by the Assistant Registrar
of this Court be given to the parties upon this undertaking to apply for
certified copy of the judgment and or payment of usual charges.

