

Customs, Excise and Gold Tribunal - Delhi

Nizam Sugar Factory vs Collector Of Central Excise on 4 October, 1999

Equivalent citations: 2003 (89) ECC 873, 1999 (114) ELT 429 Tri Del

Bench: G B Deva, R T Lajja, S Kang, A Unni, A T V.K.

JUDGMENT A.C.C. Unni, Member (J)

1\. This is a matter which has been referred to this Larger Bench constituted
by the President by order dated 21.6.1999 pursuant to Miscellaneous Order No.
54/98-C passed by one of the Benches of this Tribunal. The question referred
relates to the interpretation of Section 11 A(1) of the Central Excise Act,
1944 and its proviso in particular. The Miscellaneous Order No. 54/98-C,
proposing reference of the question to the Larger Bench had observed as under:

"We find that there are conflicting views on the point as to whether the date
of knowledge by the Department is relevant according to the provisions of
Section 11A and whether the notice issued beyond the period of six months from
the date of knowledge, should be held to be barred by the limitation."

2\. Before proceeding further, it will be useful to refer to the said section
which reads as follows:

Section 11A. Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded. -- (1) When any duty of excise has not
been levied or paid or has been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously
refunded a Central Excise Officer may, within six months from the relevant
date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been
levied or paid or which has been short-levied or short-paid or to whom the
refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should
not pay the amount specified in the notice:

Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been
short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud,
collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, or
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made
thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent,
the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, as if, for the words
"six months", the words "five years" were substituted.

Explanation. -- Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order of a
court, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the aforesaid
period of six months or five years, as the case may be.

(2) The Central Excise Officer shall, after considering the representation, if
any, made by the person on whom notice is served under Sub-section (1),
determine the amount of duty of excise due from such person (not being in
excess of the amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall
pay the amount so determined.

(3) For the purposes of this section, --

(i) "refund" includes......

(ii) "relevant date" means, --

(a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied
or paid or has been short-levied or short-paid --

(A) Where under the rules made under this Act a periodical return, showing
particulars of the duty paid on the excisable goods removed during the period
to which the said return relates, is to be filed by a manufacturer or a
producer or a licensee of a warehouse, as the case may be, the date on which
such return is so filed;

(B) Where no periodical return as aforesaid is filed, the last date on which
such return is to be filed under the said rules;

(C) In any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act
or the rules made thereunder;

(b) in a case where duty of excise is provisionally assessed under this Act or
the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of duty after the final
assessment thereof;

(c) In the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has been
erroneously refunded, the date of such refund."

3\. Some of the decisions favouring the Revenue held as under: In the case of
Pure Drinks (P) Ltd. v. CCE, New Delhi, 1996 (17) RLT 375 (T), the Tribunal
took the view that the time limit of five years will run from the date of the
alleged removal and the period is not to be curtailed to a shorter period on
the basis of the date of knowledge on the part of the Department about the
alleged removal without payment of duty since no such date is envisaged by
Section 11A as one of the relevant dates for the purpose of computing
limitation. To the same effect was the decision of the Calcutta Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of Indian Oxygen Ltd. v. CCE, Bhubaneswar, 1996 (16) RLT
867 (CEGAT-EB)] wherein the invoking of the extended period of limitation was
held to be valid and proper even though the Show Cause Notice was issued after
a period of six months from the date of knowledge of the assessess'
activities. In the case of Needle Industries India Ltd. v. CCE, 1996(16) RLT
903, the Tribunal held that the SCN is issue to cover the period prior to the
Department acquiring knowledge about assessees' activities is not barred by
limitation even though the notice is issued beyond a period of six months from
the date of such knowledge.

The common line of approach in the aforesaid orders was that the date of
acquisition of knowledge about alleged suppressed activities of the assessee
is not a relevant date within the meaning of Section 11A and even though SCN
is issued beyond the period of six months from the date of such knowledge,
they would not be vitiated as long as it is issued within the period of five
years from the relevant date as defined under the provisions of Section
11A(3)(ii)(a).

4\. There were also contrary decisions of the Tribunal on the question. For
example, in the case of Varanasi Bottling Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE, 1997 (19) RLT
668 it was held that the SCN is required to be issued within a period of six
months from the date of knowledge on the part of the Department of any
suppression of production etc. The Miscellaneous Order (54/98-C) referring the
matter to this Larger Bench also noted that the issue as to whether the date
of knowledge on the part of the Department of the alleged suppressed
activities of assessee is the relevant date under the provisions of Section
11A has been referred to the Hon'ble Orissa High Court by the Tribunal in the
case of Oriclean Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE, 1998 (25) RLT 70.

5\. We had the benefit of hearing S/Shri J.V. Suryanarayana, and J. Venkaiah,
Ld. advocates for M/s. Nizam Sugar Factory. We had also heard S/Shri V
Lakshmikumaran, G. Shiv Das, M.P. Devnath, Shekhar Vyas, P.K. Sahu and A.K.
Jain, advocates as Interveners. We have also heard Shri Sanjeev Srivastava,
Ld. JDR representing the Department.

6\. Ld. Counsel Shri J.V. Suryanarayana stated that the Department had issued
a SCN to M/s. Nizam Sugar Factory on 28.2.1984 demanding duty for the period
February 1978 to September 1982 on the production of impure Carbondioxide
emanating as a by-product during the process of fermentation of molasses in
the appellants' factory. It was further alleged that the assessee had cleared
the said carbondioxide without payment of duty to another unit in
contravention of Rule 9(1) of the Central Excise Rules and without obtaining
licence for manufacture of carbondioxide in their factory and without filing
Classification/Price List and without maintaining accounts. The assessee had
replied to the SCN on 19.3.1984 contending that impure carbondioxide was not
excisable to duty relying on some earlier decision. Though personal hearing
was held on 16.4.1984, according to the Ld. Counsel, the assessee had not
heard anything in the matter thereafter. However, the assessees were issued
another SCN by the Collector on 16.7.1987 alleging that the assessee was
supplying carbondioxide to another unit as per agreement dated 19.3.1983 and
that they had not taken necessary licence and had not followed the procedure
prescribed under the rules and had not discharged duty liability. The said
notice covered the period of assessment years 1982-83 to 1986-87. During the
adjudication proceedings the assessee inter alia took the plea that the SCN
under consideration was practically a repetition of the allegations contained
in the SCN dated 28.2.1984 and for the period April 1982 to September 1982 the
Department had raised demands under two different SCNs. The assessee had
further pointed out that carbondioxide in the impure form was not marketable
as it also contained carbonmonoxide in lethal proportions. The assessee was
also contended that they were under bona fide belief that since such impure
carbondioxide was not excisable, they were also not required to file
Classification List or Price list or to take out licence. Assessee therefore
submitted that resorting to extended period of limitation under Section 11A(1)
was not justified in the circumstances of the case.

7\. The adjudicating authority however, did not accept the assessee contention
and the demands raised in the SCN were confirmed by the impugned order. Ld.
Counsel contends before us that the extended period of limitation was not
invocable against them by way of the second SCN when the assessee had been
contesting the demand raised even for the earlier period. He contended that in
a case where the Department issues a Show Cause Notice on the basis of a
certain set of facts to an assessee it cannot allege in another SCN issued
subsequently for a later period, suppression on the part of the assessee when
it was fully aware of all the facts even at the time of issuing the first SCN.
Extended period of limitation could not therefore be invoked. He relied on the
following case law in support of his contention viz.,

(a) Hindustan Development Corporation Ltd. v. CCE, 1990 (50) ELT 165 (T)

(b) Khatao Makanji Spg. & Wvg. Co. v. CCE, Bombay, 1999 (108) ELT 378 (T)

(c) Sonarome Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE, Bangalore, 1998 (101) ELT 328 (T)
Reliance was also placed on the following further case law in support of the
contention that when two SCNs are issued on identical set of facts, extended
period cannot be invoked:

(i) Mettur Chemical & Indus. Corporation Ltd. v. CCE, Coimbatore, 1996 (87)
ELT 114 (T).

(ii) Wipro Information Technology v. CCE, Bangalore, 1999 (107) ELT 467 (T).

(iii) Nicholas Piramal India Ltd. v. CCE, Mumbai-II, 1998 (101) ELT 314 (T) In
other words, when the Department was in full knowledge of the facts of the
case at the stage of the first SCN, it was not permissible to issue a further
SCN to the same assessee levelling the very same allegations as contained in
the earlier SCN and still allege suppression of facts on the part of the
assessee. Invoking of the extended period of limitation in the second SCN on
the ground of suppression was therefore untenable when the Department had full
knowledge of the facts even at the time of issuing the first SCN. He submitted
that in such cases, the extended period of five years as provided in the
proviso to Section 11A (1) was not available to the Department. He submitted
that on the basis of the case law cited the Larger Bench may be pleased to
dispose of the reference in favour of the assessees

8\. Ld. Advocate Shri. V. Lakshmikumaran, submitted that date of knowledge on
the part of the Department was a very relevant fact or for construing the
scope of the proviso to Section 11A(1) of the C.E. Act. He contended that the
said proviso was an exceptional provision which is attracted where non-levy,
short-levy or erroneous refund on the part of the Department had occurred or
where non-payment or short-payment by assessee had taken place by reason of
fraud, collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts or
contravention of any provisions of the Act or Rules with intent to evade
payment of duty. In such cases SCN could be issued within a period of five
years instead of six months. He referred to Tribunal decision in Mopeds India
Ltd. v. CCE, 1991 (56) ELT 241 (T), in which a three Member Bench of the
Tribunal had held that though suppression was manifested in the facts of the
case as evident from non-disclosure of material particulars in the Price Lists
submitted by the assessee, since the Department had become aware of the
malpractice even on 23.10.1975, the SCN issued on 5.1.1977 was not permissible
for recovery of differential duty for the period 1.3.1974 to 23.10.1975. He
also drew attention to the report appearing in 1991 (52) ELT A102 stating that
the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 14.1.1991 had dismissed an appeal filed by
C.C.E., Hyderabad against the Tribunal decision in Mopeds India Ltd. case
(supra). In Neyveli Lignites Corporation Ltd. v.CCE, 1992 (58) ELT 76 (T), the
Tribunal had held that the extended period of limitation would not be
applicable when demand for subsequent period is raised under normal limitation
period and the demand for the earlier, period is raised subsequently. In the
case of CCE v. Debikay Electronics [Final Order No. 3554/96-A, dated
5.11.1996] the Tribunal had held on the basis of the decisions in Mopeds India
case and Neyveli Lignites Corporation cases (supra) that the longer period of
limitation as such would not be available to the Department where the duty
evasion or malpractice was known to the Department sufficiently early and
there was long delay in issuing the SCN. Reliance was also placed by the Ld.
Advocate on the Tribunal decision in Atlas Capco India Ltd. v. C.C.E. Final
Order Nos. 223-234/97-A, dated 7.2.1997, in which, following the Neyveli
Lignites Corporation case (supra) it was held that failure on the part of the
Department to issue SCN within a reasonable period from the date of knowledge
would be fatal. Reliance was also placed on the decision in Varanasi Bottling
Co. (P) Ltd. v. CCE, 1997 (19) RLT 668 (T) where the Tribunal held that even
though the SCN alleged suppression of facts by the assessee, in view of the
fact that the Department had also issued notice to get clarification and since
information relating to production was very much within the knowledge of the
Department, the Department should have issued the SCN within a period of six
months from the date of knowledge and not within the extended period of five
years. Similar view was taken by the Tribunal in JSL Industries Ltd. v. CCE,
1998 (25) RLT 779 (T), and it was held that extended time limit would not be
invocable when SCN is not issued within six months from the date of knowledge
of the Department.

9\. Ld. Counsel Shri G. Shiv Das referred to and relied on the following case
law in support of the contention that the SCN has to be issued within six
months of the Department acquiring knowledge of fraud, collusion etc. referred
to in the proviso to Section 11A(1).

(a) Nitson Laboratories v. CCE, 1998 (26) RLT 359 (T).

(b) Pratibha Industries v. CCE, Final Order Nos. 380-381/97-D dated 8.5.1997.

(c) Kathiravan Pipes Ltd. v. CCE, 1998 (61) ECC 627 (T) : 1998 (27) RLT 820
(T)

(d) Crescent Castings India v. CCE, 1998 (27) RLT 861 (T)

(e) Kamal Plywood & Allied Industries (P) ltd. v. CCE, 1996 (82) ELT 323 (T)

(f) M.P. Vegetable Fruit Products v. CCE, 1995 (76) ELT 393 (T)

(g) Cosmic Dyechemical v. CCE, 1994 (48) ECC 55 (SC) : 1995 (75) ELT 721 (SC)

(h) Lubri-Chem Industries Ltd. v. CCE, 1996 (53) ECC 92 (SC) : 1994 (73) ELT
257 (SC)

(i) Rajshi Foam, Therm & Pack v. CCE, 1997 (20) RLT 161 (T) (j) Carponics Pvt.
Ltd. v. CCE, 1998 (29) RLT 697 (T)

10\. Shri P.K. Sahu, Ld. Counsel submitted that date of knowledge was a
relevant factor for issuing SCN under the proviso to Section 11A and the
proviso cannot be invoked for justifying the extended period of five years
when the Department had knowledge and the SCN has to be issued within a
reasonable period i.e. six months from the date of knowledge. He submitted
that if the literary interpretation of a statutory provision results in an
absurd situation the court can adopt a reasonable interoperation (CIT v. J.H.
Gotla, 156 ITR 323 (S.C)),

11\. Shri A.K. Jain, Ld. Advocate submitted that there is no provision in the
Act or in the Rules for constituting a Larger Bench of the Tribunal to hear
issues which have already been decided by regular Bench of the Tribunal.
Further in the instant reference the very same issue has been referred by
another Bench of the Tribunal to the Hon'ble Orissa High Court in Oriclean
Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE, 1998 (104) ELT 750 (Tribunal) = 1998 (25) RLT 70. Moreover a
decision of a Bench of the Tribunal on a point ignoring an earlier decision of
another Bench on the same point would be per incuriam and therefore not
binding. He referred to the Kerala High Court judgment reported in 1993(66)
ELT351 in this connection.

Reference was also made by the Ld. Counsel to the Madras High Court decision
is S. Mohan Raj v. Director of Enforcement, 1995 (75) ELT 251 in which the
Hon'ble High Court had held that the Enforcement Directorate should complete
its investigation within a reasonable period under the Foreign Exchange
Regulation Act and any proceeding initiated after a lapse of reasonable period
would be illegal and liable to be quashed. Reference was also made to the new
Section 11AB of C.E. Act which provides for demanding interest from the
assessee from the date on which duty liability has arisen. Ld. Counsel
submitted that allowing the extended period of limitation without any
reference to the date of acquisition of knowledge by the Department of the
grounds mentioned in the proviso to Section 11A(1) would make the duty demand
unjust and unreasonable and therefore the period of six months should be taken
as a reasonable period within which the Department has to issue the SCN under
Section 11A(1) proviso. .

12\. Opposing the submissions made by the Ld. Counsel for the appellants: and
the Intetrveners, Shri Sanjeev Srivastava, Ld. JDR submitted that Section
11A(1) and its proviso does not make any reference to any date of knowledge on
the part of the Central Excise Officer for issuing a SCN. He submitted that if
the Legislature had intended to put a condition that the SCN should be issued
within a period of six months from the date of knowledge on the part of the
Central Excise Officer, they would have clearly provided such a condition as
in the case of Section 17 of the Limitation Act, 1963. He submitted that the
only difference between the opening portion of Section 11A(1) and its proviso
was that where non-levy/non-payment of duty, or short-levy/short
-payment/erroneous refund had occurred by reason of fraud/collusion/wilful
misstatement/suppression of facts/contravention of the provisions of the Act
or Rules with intent to evade payment of duty, the SCN can be issued within
five years from the relevant date instead of six months in contradiction to
instances where the conditions specified in the proviso did not exist. There
was therefore no scope for importing any new concept like date of knowledge on
the part of the Department into the proviso to Section 11A(1). He referred to
Crafords "Construction of Statutes", at pages 240-245 and 266....... In
support of his contention that there was no scope for importing any new
concept into a statutory provision when its meaning is clear and unambiguous.
Ld. JDR also drew attention to the fact that Mopeds India case (supra) relied
on in some of the decisions of the Tribunal and cited by the Ld. Advocates for
the Interveners did not in fact interpret the provisions of Section 11A(1) or
its proviso. That case arose in the context of the provisions of Rule 10 of
the C.E. Rules, 1944 as it stood at the relevant time at that time under which
the time prescribed was three months. It was Rule 10A of Central Excise Rules
at that time, which provided a limitation period of one year irrespective of
the date of knowledge of the malpractice by the Department. In that case, the
demand which was raised for the period from 1.3.1974 to 23.10.1975 by SCN
dated 5.1.1977 was in any case beyond 3 months or the extended period of one
year provided under Rule 10A of the C.E. Rules as it stood at the relevant
time Ld. JDR submitted that the various decisions subsequently passed by the
Tribunal citing the Mopeds case had thus mis-construed the ratio of the said
decision. He further submitted that some of the decisions relied on by the Ld.
Counsel for the Interveners such as the decision in Atlas Capco India Ltd. v.
CCE (supra) does not support the assessees' contention relating to date of
knowledge for issuing SCN since in that decision, the Tribunal had struck down
the SCN on the basis of allegation about suppression itself not being
substantiated to be and not because the period of limitation had been
exceeded. Similarly, the Tribunal decision in Varanasi Bottling Co. Pvt.
(supra) also did not relate to the issue involved in the present reference.

13\. Ld. JDR further submitted that on a proper construction of the proviso to
Section 11A(1), the date of knowledge on the part of the Central Excise
Officer issuing the SCN can be related only to the date of issue of SCN and
not to any other date. The date of receipt of any information about
suppression or mis-statement of facts, etc. cannot automatically be considered
to be the date on which the Central Excise Officer issuing the SCN had
acquired 'knowledge' of the alleged suppression, mis-statement etc. In many
cases further investigations will require to be carried out before taking even
a prima facie view about the credibility and sufficiency of such information
for initiating a SCN. The mere date of receipt some information, irrespective
of its relevance or sufficiency cannot be considered to be a date of
'knowledge' on the part of the Officer clothed with the power to issue the
notice. The 'relevant date' mentioned in Section 11A(3) is for the purpose of
serving notice. As per the definition of 'relevant date' in Sub-section
3(ii)(a) of Section 11A, it is the date on which the duty has become payable
and not the elate of detection of fraud, collusion etc. Further, even in terms
of the proviso, there is no bar as such for issuing a SCN even after a period
beyond five years from the relevant date. In terms of Section 11A proviso, in
a case where the subsisting duty liability had arisen on account of fraud,
collusion etc. extended beyond a period of five years, the period for which
such demand could be legally raised had only been restricted to five years. In
a case where the duty liability on account of short-levy etc. has arisen in
the normal course, i.e., not on account of suppression etc., the demand can be
extended only to six months.

14\. Ld. JDR further submitted that though there was no direct decision in
support of his contention that date of knowledge is the date of issue of SCN,
there are observations in many decisions of the Tribunal which supports the
proposition that date of knowledge can be attributed only to the date on which
the SCN is issued. He referred to the following decisions in this connection:

(a) AIMS Oxygen Pvt. Ltd. Baroda v. CCE, Baroda 1988 (36) ELT 151 (T)

(b) CCE v. Metal Box India Ltd., 1989 (19) ECC 91 (T) : 1989 (39) ELT 79 (T)

(d) Jaishree Engineering Co. (P) Ltd. v. CCE, 1989 (20) ECC 12 (T) : 1989 (39)
ELT 449(T).

15\. Further, the Tribunal orders in Metal Box India Ltd. case and Jaishree
Engg. Co. case referred to above have also been upheld by the Supreme Court.
In the light of the above submissions, Ld. JDR would submit that the various
decisions holding that SCNs issued after a period of six months from the so-
called date of knowledge by the Department did not represent the correct view
of the law and therefore not sustainable. The rationale of the said decisions
relying on the concept of 'date of knowledge' and the requirement of issuing
SCN within a reasonable period (six months) from such date of knowledge were
alien to and incompatible with the clear and unambiguous language of Section
11A(1) and its proviso.

16\. We have considered the submissions and the case law.

17\. During the course of the submissions, Ld. Counsel Shri V. Lakshmi Kumaran
and Shri G. Shiv Das had stated that the Department's Appeal against the
Tribunal decision in Mopeds India Ltd. (supra) had been dismissed by the Apex
Court and they were making efforts to obtain a certified copy of the said
order and the same may be allowed to be filed with the Registry. This request
was allowed by the Bench. A photocopy of the certified copy of the said Order
dated 14th January 1991 in Civil Appeal No. 2150(NM) of 1987 of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has since been filed by Advocate Shri M.P. Devnath on 15th July
1999.

18\. We have perused the Order. The full text of the order reads: "The Civil
Appeal is dismissed". No doubt the Order is thus not a speaking order and no
ratio as such can. be derived from it. Nevertheless, having regard to the fact
that the Order has arisen from the Appeal filed by the Revenue against the
Tribunal Order in M/s. Mopeds (India) Ltd., the resulting legal position would
be that the Tribunal Order in Mopeds India Ltd. has been upheld by the Apex
Court and the view taken by the Tribunal in the said case has the approval of
the Apex Court. It is true that the Ld. JDR had urged that the Mopeds India
Ltd. case dealt with the limitation period in Rules 10 and 10A of the C.E.
Rules, as they stood at the relevant time and not the provisions of Section
11A(1) and its proviso. However, we note that the tribunal had in that
decision in Para 13 considered the issue relating to time bar and observed as
follows:

"The learned counsel for the appellants argued that the demand is barred by
time. The lower authorities have adverted to Rule 9(2) and Rule 10(1) of the
Central Excise Rules, 1994. The decision of the Tribunal in 1983 (14) ELT 1927
(Shriram Pistons & Rings Ltd. Ghaziabad v. Collector of Central Excise,
Meerut) considers the effect of these provisions in juxtaposition. It was held
therein that no period of limitation is prescribed for the levy of a penalty
either in terms of Rule 9(2) or Rule 173Q; just as the limitation prescribed
in Section 468 of the Cr. P.C. is inapplicable to a prosecution under Section
9 of the Act. The department has claimed that there was a suppression of fact.
Shri A.K. Jain stated that no time-limit has been prescribed under Rule 9 and
hence the demand is not time barred. But it must be pointed out that Rule 9(2)
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, at the relevant period read as follows:

"(2) If any excisable goods are, in contravention of Sub-rule (1), deposited
in or removed from, any place specified therein, the producer or manufacturer
thereof shall pay the duty leviable on such goods upon written demand made
(within the period specified in Rule 10) by the proper officer, whether such
demand is delivered personally to him, or is left at his dwelling house, and
shall also be liable to a penalty which may extend to two thousand rupees, and
such goods shall be liable to confiscation." So there must be a written demand
made within the period specified in Rule 10. Rule 10 at the relevant time
prescribed the limit of 3 months and Rule 10A read with Rule 173] provided a
period of one year. In this case the suppression is manifest because the
appellants have not disclosed the material particulars in the price lists.
Nevertheless we must observe that the department became aware of the
malpractices even on 23.10.1975 but the show cause notice was issued on
5.1.1977, Hence in that view, the department will not be entitled to recover
the differential duty from 1,3.1974 to 23.10.1975."

19\. It is observed from the last portion of Para 13 reproduced above that the
Tribunal had taken a definite view in the issue relating to issue of SCN after
the date of its becoming 'aware' of the malpractice. The Department had become
aware of the malpractice even on 23.10.1975 but the SCN was issued only on
5.1.1977. For that reason it was held that the Department was not entitled to
recover differential duty from 1.3.1974 to 23.10.1975 as raised in the SCN. It
is no doubt true that the provision relating to limitation (Rules 10 and 10A
as they stood at the relevant time) was different from Section 11A which is
the provision presently under consideration.

20\. Since the Apex Court has, by dismissing the Revenue Appeal against the
Tribunal decision in Mopeds case and thereby confirmed the Tribunal's view,
the said decision has to be taken as having been endorsed by the Apex Court
thereby settling the legal position.

21\. Accordingly, we answer the reference extracted in Paragraph 1 above in
the affirmative and hold that notice issued beyond the period of six months
from the date of knowledge by the Department of suppression, fraud etc. would
be barred by limitation under proviso to Section 11A(1).

Per: V.K. Agrawal, Member (T) for self and on behalf of S/Shri Lajja Ram,
Member (T) and S.S. Kang, Member (J).

22\. I have the opportunity of going through the order as recorded by my
learned brother Shri A.C.C. Unni, Member (J). With due respect, I beg to
differ from him for the following reasons:

23.1 On account of proviso to Sub-section (1) to Section 11A of the Act, the
sub-section provides that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid
or has been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of
fraud, collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, or
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the Rules made
thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent,
a Central Excise Officer may, within five years from the relevant date, serve
notice on the person chargeable with the duty, requiring him to show cause why
he should not pay the amount specified in the notice. It is thus apparent that
in case of any of the specified reasons mentioned in the proviso, if any
Central Excise duty has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded, a show cause notice may be issued within
five years from the relevant date. Relevant date has been defined in Sub-
section (3) to Section 11A and nowhere this sub-section provides that the
relevant date means the date of acquiring the knowledge by the Department. As
such acquiring the knowledge by the Department does not take away the period
of five years provided by the law Makers in the Act itself. We must not lose
sight of the fact that extended period of limitation has been provided by the
Law Makers with the clear intention that if a person has not paid the duty,
which is due to the Government under law, on account of fraud, suppression,
wilful mis-statement or contravention of Act or rules with an intent to evade
payment of duty, the Department can deprive him of his illegal benefit and/or
demand the duty due to the Government within a period of five years from the
relevant date. This period of five years is not curtailed merely because the
Department has come to know about the fraud, suppression, etc., committed by
the assessee. 'Casus/Omisus' is well-settled rule of interpretation. Certain
matters have to be left to the wisdom of Legislature. The matter which should
have been but has not been provided for in a statute, cannot be supplied by
Courts. The Supreme Court in P.K. Unni v. Nirmala Industries, AIR 1990 SC 33
has quoted with approval the following observations of the Privy Council in
the case of Crawford v. Spooner, (1846) 6 Moor (PC) 1, 8, 9;

"We cannot aid the Legislature's defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add
and mend, and by construction, make up deficiencies which are left there."

23.2 In Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher (1949) 2 All ER 155(CA), Lord
Denning observed: "A Judge must not alter the material of which the Act is
woven, but he can and should iron out the creases." In the present matters
there are no creases to be ironed out as the legislative intent is clear that
in case of suppression etc. the show cause notice may be issued within 5 years
from the relevant date. Accordingly, a new meaning to relevant date of
introducing 5 years from the date of acquiring knowledge cannot be provided in
Sub-section (3) to Section 11A(1) of the Act by the Tribunal. It has also been
held by the Apex Court in many cases [Miles India Ltd. v. Assistant Collector
of Customs, 1987 (30) ELT 641 (SC) and C.C.E. v. Doaba Coop. Sugar Milts, 1988
(18) ECC 157 (SC) : 1988(37) ELT 478 (SC)] that the officers exercising powers
under the provisions of the Act cannot ignore the provisions of the Act and
the Rules. They are the creatures of the statute. They are bound by the
provisions of the statute,"...... an assessee is bound within the four corners
of the Statute and the period of limitation prescribed in the Central Excise
Act and Rules framed thereunder must be adhered to. If the proceedings are
taken under the Act by the Department, the provisions of limitation prescribed
in the Act will prevail." The Apex Court, further, in the case of U.O.I. v.
Kirloskar Pneumatic Co., 1996 (15) RLT 1 (SC) directed that the High Court
cannot order the authorities to act country to law. The Supreme Court held
that "yet the question is whether it is permissible for the High Court to
direct the authorities under the Act to act contrary to the aforesaid
statutory provision. We do not think it is, even while acting under Article
226 of the Constitution... In particular, the Customs authorities, who are the
creatures of the Customs Act, cannot be directed to ignore or act contrary to
Section 27..."

24\. The learned Counsel for the Intervener has relied, upon the decision in
the case of Mopeds India Ltd. v. CCE, 1991 (56) ELT 241 (T) wherein the show
cause notice issued on 5.1.1977 was held to be beyond the time limit for
recovery of differential duty for the period from 1.3.1974 to 23.10.1975. In
this case it was also observed that the Department had become aware of the
malpractice on 23.10.1975. He has also emphasised that the Supreme Court had
dismissed the appeal filed by the Department as reported in 1991 (52) ELT
A102. On the other hand, the learned DR, arguing on behalf of the Revenue, has
submitted that Mopeds India's case arose in the context of the provisions of
Rule 10 of the Central Excise Rules which provided a time limit of 3 months at
the relevant time. Further, even Rule 10A of the Central Excise Rules provided
an extended period of one year only and as such the show cause notice issued
on 5.1.1977 was beyond even the extended period of limitation. I find
substantial force in the submissions of the learned DR that the notice issued
in Mopeds India's case on 5.1.1977 was beyond the period of not only general
limitation but even extended period as was provided under Rules 10 and 10A of
the Central Excise Rules. This contention has not been controverted by the
Advocates appearing on behalf of the assessee involved or on behalf of the
Interveners. Once the show cause notice was beyond the extended period of
limitation, any reference to date of acquiring the knowledge thus has no
relevance. No inference need be drawn from the fact that the department became
aware of the malpractices on 23.10.1975. The law has been clearly enunciated
by the Tribunal in the case of Pure Drinks (P) Ltd., 1996 (17) RLT 375 wherein
it was held:

"There is nothing in the language of Section 11A(1) proviso or the definition
of the term "relevant date" under Sub-section (3) of Section 11A to take the
date of the department's knowledge of the alleged irregularity as the starting
point of limitation... The limit of five years will run from the date of
alleged removal and this cannot be curtailed by the intervening development of
the officers detecting the offense and coming to know of the non-payment of
duty".

I am, therefore, of the view that any show cause notice issued beyond the
period of six months from the date of acquiring knowledge, will not be barred
by limitation, if the duty has not been levied or not-paid or short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilful
mis-statement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the
provisions of Act or Rules with intent to evade payment of duty and the show
cause notice has been issued within 5 years from the relevant date as defined
in Sub-section (3) of Section 11A of the Central Excise Act.

Per: G.A. Brahma Deva

25\. I have gone through the orders written by my learned brothers Shri A.C.C.
Unni, Member (Judicial) and Shri V.K. Agrawal, Member (Technical)
respectively. On going through the respective orders, I concur with the
conclusion arrived at by my learned brother Shri A.C.C. Unni, for the reason
that the words "Knowledge" and "Suppression" are exactly opposite terms.

Knowledge means knowing, familiarity; fact of knowing: range of information or
understanding.

Suppression means to keep secret, not to reveal or in other words concealment
of fact that ought to be made known.

Although, the word "Knowledge" as such is not mere in the Section 11A(i) and
its proviso nevertheless, we find that exact opposite word "Suppression"
therein. According to proviso to "Section 11A(i) where no levy/non-payment of
duty, or short-levy/short-payment/occurred by reason of fraud,
collusion/wilful mis-statement suppression of fact/contravention of any of the
provision of this Act or of the rules with intent to evade payment of duty the
department can issue notice within five years from the relevant date instead
of six months. In other words department can raise demand by issuing a notice
for a period of five years if there was suppression of facts. On the other
hand if there is no suppression of facts or if it was within the knowledge of
the Department there was no justification to raise demand invoking the larger
period. There was no necessity to insert knowledge on the part of the
department into the proviso to Section 11A since the term "Suppression" was
already there. There is lot of force in the arguments advanced on behalf of
the assessees that date of knowledge was relevant factor for issuing of a show
cause notice under the proviso to Section 11A(1) and the proviso cannot be
invoked for justifying the extended period of five years when the department
had knowledge and the show cause notice has to be issued within a reasonable
period i.e. six months from the date of knowledge. Provisions of charging
section particularly in the Taxing statute has to be interpreted in a
reasonable manner and in fact Supreme Court in the case of Commissioner of
Income Tax v. J.H. Gotla, 156 AIR 323 (SO held that if the literary
interpretation of a statutory provision results in an absurd situation the
Court can adopt a reasonable interpretation. What is knowledge and whether
department had sufficient knowledge may depend upon the facts on the each case
with which we are not concerned and nor we are supposed to answer that
hypothetical question in this reference.

Further, in the case of Moped (India) Ltd., 1991 (56) ELT 241 the Tribunal had
taken a view that department was not right in invoking the larger period since
the activity of the assesses was within the knowledge of the department. The
view taken by the tribunal in that case was upheld by the Apex Court by
dismissing the appeal filed by the department. Since the Tribunal Order in
Moped India case has been upheld by the Apex Court and the view taken by the
Tribunal in the said case has the approval of the Apex Court, the order of the
Tribunal is as that of an order of the Apex Court and is binding on the lower
court and this position has been properly analysed by my learned brother Shri
A.C.C. Unni in Para 18 of the order and the view expressed by him is concurred
with. In the case of Sarwan Singh Lamba and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors.,
AIR 195 (sic) (S.C.) 1729 the Supreme Court held that normally even an obiter
dictum is expected to be obeyed and followed. With this view that question
referred to the Larger Bench is to be answered in the affirmative manner and
accordingly, notice issued beyond the period of six months from the date of
knowledge by the department of suppression fraud etc. will be barred by
limitation under proviso to Section 11A(1) of the Act.

FINAL ORDER

26\. By majority it is held that the date of knowledge by the department is
not relevant according to the provisions of Section 11A and the notice issued
beyond the period of six months from the date of knowledge will not be barred
by limitation.

