

Supreme Court of India

Y. Srinivasa Rao vs J. Veeraiah And Ors on 27 April, 1992

Equivalent citations: 1993 AIR 929, 1992 SCR (2) 780

Author: L Sharma

Bench: Sharma, L.M. (J)

    
    
               PETITIONER:
    Y. SRINIVASA RAO
    
    	Vs.
    
    RESPONDENT:
    J. VEERAIAH AND ORS.
    
    DATE OF JUDGMENT27/04/1992
    
    BENCH:
    SHARMA, L.M. (J)
    BENCH:
    SHARMA, L.M. (J)
    ANAND, A.S. (J)
    
    CITATION:
     1993 AIR  929		  1992 SCR  (2) 780
     1992 SCC  (3)	63	  JT 1992 (3)	 84
     1992 SCALE  (1)935
    
    
    ACT:
         Constitution of India, 1950:
         Article  14-Settlement of fair price  shops-Appointment
    of  dealer-Basis for selection-Eligibility  criteria-Prefer-
    ence  given  to	 less educated	persons	 over  persons	with
    higher educational qualification-Whether violative of.
    
    
    
    HEADNOTE:
         In	  response   to	  an   advertisement   calling	 for
    applications for appointment of dealer of a fair price shop,
    the  appellant	and the respondent No.1 applied	 along	with
    many  others. Appellant, a Commerce graduate had  experience
    in  running  fair price shop, whereas  respondent  No.1	 has
    passed	10th class only. On the bsis of a  brief  interview,
    responent  No.	1 was selected. Appellant  moved  Respondent
    No.3, but was not successful. Later, he preferred a Revision
    Petition  before the Collector, who allowed his	 claim.	 Re-
    spondent  No.1	challenged the said order  before  the	High
    Court,	which was allowed by a Single Judge and	 later	con-
    firmed	by  a  Division Bench. Aggrieved  against  the	High
    Court's	 order,	 the  appellant has  preferred	the  present
    appeal.
         On behalf of the appellant, it was contended that there
    was  no	 guideline indicating the nature  of  the  interview
    which  was  the	 sole  basis for making	 a  choice  for	 the
    settlement of the fair price shops.
         The  respondents contended that less  educated  persons
    were given preference as they were handicapped by reason  of
    lack   of   education  as  compared  to	  better   qualified
    applicants.  It	 was further contended that since  a  highly
    educated person may get a better job, he may not be able  to
    run the shop on a permanent basis.
         Allowing the appeal, this Court,
         HELD  : 1. The decision to prefer an uneducated  person
    over  an  educated  person amounts to  allowing	 premium  on
    ignorance, incom-
    							 781
    petence and consequently inefficiency. The only fault of the
    appellant is to have  pursued his studies beyond 10th class.
    If he had discontinued his career as a student even earlier,
    say  after  passing  7th or 8th class, he  would  have	been
    running the shop today. This clearly amounts to gross  arbi-
    trariness  and, therefore, illegal discrimination.  Pursuing
    this  line  the State will have to be going in search  of  a
    more inefficient and illiterate or semi literate person	 and
    nobody knows where this process would end. On the  assertion
    that  a better qualified person has got a better  chance  to
    succeed	 in life, an intelligent applicant who can  run	 the
    shop efficiently should be rejected and a dim witted  fellow
    should be selected would be an absurd situation. [784 C-E]
         2.	 That  a better qualified person is  not  likely  to
    stick to the job, is not spelt out by the Government Orders.
    In  any	 event,	 with a view  to ensure that  a	 person	 not
    interested  in running the business may not obtain the	set-
    tlement	  of the shop merely on the basis of his  qualifica-
    tions,	care may be taken to impose appropriate	 conditions,
    by  restricting	 the choice to local  inhabitants,  and,  or
    requiring  furnishing of guarantee for running the  business
    for a minimum number of years. [784 F, G]
        3.	So far the interview fixed as the sole criterion  in
    the  present  case, the same in the  absence  of  guidelines
    leaves	the  matter to the whims of the	 individual  officer
    holding the interview. The exercise of such unbridled power,
    will  be  clearly violative of Article	14.  Therefore,	 the
    policy adopted by the State Government is  unconstitutional.
    [784 G,H; 785 A]
    
    
    
    JUDGMENT:
    

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 1806 of 1992\.

From the Judgment and Order dated 26.6.1991 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court
in Writ Appeal No. 488 of 1991.

Narasimha P.S. and P. Kesave Pillai (NP) for the Appellant.

K. Ram Kumar and T.V.S.N. Chari for the Respondents. The Judgment of the Court
was delivered by SHARMA,J. Special leave is granted.

2\. The case relates to the appointment of a dealer of a fair price shop  782
in Andhra Pradesh. An advertisement for the purpose was issued on 16.4.1990 as
per annexure A inviting applications from the eligible candidates subject to,
inter alia, the following conditions:-

> "5. Preference will be given to the candidates who are experienced in the
> business.

6\. Preference will be given to unemployed educated persons, ladies and
handicapped persons in case of equal qualifications among the candidates." The
appellant and the respondent No.1, besides other applicants applied and the
respondent No.4, Revenue Divisional Officer, selected the Respondent No.1 on
the basis of a brief interview. The appellant, after unsuccessfully moving the
respondent NO.3, filed a revision petition before the Collector respondent No.
2. On hearing the parties concerned, the Collector allowed the petitioner's
claim by the judgment dated 8.2.1991 (Annexure F) holding thus:-

> In the present case whatever is the angle from it is viewed Sri. Y.
> Srinivasa Rao appears to be having better claim than Sri. J. Veeraiah Babu.

Sri Y. Srinivasa Rao passed B.Com., and he was F.P. shop dealer for a fairly
long time. The experience as F.P. shop dealer is now assessed for the purpose
of marks, but on grounds of comparison this aspect also could not be ignored
even if not taken advantage of in favour of the respective person.

The Collecter, thus, obviously did not interfere with the choice of the lower
authorities in a casual manner as is clear from his judgment wherein he has
observed that normally the orders of the lower authorities are not upset
except for special circumstances. The respondent No.1 challenged his order
before the High Court by a writ petition, which was heard and allowed by a
learned single Judge, and the Division Bench has, by the impugned judgment,
confirmed the same.

3\. Admittedly the appellant is an unemployed graduate in Commerce and has the
experience of running a fair price shop in the past, while the only
qualification claimed by the respondent No.1, is that he has passed the school
examination upto 10th class only. The impugned appointment  783 was made by
the authority after holding an interview and it is the case of the appellant
that the Revenue Divisional Officer merely enquired from him about his bio-
data without putting any further question by which the merits could have been
judged. On that sole basis the shop was allotted to the respondent.
Considering the criteria, as mentioned in the advertisement, the Collector
accepted the claim of the appellant, pointing out that the appellant was a
better candidate from every angle. The High Court has quashed his judgment by
condemning it as perverse but without indicating any reason for such a view.

4\. One of the questions, which have been raised before this Court, is that
there is no guideline indicating the nature of the interview which is said to
be the sole basis for making a choice for the settlement of the fair price
shops. In pursuance of the notice which was issued in the present special
leave petition, indicating that the matter would be finally disposed of on the
next date, the respondents appeared and a prayer was made by the State counsel
for three weeks' time to get ready on the question as to how the interview
without indicating any guideline could be validly adopted as the sole basis
for selection. Time was granted for filing an additional affidavit explaining
the situation, but no such affidavit has been filed. The learned State counsel
has, however, relied upon a number of Government orders issued in this regard
from time to time and contended that in the opinion of the State authorities
in the matter of settlement of fair price shops in the villages, which are not
as large as in towns, preference should be given to less educated persons as
they are handicapped by reason of lack of education as compared to better
qualified applicants. He developed his argument by saying that since a highly
educated person is likely to obtain a better job, he may not be depended upon
for running the shop on a permanent basis. He has relied upon the policy
decision that "only unemployed persons shall be eligible for appointment as
fair price shop dealers instead of giving preference to Co-operatives" as
mentioned in the Government Order No. 951 dated 16.5.1988. This Order, howev-
er, does not advance the case of the respondents. He has also referred to
another Government Order issued subsequent- ly which give support to his
argument that preference has to be given to less educated persons. The learned
counsel pointed out that in none of the government Orders weightage was
allowed to the educational qualifications of the candi- dates and the
advertisement (Annexure A) was incorrectly issued mentioning preference in
favour of a better educated person. The Collector should have ignored the  784
conditions mentioned in the advertisement and should have respected the choice
of the interviewing officer.

5\. It appears that the question of settlement of fair price shops in the
State of Andhra Pradesh has been the subject of controversy for some time and
from the records of the Revenue Department it is manifest that the approach
which has been adopted by the authorities has not been consistent. The non-
speaking orders of this Court dismissing many special leave petitions indicate
that a good number of cases have been brought to this Court in the past were
not entertained. We have, therefore, considered it desirable to indicate our
views on the policy adopted by the State in the light of the constitutional
provisions.

6\. The decision to prefer an uneducated person over an educated persons
amounts to allowing premium on ignorance, incompetence and consequently
inefficiency. The only fault of the appellant is to have pursued his studies
beyond 10th class. If he had discontinued his career as a student even
earlier, say after passing 7th or 8th class, he would have been running the
shop today. This clearly amounts to gross arbitrariness, and, therefore,
illegal discrimination. Pursuing this line the State will have to be going in
search of a more inefficient person and we do not know where this process
would end. If we assume that since a better quali- fied person has got a
better chance to succeed in life, an intelligent applicant who can run the
shop efficiently should be rejected and a dim witted fellow should be select-
ed. This is an absurd situation.

7\. The argument of the learned State counsel that a better qualified person
is not likely to stick to the job, is not spelt out by Government Orders. In
any event, with a view to ensure that a person not interested in running the
business may not obtain the settlement of the shop merely on the basis of his
qualifications can be taken care of by imposing appropriate conditions, say,
by restricting the choice to local inhabitants, and, or requiring furnishing
of guarantee for running the business for a number of years. We, therefore, do
not find any rationale in adopting the policy as indicated on behalf of the
respondent. So far the interview fixed as the sole criterion in the present
case according to the impugned judgment is concerned, the same in absence of a
guideline leaves the matter to the whims of the individual officer holding the
interview. The exercise of such unbridled power, will be clearly violative of
Article

14\. The policy referred to by  785 by the State counsel as contained in one
of the Government Orders and relied upon before us in support of the impugned
judgment, therefore, must held to be unconstitutional.

8\. In the circumstances, the settlement in favour of the respondent No.1 is
quashed, the judgment of the High Court is set aside and the judgment of the
Collector having the support of the advertisement in question is restored. We
expect that the State, after taking into consideration all the legal and
relevant aspects, shall expeditiously take a decision and issue an appropriate
Order dealing with settle- ment of fair price shops, and not follow the
unconstitution- al instruction relied upon before us. The appeal is accord-
ingly allowed, but in the circumstances the parties are directed to bear their
own costs.

    
    
    G.N.					  Appeal allowed.
    							 786
    
    
    
    

