

Gauhati High Court

Dharampal Satyapal Ltd. vs Union Of India (Uoi) And Ors. on 3 December, 2002

Equivalent citations: (2003) 2 GLR 358

Author: P Naolekar

Bench: P Naolekar, B Deb

JUDGMENT P.P. Naolekar, C.J.

1\. In this group of appeals, identical grievance is made by the appellants,
who are manufacturers of Pan Masala containing Tobacco. Their grievance is
that by Notification dated 8th July, 1999, the Central Government, in exercise
of its power conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 5A of the Central Excise
Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), read with subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Additional
Duties of Excise Goods of Special Importance Act, 1957 (58 of 1957) and in
pursuance of the policy decision taken by the Central Government dated
24.12.1997 held out a promise to new industries to exempt the industry set up
in the scheduled area from exemption from the excise duty. The Department of
Central Government had prematurely withdrawn concession of such exemption by
issuing a notification dated 1.3.2001. It is this notification, which is
impugned to these proceedings.

2\. Various writ petitions were filed in the High Court challenging the said
impugned notification. In the forefront, it was submitted that the Central
Government is bound by the principles of promissory estoppel to continue
excise exemption to the new industries set up for a period of 10 years as
integrated in the exemption notification from the date of establishment of the
industry and consequently, the Central Government could not have arbitrarily
withdrawn the said excise exemption prior to expiry of 10 years period
available to the industries concerned under the exemption notification and the
policy decision of the Government. The new Industrial Policy dated 24.12.1997
framed by the Government of India, after Expert Groups/Committees concretized
the initiatives to be offered and after Inter-Departmental Meetings were held
having remained in force and has not been altered by the Government, the
Ministry of Finance is incompetent to unilaterally withdraw the concessions
that was given by it in pursuance of the policy.

3\. As questions involved were identical in all these writ petitions all the
writ petitions were disposed of by the learned Single Judge by common judgment
dated 11th April, 2002, therefore, all these appeals arise out of the common
judgment of the learned Single Judge, and hence, they are being disposed of by
this common judgment,

4\. The facts briefly are that on 24.12.1997, the Government of India,
Ministry of Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion issued an
office memorandum on New Industrial Policy and other concessions in the North
Eastern Region, in the said office memorandum, it was, inter alia, stated that
in view of the continuing backwardness of North East Region, the need for a
new and synergetic incentive package was widely felt to stimulate development
of industries, and that the Government had approved the New industrial Policy
and other Concessions in the North Eastern Region. The new Industrial Policy
and other concessions so approved by the Government including fiscal
incentives to New Industrial Units and their substantial expansion. Para C-1,
which relates to fiscal incentives and is relevant for these batch of writ
appeals, is reproduced hereunder :

"C. - FISCAL INCENTIVES TO NEW INDUSTRIAL UNITS AND THEIR SUBSTANTIAL
EXPANSION :

1\. Government has approved for converting the growth centres and IIDs into a
total Tax Free Zone for the next 10 years. All Industrial activity in these
zones would be free from Income-tax, Excise for a period of 10 years from the
commencement of production. State Government would be requested to grant
exemption in respect of Sales Tax and Municipal Tax."

In this memorandum, growth centres and integrated infrastructure development
centres were to be converted into a total tax free zone for 10 years and all
industrial activity in these zones were to be free from taxes including excise
for a period of 10 years from the date of commencement of production. The
aforesaid office memorandum requested the Ministry of Finance to amend the
Rules/Notifications, etc., and issue necessary instructions for giving effect
to the decisions contained in the said office memorandum.

5\. In accordance with the Industrial Policy Decision of the Union of India,
the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, issued a
Notification No. 32/1999-CE, dated 8th July, 1999, granting New Industrial
Units, which commenced their commercial production on or after 24.12.1997 and
the existing Industrial Units, which had increased their installed capacity by
not less than 25% on or after 24.12.1997 exemption on goods cleared from units
located in the Growth Centre or Integrated Infrastructure Centre or Export
Promotion Industrial Park or Industrial Estates or Industrial Area or
Commercial Estate specified in the annexure appended to the said Notification.
The said Notification dated 8th July, 1999, is reproduced hereunder :

New Delhi, dated the 8th July, 1999 NOTIFICATION No. 32/99-Central Excise
GSR(E) - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 5A
of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), read with Sub-section (3) of
Section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance)
Act, 1957 (58 of 1957) and Sub-section (3) of Section 3 of the Additional
Duties of Excise (Textile and Textile Articles) Act, 1978, (40 of 1978), the
Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, hereby exempts the goods specified in the First Schedule
and the Second Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) and
cleared from a unit located in the Growth Centre or Integrated Infrastructure
Development Centre or Export Promotion Industrial Park or Industrial Estates
or Industrial Area or Commercial Estate, as the case may be, specified in
Annexure appended to this notification, from so much of the duty of excise or
additional duty of excise as the case may be, leviable thereon under any of
the said Acts, as is equivalent to the amount of duty paid by the manufacturer
of goods from the account current maintained under Rule 9 read with Rule
173-OC of the Central Excise Rules, 1944.

2\. The exemption contained in this notification shall be given effect to in
the following manner, namely,

(a) The manufacturer shall submit a statement of the duty paid from the said
account current to the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or Deputy
Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, by the 7th of the next
month in which the duty has been paid from the amount current.

(b) The Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, as
the case may be, after such verification, as may be deemed necessary, shall
refund the amount of duty paid from the account current during the month under
consideration to the manufacturer by the 15th of the next month.

(c) If there is likely to be any delay, in the verification, the Assistant
Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be,
shall refund the amount on provisional basis by the 15th of the next month to
the month under consideration, and thereafter may adjust the amount of refund
by such amount as may be necessary in the subsequent refunds admissible to the
manufacturer.

3\. The exemption contained in this notification shall apply only to the
following kind of units, namely,

(a) New industrial units which have commenced their commercial production on
or after the 24th day of December, 1997.

(b) Industrial units existing before the 24th day of December, 1997, but which
have undertaken substantial expansion by way of increase in installed capacity
by not less than twenty-five per cent on or after the 24th day of December,
1997.

4\. The exemption contained in this notification shall apply to any of the
said units for a period not exceeding ten years from the date of publication
of the notification in the Official Gazette or from the date of commencement
of commercial production whichever is later."

From the above notification, it is manifest that the excise exemption was to
be for a period of 10 years from the date of application of the notification
in the Official Gazette or from the date of commencement of commercial
production, whichever was later. The exemption contained in the notification
was applicable only to the New Industrial Units, which has commenced
commercial production after 24.12.1997.

6\. The appellant in WA 219/2002 (petitioner in WP(C)No. 1470/2001) had stated
in the writ petition that it set up a manufacturing plant at Arundhati Nagar,
Agartala, which is an Industrial Estate of the State of Tripura listed in the
Annexure to the Notification No. 32/1999-CE, and also set up a Pan Masala
containing tobacco unit at Bamunimaidan in Guwahati, which is an Industrial
Estate listed in the annexure to the Notification No. 32/1999-CE, and while
the unit at Agartala commenced production with effect from 29.11.1999, the
Unit at Guwahati commenced production with effect from 17.11.2000.

The appellant in WANo. 220/2002 (petitioner in WP(C) No. 1525/2001), had
stated in the writ petition that it has set up a manufacturing plant at
Arundhati Nagar, District Agartala (Tripura), which is one of the Industrial
Estates listed in the annexure to the Notification No. 32/99-CE, and the said
unit commenced commercial production w.e.f. 25.11.1999.

The appellant in WANo. 221/2002 (petitioner in WP(C) No. 1881/2001) has stated
in the writ petition that it has set up a manufacturing plant at the
Industrial Estate at Agartala, which is one of the Industrial Estates listed
in the Annexure to the Notification No. 32/1999-CE, and the said unit
commenced commercial production with effect from 8.8.2000.

The appellants in WA No. 222/2002 (petitioner in WP(C) No. 2854/ 2001) had
stated in the writ petition that they have set up a plant for manufacturing
flavoured chewing tobacco under the brand name 'Gopal Zarda' in the Industrial
Complex at Bonda, Guwahati, which is one of the Industrial Estates listed in
the Annexure to the Notification No. 32/ 1999-CE, and the said unit commenced
commercial production with effect from 2.5.2000.

7\. After setting up the plants, the appellants (except appellant/petitioner
in WP(C) No. 2397/2001) manufactured goods in the said plants and availed
exemption under the Notification No. 32/1999-CE from excise duty on the goods
cleared from the plants by first making payment of central excise duty on the
goods cleared from the plant. As per the procedure laid down, the excise duty
cleared, from the first payment of central excise duty on the goods and
thereafter getting refund of the said central excise duty from the Central
Excise Authorities. As per the procedure prescribed under the Notification No.
32/1999-CE, dated 8.7.1999, where under the manufacturers were required to
submit a statement of the duty paid from the account current to the Assistant
Commissioner, Central Excise or Deputy Commissioner of the Central Excise, as
the case may be, by the 7th of the next month in which the duty has been paid
from the account current. Thereafter, the Assistant Commissioner or Deputy
Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, after such verification,
as may be deemed necessary, shall refund the amount of duty paid from the
account current during the month under consideration to the manufacturer by
the 15th of the next month. If there is likely to be any delay in
verification, the Assistant Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of the
Central Excise, as the case may be, shall refund the amount on provisional
basis by the 15th of the next month to the month under consideration and
thereafter may adjust the amount of refund by such amount, as may be necessary
in the subsequent refunds admissible to the manufacturer. Thus, under the
notification, the excise duty paid is refundable by 15th of the next month by
the Excise Department. Under the notification, the manufacturers are required
to deposit the excise duty on goods cleared first and thereafter, the said
excise duty would be refunded back to the manufacturer under the Exemption
Notification.

8\. On 31.12.1999, the excise exemption given to the appellant's units was
withdrawn by issuance of impugned notification, where under the exemption of
Central Excise was withdrawn by Ministry of Finance from goods falling under
Chapter 21.06 - Pan Masala and Chapter 24 - Tobacco and Tobacco substitutes
which includes Cigarettes and Chewing Tobacco. However, within 17 days,
another notification was issued on 17th January, 2000 by the Central
Government, whereby exemption benefit of central excise on Pan Masala and
Tobacco was restored back. The excise benefit initially granted to the
appellant's industrial units to be established in Assam and Tripura was
further extended to different States and benefit of exemption was extended to
Meghalaya on 1.3.2000. The benefit of exemption was extended to Mizoram on
21.7.2000, to Nagaland on 28.8.2000 and Manipur on 9.11.2000. By notification
dated 22.1.2001, the benefit of exemption was withdrawn on Cigarettes. On
1.3.2001, Pan Masala containing Tobacco was brought under Chapter Heading 24
of the Central Excise Tariff. By notification No. 6/2001 dated 1.3.2001, the
benefits of exemption of central excise was withdrawn on Pan Masala containing
Tobacco and Chewing Tobacco.

9\. Aggrieved by the aforesaid notification No. 6/2001, issued on 1.3.2001,
the appellants (petitioners in the writ petitions) had challenged the action
of the Central Government before the learned Single Judge, withdrawing the
excise exemption given to the appellants.

10\. The learned Single Judge, by order dated 11.4.2002, has held that by
Office Memo dated 24.12,1997 of the Government of India, Ministry of Industry,
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, the Government clearly
announced and declared that the Government has approved for converting the
growth centers and IIDCs into a total tax free zone for the next 10 years from
the commencement of production. This announcement was made because as has been
indicated in the opening paragraph of the office memorandum dated 24.12.1997
that there was need for a new and synergetic incentive package to stimulate
development of industries in the backward North Eastern Region. The learned
Single Judge has. further held that by office memorandum dated 24.12.1997, a
promise was held out by the Government of India that all industrial activities
in the zone was to be free from excise for a period of 10 years from the
commencement of production and since the office memorandum was notified by a
notification so that new industries may come up in the N. E. Region, it was
also intended by the Government of India that the said promise would be acted
upon by entrepreneurs intending to set up new industries. The office
memorandum dated 24.12.1997 also stated that the Ministry of Finance was
requested to amend rules/notifications, etc., and issue necessary instructions
for giving effect to the decisions in the said office memorandum. Pursuant to
office memorandum dated 24.12.1997, accordingly, the Ministry of Finance,
Government of India, issued notification No. 32/1999-CE dated 8.7.1999
exempting goods cleared in units located in the growth centre of integrated
infrastructure development center or Export Promotion Industrial Park or
Industrial Estates or Industrial Area of Commercial Estate in the North
Eastern Region as specified in the Annexure to the notification from excise
duty in the manner indicated therein.

The learned Single Judge has further held that the exemption under the
notification No. 32/1999-CE has been granted to new industrial units, which
have commenced commercial production on or after 24.12.1997 and the existing
industrial units which have undertaken substantial expansion by way of
increase in installed capacity on or after 24.12.1997 indicates that the
exemption under the said notification had been granted pursuant to the promise
held out in the office memorandum dated 24.12.1997 that all industrial
activity in the zone would be free from excise for a period of 10 years from
the commencement of production. Paragraph 4 of the exemption notification No.
32/1999-CE will have to be read consistent with the promise made in the office
memorandum dated 24.12.1997 that all industrial activities in the zone would
be free from excise for a period of 10 years from the commencement of
production.

It has also been held by the learned Single Judge that the notification No.
32/1999-CE read with the office memorandum dated 24.12.1997 contains a promise
that industrial units mentioned in the said notification would enjoy the
exemption under the said notification for a period of 10 years from the date
of commencement of commercial production. The petitioners in these batch of
writ petitions have acted on the said promise by making investment in plant,
machinery, etc., and by setting up new industrial unit for manufacturing
tobacco products other than cigarettes has not been disputed by the Union of
India in their affidavit-in-opposition.

Thus, the learned Single Judge has recorded the findings in favour of the
appellants (petitioners) to the effect that the Government of India has held
out the promise that all industrial activities shall be free from excise for a
period of 10 years from the commencement of production and the appellant(s)
has/have acted upon the said promise by setting up new industry It has also
been held that the exemption under the notification dated 8.7.1999 was granted
pursuant to the industrial policy approved by the Government of India as
contained in office memorandum dated 24.12.1997, inter alia, granting
exemption from excise duty and Income-tax for a period of 10 years for all
industrial activities in the industries falling within the scheduled area.

11\. However, the learned Single Judge has recorded a finding that there was
an overwhelming and supervening public interest equity, involved in the case
and on these findings, the learned Single Judge has dismissed the writ
petitions filed by the petitioners and took a view that the appellants could
not derive any benefits on the ground of promissory estoppel, as by compelling
overriding public interest. The Central Government was justified and was well
within its power to withdraw the notification granting exemption to the
appellants' industrial units.

12\. Aggrieved by the order of the learned Single Judge, the present appeals
have been filed. It is submitted by Shri Bharat Agarwal with Shri Vinod A.
Bobde, learned counsel for the appellants, that doctrine of promissory
estoppel prevents the Government in the present case from withdrawing the
concessions. It is settled law that the Government is bound by its promise.
Only overwhelming public interest would justify going back from the promise.
Such an interest has to be established by the Government before the Court with
relevant material. Mere ipse dixit of the Government is not enough. The
respondent/Government has failed to produce any material before the Court on
the basis of which promise made to the appellants could have been withdrawn.
It is further urged by the learned counsel for the appellants that even though
the learned Single Judge has rightly held that the Central Government was
bound by the principles of promissory estoppel in the light of the policy
decision taken by the Central Government on 24.12.1997 and the notification
dated 8.7.1999 issued by it granting excise exemption to the new industries
set up in the North East Region covered by the notification dated 8.7.1999
failed to see that consequently, the notification withdrawing the excise
exemption dated 1.3.2001 was hit by principles of promissory estoppel.

13\. It is further contended by the learned counsel for the appellants that
the new Industrial Policy dated 24.12.1997 framed by the Government of India
after expert committees concretised the initiatives to be offered and after
Inter-Departmental Meetings were held, still remains in force, unchanged and
have not been altered or withdrawn by the Government and in view of this, the
Ministry of Finance was incompetent to unilaterally withdraw the concession
that was given by in pursuance of and as a consequence of the policy. The
decision taken by the Government of India has resulted in industrial policy of
24.12.1997 and any notification issued by the Government of India in exercise
of the power, it is found to be repugnant to the industrial policy shall be
bad in law. The notification dated 1.3.2001 issued by the Ministry of Finance,
Govt. of India is repugnant to industrial policy of the Government of India as
incorporated in office memorandum of 24.12.1997 and is bad in law. Learned
counsel for the appellants has placed reliance on the decision of the Supreme
Court in State of Bihar and Ors. v. Suprabhat Steel Ltd. and Ors., reported in
(1999) 1 SCC 31. On the other hand, the submission of Shri K.N. Choudhury,
learned counsel for the Union of India is that there was no promise made by
the Government to the appellants and power to grant exemption from the payment
of excise duty under Section 5A of the Excise Duties Act, which is a
legislative in character, carried with the power to modify, rescind, revoke or
to withdraw the same. Supersession or deviation of the exemption notification
in the public interest is an exercise of legislative power of the State by the
Executives and it is a power, which has been conferred by the Act itself.
Moreover, under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, the Authority, which
has power to issue a notification, has an undoubted power to rescind or modify
the Notification in the like manner.

14\. In the light of the aforesaid rival contentions, the points for
consideration are :

(a) whether the Central Government from the doctrine of promissory estoppel
was liable to be restrained from enforcing the impugned notification dated
1.3.2001 against the appellants so far the unexpired period available to them
under the earlier notification dated 8.7.1999 granting excise exemption ?

(b) whether the policy decision taken by the Central Government granting
exemption on 24.12.1997 having remained in force unchanged, the Department of
Industrial Policy and Promotion has authority and jurisdiction to bring about
change in the policy decision, taken by the Cabinet of the Central Government
?

It is now well settled by series of decisions of the Apex Court that the State
and the State authorities can be made subject to the equitable doctrine of
promissory estoppel in cases where because of their representation the party
claiming estoppel has changed its position and if such an estoppel does not
fly in the face of statutory prohibition, absence of power and authority of
the promisor and is otherwise not opposed to public interest, and also when
equity in favour of the promisee does not outweigh equity in favour of the
promisor entitling the latter to legally get out of the promise. If the
statutory authority or an executive authority of the State functioning on
behalf of the State in exercise of its legally permissible powers had held out
any promise to a party, who relying on the same has changed its position not
necessarily to its detriment, and if this promise does not offend any
provision of law or does not fetter any legislative or quasi-legislative power
inhering in the promisor, then on the principle of promissory estoppel the
promisor can be pinned down to the promise offered by it by way of
representation containing such promise for the benefit of the promisee.
Reliance is placed on the decision of Pawan Alloys & Casting Pvt. Ltd. Meerut
v. U.P. State Electricity Board and Ors., (1997) 7 SCC 251.

15\. In the office memorandum dated 24.12.1997 which has declared New
Industrial Policy and other concession in the North Eastern Region, the
Government clearly held out a promise for giving the tax incentives to new
industries by way of tax holidays or tax exemption. In view of the continuing
backwardness of the North Eastern Region, the Government felt need for a new
and synergetic incentive package or stimulate development of industries and it
was though proper that new incentive would be announced for industrial
development of the North Eastern Region as declared by the hon'ble Prime
Minister on 27th October, 1996 at Guwahati. Expert Groups/Committees were
constituted by the Ministry of Industry and the Planning Commission to
concretize the initiatives. The Government has approved for converting the
growth centres and IIDCs into total tax free zone for the next 10 years. All
industrial activities in these zones would be free from income-tax, excise,
for a period of 10 years from the commencement of production. The State
Government would be requested to grant exemptions in respect of sales tax and
municipal tax.

16\. In pursuance of the policy decision of the Central Government, a
notification was issued on 8.7.1999 where under the Industrial Units, which
have commenced the commercial production on or after 24.12.1997 and the
Industrial Units existing before 24.12.1997, but which have undertaken
substantial expansion by way of increase in installed capacity not less than
twenty-five per cent on or after 24.12.1997, were granted excise exemption as
contained in the notification. The Industrial Units set up in the scheduled
area, the exemption, so granted, was for 10 years from the date of publication
of the notification in the Official Gazette or from the date of commencement
of commercial production, whichever is later.

17\. There is no denial of the fact that the appellants have set up their
industries in the zone for which the excise exemption notifications are
applicable and spent huge amount of money for establishment of infrastructure,
entered into various agreements for carrying out the work of manufacturing
units and have, therefore, necessarily alter their position relying on
representations set up in the Policy Decision taken by the Central Government
as well as in the notification issued. This investment in setting up factory
and commencement of manufacturing process of Pan Masala, tobacco, was
undertaken relying on the representation, thinking that they would be assure
at least 10 years period granting them excise exemption in toto.

18\. The Government has also given effect to the policy decision taken by the
Central Government and the concession declared under notification dated
8.7.1999 by giving excise refund to the appellants' Units till the impugned
notification was issued by the Government. A bare reading of the policy
decision taken by the Central Government and the notification clearly
indicates that the promise was made to the appellants and they have set up the
industries in pursuance of the promise made to them. We have no hesitation in
confirming the findings arrived at by the learned Single Judge that the
Government is bound by the principles of promissory estoppel.

19\. The next question, which requires consideration, is whether the
respondents are entitled to resile from the promise and to withdraw the
concession on the ground of supervening or overriding public interest. The
Central Government in exorcise of its statutory power, had earlier decided to
grant exemption from excise duty on the goods manufactured and in exercise of
the same statutory power, it was open to the Central Government to withdraw
the said concessions on the ground of public policy and the doctrine of
promissory estoppel cannot be pressed into service for thwart such exercise by
the Government Sri K.N. Choudhury, learned counsel for Union of India arguing
on this point has placed reliance on the case of Kasinka Trading v. Union of
India, (1995) 1 SCC 275). The Apex Court was required to consider the question
whether the notification issued under Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962,
granting complete exemption from payment of customs duty to PVC resin imported
into India by manufactures of certain products requiring the said resin as one
of the raw materials, which was issued in public interest and which had stated
that it would remain in force up to the inclusive of 31.3.1981, could be
withdrawn before the expiry of the said period by fresh notification issue by
the Government in exercise of the very same power under Section 25 of the
Customs Act. The Apex Court took the view that as the said notification was
issued in public interest, it could be withdrawn even before the time fixed
therein for its operation also in public interest and while issuing such a
notification no promise can be said to have been held out or any
representation made to the importers in general on the basis of which they
could insist on the doctrine of promissory estoppel that the customs duty
exemption granted earlier by the first notification could not be reduced by
the second one.

The aforesaid decision was considered by the Apex Court itself in the matter
of Pawan Alloys & Casting Put. Ltd. (supra) and the Court has said that the
notification which was impugned, was not designed or issued to induce the
appellants to import PVC resin. Admittedly, the said notification was not even
intended as an incentive for import. The notification on the plain language of
its was conceived and issued by the Central Government being satisfied that it
was necessary in the public interest so to do. Strictly speaking, therefore,
the notification could not be said to have extended any 'representation' much
less a 'promise' to a party getting the benefit of it to enable it to invoke
the doctrine of promissory estoppel against the State. It must, therefore, be
held that the aforesaid decision had clearly proceeded on the basis that by
issuing the earlier notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act, no
promise was held out to any of the importers that the notification's life will
not be curtailed earlier. The Apex Court further held that the said decision
is not an authority for the proposition that even if a claim of exemption from
import duty was resorted to in public interest by way of an incentive for a
class of importers and even though such public interest continued to subsist
during the currency of such an exemption notification and that promises for
whose benefit such exemption was granted had changed their position relying on
the said exemption notification, it could still be withdrawn before the time
mentioned therein even though public interest did not require the said
exercise to be undertaken and even though there were subsisting equities in
favour of the promisee importers.

20\. On the facts of the present case, the decision in the case of Kasinka
Trading (supra) does not apply for the reasons given in the judgment of the
Apex Court in Pawan Alloys & Casting Pvt. Ltd. (supra), wherein it has been
held that there was no promise made and that the decision is not an authority
for the preposition that the promise may be withdrawn before the period
mentioned therein even though the public interest does not require such
exercise. The said decision, therefore, cannot be any real assistance to
proposition placed before us by the learned counsel for the respondents. In
the present case, as we have seen earlier a clear cut scheme of incentives for
new industries was put forward by the Central Government presumably so that
more and more industries could be attracted to the North East Region and
acting on that promise appellants set up their industries in the Region.

21\. In Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 398, A.M.
Ahmadi, Chief Justice as he then was, speaking for the Bench, has held that it
is not necessary for us to go into a historical analysis of the case law
relating promissory estoppel against the Government. Suffice it to say that
the principle of promissory estoppel is applicable against the Government but
in the case there is a supervening public equity, the Government would be
allowed to change its stand, it would then be able to withdraw from
representation made by it which induced persons to take certain steps which
may be gone adverse to the interest of such persons on account of such
withdrawal. However, the Court must satisfy itself that such a public interest
exists.

22\. In Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of UP (1979 ) 2 SCC
409, the law on this aspect has been emphatically laid down as under:

"It is only if the Court is satisfied, on proper and adequate material placed
by the Government, that overriding public interest requires that the
Government should not be held bound by the promise but should be free to act
unfettered by it, that the Court would refuse to enforce the promise against
the Government. The Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the
Government, for it is the Court which has to decide and not the Government
whether the Government should be held exempt from liability. This is the
essence of the rule of law. The burden would be upon the Government to show
that the public interest in the Government acting otherwise than in accordance
with the promise is to overwhelming that it would be inequitable to hold the
Government bound by the promise and the Court would insist on a highly
rigorous standard of proof in the discharge of this burden. But, even where
there is no such overriding public interest, it may still be competent to the
Government to resile from the promise on giving reasonable notice, which need
not be a formal notice, giving the promisee a reasonable opportunity of
resuming his position, provided of course, it is possible for the promisee to
restore status quo ante. If, however, the promisee cannot resume his position,
the promise would become final and irrevocable, vide Emmanuel Ayodeji Ajayi v.
Briscoe."

"4. Two propositions follow from the above analysis :

(1) The determination of applicability of promissory estoppel against public
authority/Government hinges upon balance of equity or 'public interest'.

(2) It is the Court, which has to determine whether the Government should be
held exempt from the liability of the 'promise or representation'.

In the present case the first notification exempting the customs duty on PVC
itself recites Central Government being satisfied that it is necessary in
public interest to do so. In the notification issued later, which gave rise to
the present cause of action, the same recitation is present."

23\. It is, therefore, apparent that even though it may be found that the
Government or any other competent authority had held out any promise on the
basis of which the promisee might have acted, if public interest required
recall of such a promise and such a public interest outweighed the interest of
the promisee then the doctrine of promissory estoppel against the Government
would lose its rigour and cannot be of any avail to such promisee. Once the
public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can overriding
individual equity, the principle should be applicable even in cases where a
period has been indicated. It would be competent for the Government to resile
from a promise even if there is no manifest public interest involved,
provided, of course, no one is put in any adverse situation, which cannot be
rectified. Where there is no such overriding public interest, it may still be
within the competence of the Government to resile from the promise on giving
reasonable notice which need not be a formal notice, giving the promisee a
reasonable opportunity of resuming his position, provided, of course, it is
possible for the promisee to restore the status quo ante. If however, the
promisee cannot resume his position, the promise would become final and
irrevocable.

24\. In the light of the aforesaid settled legal position, we, therefore, hold
that even though the appellants had succeeded in convincing us that earlier
policy decision taken by the Central Government on 24.12.1997, notifications
dated 8.7.1999 and 21.3.2001 did contain a clear promise and representation by
the Central Government to the prospective new industrialists that once they
established their industries in the region within the time specified, they
would be assured excise exemption on the goods manufactured for a period of 10
years from the date of commencement of commercial production, the appellants
will not be able to enforce the equity by way of promissory estoppel against
the Central Government if it is shown by the Central Government that public
interest required it to withdraw these incentives of exemption from payment of
excise duty, prior to expiry of 10 years as available to the appellants'
units. It is also to be held that even if such withdrawal by development
rebate, prior to 10 years, is not based on any overriding public interest, if
it is shown that by such premature withdrawal the appellants-promisees would
be restored to status quo ante and would be placed in the same position in
which they were prior to grant of such rebate by earlier notifications, the
appellants would not be entitled to succeed.

25\. At the very outset, we now examine the case in the light of the settled
law and we must, at once, be stated that it is not a case of the respondents
that it sought to withdraw the excise exemption made available earlier by it
to the new industries on the ground that such premature withdrawals, the
appellants-promisees would be restored the status quo ante and would be placed
in same position in which they were prior to grant of such rebate by earlier
notification. On the facts on record, it is apparent that the Central
Government has not given a reasonable opportunity to the appellants to resume
their earlier position nor it is shown by the Central Government that it is
possible for the appellants-promisees to restore the status quo ante. Once the
new industries were established the factory in the region on being assured 10
years tax holidays and acting on the same, once they had established their
industries and spent large amount for constructing the infrastructure, for
employing necessary labour and for purchasing the raw materials etc. it would
be almost impossible for them to restore the status quo ante. In all fairness,
it is not suggested by the learned senior counsel for the Central Government.
With all such withdrawal of excise due to exempt, the appellants would be able
to restore the status quo ante.

26\. In Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co, Ltd, (supra), it is held that only if
the Court is satisfied on proper and adequate material placed by the
Government that overriding public interest requires that the Government should
not be held bound by the promise and the government would resile from the
promise made. The Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the
Government, and it is for the Court to decide that the Government should be
held exempt from liability. The burden to prove such overriding public
interest would be upon the Government to show that the public interest would
be in the Government acting otherwise than in accordance with the promise, is
so overwhelming that it would be inequitable to hold the Government bound by
the promise and the Court would insist on highly rigorous standards of proof
in the discharge of this burden.

27\. Let us now examine whether case is made out by the Central Government
whereby it can be said that there exists an overriding public interest, which
requires that the Government should not held bound by the promise and should
be free to act unfettered or unmade it and could withdraw the same.

28\. An affidavit-in-opposition was filed on behalf of the respondents by Shri
Anowar Hussain, Assistant Commissioner in the Department of Central Excise,
stating therein for issuing the withdrawal of excise exemption notification
and on which reliance has been placed by the learned Single Judge in arriving
at conclusion that there was overriding, supervening public interest, which
authorizes the State Government to withdraw the excise exemption contained in
paras 13 and 21 of the affidavit-in-opposition, which are reproduced hereunder
:

"13. A thorough review was, therefore, undertaken some time in last quarter of
year 2000 inter alia in relation to the operation of the exemption with
respective products like cigarettes and other tobacco related products and it
was decided that the unintended benefits flowing to these kind of
manufacturers was thoroughly disproportionate to the benefit which the State
would get from this fiscal revenue foregone by the Centre. It was, therefore,
decided in public interest to discontinue forthwith this exemption, which
interest to discontinue forthwith this exemption, which have completely
distorted the entire working of this law in the State insofar as this product
is concerned.

21\. The said notification has been issued in public interest and specifically
withdraws benefits granted to tobacco and tobacco products. It would be
relevant to state that several factors have been taken into account to advance
public interest particularly, since tobacco products apart from being
injurious to public health, it was found that the units set up did not
generate the necessary employment as anticipated. There was the aspect of
backward and forward linkages to be considered in the context of utilization
of raw materials. When it was found that the units manufacturing tobacco
products did not advance the objects of the policy envisaged for the North
Eastern Region it was deemed in public interest to withdraw the benefits
granted to units manufacturing tobacco products. It would also be relevant to
state that while the benefits continue with regard to units manufacturing
other products, it has been withdrawn only with regard to tobacco products and
subsequently to pan masala (with tobacco) and other tobacco related products.
It is denied that the principles of estoppel applied for the withdrawal has
affected the survival of the petitioner. In any event, the investment of the
petitioner in plant and machinery is not consistent with the benefits received
by them. It is further denied that the Industrial Policy Resolution (IPR) by
itself created any legal obligation for the Government or any promise upon
which the petitioner could have acted. Policy Resolutions are mere statements
of intend of the Government and unless these followed up by requisite
notification and the respective enactments, these cannot be acted upon. Under
the provisions of Central Excise Act exemption from excise duty can be given
only in public interest. It is submitted that insofar as the exemption
contained in notification No. 32/99-CE dated 8.7.1999 stated to be available
for a period of 10 years as made out by the petitioner. It is denied that the
notification grants relief for a period of 10 years for newly established
units in specified area. The deponent would crave leave to rely on the
contents of the policy for the North Eastern Region, the notifications that
have been issued from time to time to contend that no promise as claimed by
the petitioner had been made out and in any event the withdrawal of the
benefits to the petitioner would be Justifiable in public interest."

29\. An affidavit-in-opposition has been filed in WP(C) No. 1470/2001 on
behalf of the respondent Nos. 3 and 5, the State of Assam and the Director of
Industries and Commerce, Government of Assam, wherein it has been averred that
in pursuance of the notification issued by the Government of India No. 32/99
dated 8.7.1999 granting exemption from Central Excise Duty to industries
coming up in the State, notified in the notification, for a period of 10 years
for all the products falling under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, which
includes tobacco Accordingly, the petitioner has set up a Pan Masala
containing tobacco manufacturing unit in Bamunimaidan Industrial Estate and
started commercial production on 17.11.2000. Apart from the present
petitioner, there are number of industries who set up their units in the State
of Assam after the announcement of exemption. The Government of India has
withdrawn the exemption vide Notification No. 6/2001 dated 1.3.2001 on tobacco
products. The said withdrawal of exemption will encourage the shifting of the
existing unit and will discourage other industries to invest in the State.
Withdrawal of notification of 8.7.1999 will go to defeat the very purpose of
inviting industries to invest and the industrial growth of the State. It has
been further stated that withdrawal of the notification dated 8.7.1999 has
rendered the much needed boost in the promotion of industrial growth of the
State and that the withdrawal of the notification was made without any
consultation with the State Government.

30\. In WP(C) No. 1525/2001 the State of Tripura and the Director of
Industries and Commerce, Government of Tripura, have filed a joint affidavit-
in-opposition contending therein that withdrawal of the notification by the
Government of India all of sudden granting exemption shall affect the units
already set up on the basis of the uneconomical due to remoteness and
backwardness of the Region. The existing units will be compelled to shut down
their units for which a number of workers shall be render jobless/unemployed.
All the Districts of the State of Tripura has been declared 'No Industry
District' by the Government of India and therefore continuation of the
reimbursement of excise duties in the State is very much essential for the
development of industries in the State. It has been further stated that the
Union Government did not consider at the time of withdrawal the exemption of
excise duty vide notification dated 1.3.2001 what would be the affect of such
withdrawal of such benefit in the North Eastern Region, specifically in the
State of Tripura. The new industrial policy was/is created the hopes in the
minds of the people of North Eastern State that they will be employed in near
future if the new industries are set up in their region, but due to withdrawal
of the excise benefits that hopes are again going to be dashed. The State of
Tripura wants that the benefits of excise duty provided under the new
industrial policy is required to be continued in the interest of the region as
well as State of Tripura and for the interest of expansion of source of
employment in the Region particularly in the State of Tripura. The Government
of India did not consult the State Governments of the North Eastern Region
.prior to withdrawal of the excise benefit. That the excise benefit was part
of the North Eastern Industrial Policy and while framing the policy, the State
Government of the North Eastern States were consulted. Due to withdrawal of
the benefit of excise duty, no investors will be interested to invest in the
region and as a result the region shall continue to be backward/suffer from
development and there will also be unemployment problem. It has also been
stated that the petitioner/ appellant-company has made capital investment of
about Rs. 1 crore, company also provided employment to 85 number of workers,
mostly local and the setting up the unit of manufacturing Zafrani Zarda
(Chewing tobacco) by the petitioner-company as well as their associate company
Dharampal Satyapal Limited has helped the State of Tripura in the process,
creating a climate for industrialization. Not only heavy investments are made
and direct employment generated by those companies, but they have also created
a climate by generating the direct employment and opportunities in the field
of Road Transportation, travel, housing, construction, communication and other
allied industries. The quantum of investments made in plant and machinery is
not the key factor to adjudicate upon the process of industrialization and
economic growth of the State. The key factor to determine the growth of
industrialisation is the momentum of the business activities generated.

31\. From the averments made in the affidavits filed on behalf of the
respondent Union of India, the reason for withdrawal of exemption of excise
duty appears to be that after thorough review of the exemption granted, it was
found that the unintended benefit flowing to the manufacturers of tobacco
related products was thoroughly-disproportionate to the benefit which the
State would get from this fiscal revenue foregone by the Centre and
consequently the units set up did not generate the necessary employment as
anticipated. That there was the aspect of backward and forward linkages to be
considered in the context of utilization of raw materials and when it was
found that the units manufacturing tobacco products did not advance the
objects of the policy envisaged for the North Eastern Region, the exemption of
excise duty was withdrawn by the notification dated 1.3.2001.

32\. It is apparent from the decision of the Apex Court, that it is only if
the Court is satisfied on proper and adequate materials placed by the
Government, that the overriding public interest requires that the Government
should not be held bound by the promise the Government would be permitted to
resile from the promise made, that the Court should not act on the mere ipse
dixit of the Government and it is for the Court to decide whether the
Government should be held exempt from the liability. The burden would lie upon
the Government to show that the public interest in the Government acting
otherwise than in accordance with the promise is so overwhelming that it would
be inequitable to hold the Government bound by the promise and the Court would
insist on a highly rigorous standard of proof in the discharge of this burden.

33\. Section 5A(1) was introduced on 1.7.1988 and for the first time in excise
law a statutory power was conferred to grant exemptions from excise duty in
the 'public interest'. It cannot be doubted that all tax laws are presumed to
be in the public interest because generation of revenue is essential for the
survival of the modern State. Thus when the law provides that in the 'public
interest' exemption from tax may be granted, what is contemplated in Section
5A(1) is a higher and wider public interest than mere fiscal considerations.
When the exemption is given under Section 5A(1) it presupposes the fiscal loss
to the Central Government, which decision is being taken in the public
interest. It is the public interest which was relevant to the exercise of
power under Section 5A(1) and it was reflected in the New Industrial Policy
declared on 24.12.1997 which was translated into the exemption notification in
the interests of a backward region of the Country, viz., North Eastern Region.
What was involved was the development of the region and in view of the federal
structure of governance, the Union of India rightly considered the interests
of public interest and that too in the exercise of a statutory power. The
power conferred under Section 5A(1) was exercised in the 'public interest'.
The promise consciously made in the public interest in the exercise of
statutory power can be withdrawn if there is overriding public interest over
such public interest if such public interest is placed on record by the
Government for consideration of the Court. Mere fiscal loss which has already
taken care of while granting exemption cannot be a ground for withdrawal of
exemption in the public interest and the public interest pleaded by the
Government for withdrawal cannot obviously be the loss of revenue. Nor can it
be the alleged failure of consideration such as non-fulfilment of policy
objectives in the sense that sufficient employment was not generated.

34\. No material is placed before the Court to indicate as to what are the
benefits which are not intended to be given to the industries under the
exemption policy or exemption notification, which industries have got and then
how they are disproportionate to the benefits which State would get on account
of excise exemption given to industries. There is no material placed on record
except allegations in affidavit of the respondent Union of India to indicate
what benefit was achieved by the North Eastern State after the implementation
of the policy decision, for the Court to Judge and ascertain whether the
benefit appended to the State on account of exemption do not commensurate with
the fiscal revenue loss of the Central Government There is nothing placed on
record to indicate that there was no industrial growth in the North Eastern
Region after the notification dated 8.7.1999, The Central Government has also
not produced any document to show that what was the expected employment
generation on account of exemption of excise duty nor any papers have been
produced before the Court as to whether any employment was generated after
exemption notification was issued or not. There is also no materials on record
to show that in the industries that have been set up in pursuance of the
notification issued by the Government on 8.7.1999 the raw material utilisation
was not to the expected limit considering the backwardness and forward
linkages. The Union of India has not even placed on record the material to
substantiate the reasons alleged in- the affidavit for the Court to adjudicate
upon the overriding public interest. We cannot put a blind eye to the fact
that the petitioner/appellants have put up industries which surely must have
generated some employment. Can a fact that others have not put up their
industries so as to give much employment could be a ground for withdrawal of
the exemption for the industries that have already been set up relying the
promise made by the Government. The circumstance that several others did not
put up industries so as to give employment to large number of persons would
not be a ground to withdraw the promise made by the Government to the
petitioner. The overriding and supervening interest which has to be pleaded by
the Government must be of a such magnitude and create such a compelling
necessity that a Government could be satisfied and the Court also could be
persuaded to take the view that it is better not to honour promises in order
that a higher public good is secured, the superior public interest has to be
of such nature wherein the fiscal loss is not the consideration, but the loss
of object for which the policy decision was taken itself is hampered. The
policy decision taken by the Government for granting exemption of excise duty
to the industries set up in the North Eastern Region was specifically to
stimulate the development of industries so that the region overcomes the
continuing backwardness, if the Government is able to show that the very
reason for which the policy decision is taken, viz., setting up industries in
the region, the region overcomes its continuing backwardness failed the
Government can certainly withdraw the exemption notification. The Government
cannot withdraw the Notification if the process is slow or it does not
generate revenue as expected. The reason given by the Government for
withdrawal of exemption of excise duty by issuing notification dated 1.3.2001
cannot also beheld to be for the reason which reflects an overriding and
supervening interest,

35\. It is urged by Shri Bharat Agarwal, learned counsel for the appellant
that the Central Government having taken a policy decision it is not open to
the Ministry of Finance to withdraw the concession given in pursuance of the
policy. In other words, the impugned notification dated 1.3.2001 issued by the
Ministry of Finance is repugnant to the Industrial Policy of the Government of
India as incorporated in the Office Memorandum of 24.12.1997, Reliance is
placed on the case in Suprabhat Steels Ltd. (supra). It may be appropriate to
consider the case in the light of the facts and circumstances of the present
case.

36\. The question came before the Apex Court, for consideration, was whether
the industrial units which have started production prior to 1.4.1993 and whose
investment in plant and machinery does not exceed Rs. 15 crores on 1.4.1993
would be entitled to the facilities of sales tax exemption on the purchase of
raw materials for a period of seven years from 1.4.1993 in accordance with
Clause 10.4(i)(b) of the Industrial Incentive Policy, 1993 and whether the
notification issued by the Government of Bihar dated 2.4,1994 in exercise of
power under Section 7 of the Bihar Finance Act to the extent it indicates "who
has not availed of any facility or benefit under any industrial promotion
policy" is valid as being contrary to the Policy Resolution of 1993. The State
of Bihar introduced a New Industrial Policy in 1993 and Clause 10.4 of the
said policy deals with the sales tax exemption, which runs, thus :

"10.4. Sales tax exemption on the purchase of raw materials. - (1) This
facility will be admissible to the industrial units mentioned in Annexure V in
the following manner :

(a) Industrial units coming into production between 1.4.1993 to whose
investment in plant and machinery does not exceed Rs. 15.00 crore shall be
entitled for this facility for a period of seven years from the date of
production.

(b) Such old industrial units whose investment in plant and machinery does not
exceed Rs. 15.00 crore on 1.4.1993 shall be entitled for this facility for a
period of seven years from 1.4.1993.

(2) All other industrial units shall continue to enjoy the existing facility
of purchase of raw material on concessional rate of tax as announced and made
applicable by the Sales Tax Department as before."

37\. The State Government issued a notification on 4.4.1994 in exercise of
power under Section 7 of the Bihar Finance Act, under which the old industrial
units like the respondents who had started production prior to 1.4.1993 but
whose investment in plant and machinery did not exceed Rs. 15 crore on
1.4.1993 were denied the facility of sales tax exemption on the purchase of
raw materials as those units had availed of some facilities under the prior
Policy of 1986. In other words, the units which are otherwise entitled to the
sales tax exemption on the policy decision have been denied the exemption on
the basis of the fact that those industries have taken some benefit under the
prior Policy of 1986. The notification dated 4.4.1994 issued by the State
Government was challenged in the High Court and the High Court struck down the
notification. The State of Bihar approached the Supreme Court challenging the
order passed by the High Court. While dealing with the question, the issuance
of notification under Section 7 of the Bihar Finance Act, the Apex Court held
that - "it is true that issuance of such notifications entitles the industrial
units to avail of the incentives, and benefits declared by the State
Government in its own industrial incentive policy. But in exercise of such
power, it would not be permissible for the State Government to deny any
benefit which is otherwise available to an industrial unit under the incentive
policy itself. The industrial incentive policy is issued by the State
Government after such policy is approved by the Cabinet itself. The issuance
of the notification under Section 7 of the Bihar Finance Act is by the State
Government in the Finance Department which notification is issued to carry out
the objectives and the policy decisions taken in the industrial policy itself.
In this view of the matter, any notification issued by Government order in
exercise of power under Section 7 of the Bihar Finance Act, if is found to be
repugnant to the industrial policy declared in a Government resolution, then
the said notification must be held to be bad to that extent."

38\. In the case in hand, a new Industrial Policy for the North East Region
was declared on 24.12.1997 with its synergetic package of incentives to
stimulate development of industries so that the region overcomes its
continuing backwardness. This New Industrial Policy came into existence on the
basis of the statement made by the Prime Minister on 27th October. 1996 that
new initiatives would be announced for the industrial development of the North
Eastern Region. Experts groups/committees were constituted by the Ministry of
Industry and the Planning Commission to concretize the initiatives.
Subsequently Inter-Departmental Meetings were held under the Chairmanship of
Member Secretary (Planning Commission) to consider the recommendations and
finalise the proposals. Based on these proposal Government approved the New
Industrial Policy and other concessions in the North Eastern Region, Clause C
of the said Policy deals with the fiscal incentives to New Industrial Units
and their substantial expansion reads - "The Government has approved for
converting the growth centres and IIDCs into a total tax free zone for the
next 10 years. All Industrial activity in these zones would be free from
income-tax, excise, for a period of 10 years from the commencement of
production. State Governments would be requested to grant exemptions in
respect of Sales Tax and Municipal Tax".

39\. In pursuance of this policy decision a notification dated 8.7.1999 was
issued in exercise of powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 5A of the
Central Excise Act, 1944 giving exemption in the public interest to the goods
specified in the in the First Schedule and the Second Schedule to the Central
Excise Tariff Act. 1985 and cleared from a unit located in the growth centre
or the Integrated Infrastructure Development Centre or Export Promotion
Industrial Park, etc., as the case may be specified in Annexure appended to
the notification. The exemption notification dated 8.7.1999 was issued in
regard to the new industrial units which have commenced their commercial
production on or after 24.12.1997 and the industrial units existing before
24.12.1997 which have undertaken substantial expansion by way of increase in
installed capacity by not less than twenty-five per cent on or after
24.12.1997. The exemption contained in the said notification was made
applicable for a period not exceeding ten years from the date of publication
of the notification in the Official Gazette or from the date of commencement
of commercial production. Under the notification issued new units set up after
24.12.1997 are entitled to excise duty exemption for a period of 10 years from
the date of commencement of the commercial production. It is an admitted
position that in pursuance of this notification the appellants/petitioners
have set up their industries in the Region falling under the notification and
commenced their production. Under the policy decision taken by the Government,
notification was issued giving tax exemption to the units for a period often
years from the date of publication of the notification or from the date of
commencement of commercial production, whichever is later. The Government
notification dated 1.3.2001 wherein the benefits of the Central Excise tax was
withdrawn on Pan Masala containing chewing tobacco is contrary to the policy
decision taken by the Government it is pertinent to mention the Government has
not changed nor amended the policy, the policy remains the same of declaring
the region as total tax free zone for the industries set up and commence
production on or after 24.12.1997 or which have increase in installed capacity
on or after that date. The withdrawal of excise exemption from these specified
industries by notification is contrary and repugnant to the policy of the
Government of India, The withdrawal of the tax exemption granted under the
Industrial Policy by notification dated 1.3.2001 is repugnant to the policy
decision taken by the Central Government. On the facts of the present case,
the decision rendered by the Apex Court in Suprabhat Steels Ltd. (supra)
squarely applies and withdrawal of the notification dated 1.3.2001 is bad in
law.

40\. For the aforementioned reasons stated, the Notification No. 6/2001-CE
dated 1.3.2001 is quashed and the appeals are allowed. The impugned judgment
and order dated 11.4.2002 of the learned Single Judge is set aside.

41\. The next question is, as to what relief the petitioner/appellants are
entitled to. The WP(C) No. 1470/01 was filed by the petitioner/ appellant on
5.3.2001 challenging the notification dated 1.3.2001 withdrawing the exemption
as contrary to the policy decision of the Central Government and the High
Court while issuing notice on 7.3.2001, in the interim, suspended the
operation of the impugned notification dated 1.3.2001. By the order dated
7.5.2001 the interim order so passed was modified and the Department was
directed to process the refund, but need not refund the excise duty amount
paid. In view of the aforesaid order from 7.5.2001 onwards although the
Department has started the process of calculating the actual amount to be
refunded, the actual refund has not been made as yet. We having quashed the
notification dated 1.3.2001 withdrawing the tax exemption, the appellants
would now be entitled to the refund of the excise amount which has been
deposited by them as per the notification dated 8.7.1999. Under directions
issued by this Court, the Central Excise Department was directed to process
the refund but did not refund the amount to the appellants. Thus, the amount
of excise duty paid by the appellants after 7.5.2001 must have been processed
by the Department but not refunded to the appellants. We instead of directing
the refund of the amount to the appellants the excise duty paid to the
Department after 7.5.2001 till date, we feel that it is in the fitness of
things to direct the Central Excise Department to credit this amount to the
respective accounts of the appellants concerned and the future excise duty/tax
which the appellants may be required to be paid to the Central Government may
be adjusted from this credited amount, so that the appellants as manufacture
of the goods need not pay excise duty on their goods till the entire
credit/outstanding in their respective accounts in this connection gets
exhausted. It is however made clear that from the date of this judgment the
appellants/ petitioners shall be entitled to exemption on excise duty as per
the notification dated 8th July, 1999.

