

Delhi High Court

Dr. Reckeweg And Co. Gmbh Through ... vs Mr. S.M. Sharma Managing Director ...
on 19 April, 2006

Equivalent citations: 130 (2006) DLT 16, 2006 (32) PTC 458 Del

Author: M B Lokur

Bench: M B Lokur

JUDGMENT Madan B. Lokur, J.

Page 1691

1\. The Plaintiff filed IA No. 2788/2003 under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of
the CPC for an injunction restraining the Defendants from infringing the
copyright of the Plaintiffs in the catalogue and literature pertaining to its
homeopathic medicines and also from using the alphanumeric series L-1 to L-75
in respect of homeopathic medicines. The latter grievance arises because,
according to the Plaintiffs, they have been using the alphanumeric series R-1
to R-75 for several years and by using the alphanumeric series L-1 to L-75,
the Defendants are trying to pass off their homeopathic medicines as those of
the Plaintiffs.

2\. By an ex parte ad interim order dated 7th March, 2003 the Defendants were
restrained from marketing, distributing and selling homeopathic medicines
under the ?Lords L? alphanumeric series, since the alphanumeric description of
the medicine of the Defendants and the corresponding ailment were identical to
the alphanumeric description of the medicine of the Plaintiffs and the
corresponding ailment. The Defendants were also restrained from distributing
their catalogue and literature, which are a verbatim copy of the copyrighted
catalogue and literature of the Plaintiffs.

3\. The Defendants filed IA No. 4231/2003 under Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the CPC
for vacation of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted in IA No.
2788/2003. Both these applications were heard on 3rd and 4th April, 2006 when
orders were reserved.

4\. The broad facts of the case are that Plaintiff No. 1 is a company
incorporated in Germany and has been manufacturing and marketing homeopathic
Page 1692 medicines for the last 50 years. Plaintiff No. 2 is the duly
constituted attorney of the Plaintiff and is a company registered under the
Companies Act, 1956.

5\. The Plaintiffs manufacture and market their homeopathic medicines in what
is called the ?R series? derived from the name of Plaintiff No. 1, that is,
Dr. Reckeweg. These medicines are marketed and sold as drops in the
alphanumeric series R-1 to R-75. As an example, medicine R-1 is for treatment
of a local inflammation of a catarrhal and purulent nature while medicine R-7
is for treatment of organic and functional complaints of the liver and gall
bladder. The Plaintiffs do not market in India medicine R-61 (although it is
sold elsewhere in the world) and the medicines R-8, R-15 and R-30 require
specialized equipment and so are not normally manufactured in India, although
they have a copyright in the catalogue and literature pertaining to them.

6\. The Plaintiffs have filed on record an extract from the Register of
Copyrights dated 5th May, 1999 bearing Registration No. 18231/99. This
copyright is in the catalogue pertaining to 75 homeopathic specialty
medicines. Similarly, the Plaintiffs have placed on record their copyright
Registration No. 18275/99 dated 6th May, 1999 in respect of the literature
containing the unique composition and formulation of the medicines.

7\. As per the catalogue of the Plaintiffs, medicine R-1 pertains to
inflammation drops and it is prescribed for: -

Local inflammations, acute and chronic, of catarrhal and purulent nature, with
swelling of the glands. Sudden infections and high fever with irritations of
the meninges, conjunctivas and pharynx Medicine R-7 pertains to liver and gall
bladder drops and it is prescribed for: -

Organic and functional complaints of liver and gallbladder, hepatopathy,
cholecystopathy, calculi, disturbances of the biliary secretion, hepatitis,
swelling of the abdomen, premature satiety, lack of appetite, bitter taste in
mouth, flatulence, constipation, weariness after meals, irritation,
hypochondria.

8\. The Defendants were due to launch their homeopathic specialty drops in the
alphanumeric series Lords L-1 to L-75 when the application for injunction was
filed. The medicine L-1 described in the catalogue of the Defendants also
pertains to inflammation drops and its description is absolutely identical to
what has been copyrighted by the Plaintiffs. Similarly, medicine L-7 pertains
to liver and gall bladder drops and its description is also absolutely
identical to what has been copyrighted by the Plaintiffs. Indeed, this was not
even seriously disputed by learned Counsel for the Defendants and the
injunction as prayed for by the Plaintiffs in this regard must certainly be
granted because the Defendants have bodily lifted the contents of the
catalogue of the Plaintiffs.

9\. However, during the pendency of these applications, the Defendants amended
their catalogue. As per the amended catalogue, medicine L-1 is now prescribed
for: -

Acute or chronic inflammations purulent and catarrahal in nature including
inflammation of glands associated with high fever of infections, meningitis,
pharyngities and conjuctivities.

Page 1693 Similarly, medicine L-7 is now prescribed for: -

Functional or organic complaints of the gallbladder and liver, Hepatitis,
Abdominal Swelling, Lack of appetite, Flatulence, Constipation, Bitter taste
of the mouth.

10\. The grievance of learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs, under these changed
circumstances, was three-fold.

Firstly, the amended catalogue remains substantially similar to the catalogue
of the Plaintiffs and, therefore, there is no need to file a separate
application for injunction and that the injunction already prayed for would
cover the amended catalogue as well because even the amended catalogue
infringes the copyright of the Plaintiffs.

Secondly, the medicines in the alphanumeric series L-1 to L-75 adopted by the
Defendants continue to represent the same medicines as those of the Plaintiffs
in the alphanumeric series R-1 to R-75. This alphanumeric combination, read
with the catalogue, is enough to mislead the public consuming homeopathic
medicines and it would certainly not be appropriate if unwary consumers are
misled by the products of the Defendants, which are in essence the products of
the Plaintiffs. In other words, a case of passing off was made out by learned
Counsel for the Plaintiffs.

Thirdly, the composition and formulation of the medicines prepared by the
Defendants is an exact copy of the unique composition and formulation of the
medicines prepared by the Plaintiffs and the Defendants have blindly copied
them without having independently worked or researched to arrive at those
compositions and formulations.

The submission of learned Counsel was that if all these factors are considered
cumulatively, then on an overall conspectus of the documents on record, the
catalogue for the homeopathic medicines, as well as the literature containing
the printed composition and formulation, it is quite clear that the Defendants
are acting dishonestly in proposing to market their medicines, giving it an
appearance that the medicines are those of the Plaintiffs. The intention of
the Defendants seems to be to take advantage of the goodwill of the Plaintiffs
and lure away their customers with an identical product.

11\. Learned counsel for the Defendants, on the other hand, contended that the
Plaintiffs do not have any copyright over the numerals 1 to 75 or the
alphabets and that the Defendants cannot be prohibited from using these
numerals, with or without the alphabet L or Lords L. After all, these numbers
are common numbers and can be used by anybody. With regard to the catalogue,
it was submitted that there were substantial differences between the
Plaintiffs catalogue and the amended catalogue of the Defendants, so no case
of infringement of a copyright was made out. As regards the unique composition
and formulation of the homeopathic medicines, it was submitted that there was
no specific prayer for restraining the Defendants from using the same
composition and formulation of medicines. In any case, at best, the Plaintiffs
could claim a patent in the unique composition and formulation of the
medicines but could not claim any copyright thereon. Learned counsel for the
Defendants also produced cartons of the medicinal drops manufactured Page 1694
by the Plaintiffs and the Defendants and contended that there was no visual
similarity in the two cartons and, therefore, it cannot be said that the
Defendants were guilty of passing off their goods as those of the Plaintiffs.

12\. I am of the view that the entire issue has to be looked at on broad
overall considerations and perspective and not from a narrow point of view. It
is quite natural to expect that whenever there is an attempt at infringing a
copyright or at plagiarism, the infringer or plagiarist will, more often than
not, make minor alterations and corrections here and there to deflect an
allegation of infringement or plagiarism. Therefore, if there is a word-by-
word analysis or a sentence-by-sentence analysis of the copyrighted work and
the infringing material, there are bound to be some apparent differences; but
that does not mean that the copyrighted work has not been infringed or
plagiarized.

13\. In this context, it is worth referring to Section 14 of the Copyright
Act, 1957 (the Act). This section defines 'copyright' as meaning the exclusive
right to do or authorize the doing of any act in respect of a work, such as in
the case of a literary work (for example), to make any adaptation thereof.

Section 2(a) of the Act defines 'adaptation' to mean, in relation to any work,
any use of such work involving its re-arrangement or alteration. A copyright
is said to be infringed, in terms of Section 51 of the Act, when any person,
without a license granted by the owner of the copyright or the Registrar of
Copyrights does anything, the exclusive right to do which is conferred upon
the owner of the copyright or when any person distributes for the purpose of
trade any infringing copies of that work, which would, quite naturally,
include any unauthorized or substantial adaptation thereof. This is subject to
Section 52 of the Act which lays down what shall not constitute an
infringement of copyright but that has not been pleaded by the Defendants.

14\. In the light of the above, if one looks at the catalogue of the
Plaintiffs as well as the amended catalogue of the Defendants, in the two
examples pertaining to medicines R-1 and L-1 and R-7 and L-7, the contents and
purport of both the catalogues are substantially identical, the latter being
an adaptation of the former. In fact, the Plaintiffs handed over a comparative
statement and a random comparison of the ailments for which medicines, such as
R-16 and L-16, R-23 and L-23, R-33 and L-33, R-53 and L-53, R-65 and L-65 and
R- 69 and L-69 are prescribed shows that the ailments sought to be cured by
the two sets of medicines are substantially similar. These are reproduced
hereinbelow to illustrate the point.

R-16 L-16 Migraine, nervous headaches, neuralgia of the head, indisposition
due to continuous headaches frequently resulting from an insignificant chill.
Nervous headaches, migraine, Neuralgia of the head and indisposition due to
continuous and persistent headaches.

R-23 L-23 Acute and chronic eczema, pimples, herpes, rashes, eschar.
Dermatitis, pimples rashes urticaria, psoriasis, acute and chronic eczema.

Page 1695 R-33 L-33 Epilepsy and epileptic fits. Irritation of the nerves and
convulsions. Choreo minor. Convulsive and cramps. Cramps in the thighs.
Epileptic cramps, convulsions, cramps in thighs, epilepsy of any origin.

R-53 L-53 Acne vulgaris, pimples, suppurative diseases of the skin, eczema and
dermatitis. Pimples, Eczema, dermatIT is and acne vulgaris.

R-65 L-65 Psoriasis vulgaris, psoriasiform eczema. Recommended for psoriasis
vulgaris, psoriasisiform eczema.

R-69 R-69 Intercostal neuralgia. Very useful for intercostal neuralgia.

15\. Obviously the Plaintiffs cannot have a copyright on the numerals or the
alphabets individually (perhaps even collectively) but when the alphanumeric
combination is used for a medicine which cures an ailment, and a similar
alphanumeric combination is used for another medicine which also cures a
substantially similar ailment, and if the alphanumeric combination and
substantial similarity in the ailment persist for medicine after medicine and
for ailment after ailment and in the same sequence, then it is just not
possible to entertain a belief that it is a coincidence. Had there been a
harmonized system of classification, then the Defendants might have been able
to make out an arguable point, but that is not the case set up by the
Defendants. Since the entire ?R series?, ailment by ailment and medicine by
medicine has been substantially copied or adapted by the Defendants in their
amended catalogue, the intention of the Defendants is obviously to plagiarize
the work of the Plaintiffs, which they have done, and this indicates a
dishonest intention on their part.

16\. Add to this the fact that the Plaintiffs have left out medicine R-61 and
it is found that the Defendants have also left it out. Similarly, some
specialized homeopathic medicines have been left out such as R-8, R-15 and
R-30, which the Plaintiffs are either not manufacturing or have difficulty in
manufacturing - again, it is found that these have also been left out by the
Defendants in their catalogue. Surely, this cannot but be deliberate and
smacks of a rather crude attempt at plagiarizing the catalogue of the
Plaintiffs in violation of their copyright.

17\. In so far as the unique composition and formulation of the medicines are
concerned, a few examples would show that the Defendants have completely
copied the unique composition and formulation of the medicines manufactured by
the Plaintiffs. For example, the composition and formulation of medicine R-1
and L-1 and medicine R-7 and L-7 read as follows: -

R-1 Apis mell. D4, Barium chlorat. D6, Belladonna D4, Calcium jodat. D4, Hepar
sulf. D12 Kalium bichrom. D4, Marum verum D6, Mercur. Subl. corr. D5,
Phytolacca D4.

Lords L-1 Apis Mell 4x, Bar. chlor. 6x, Belladonna 4x, Calc. lod. 4x, Hepar
Sulph. 12x, Kali Bichromicum 4x, Teucrium Marum Virum 6x, Merc, Corr. 5x
Phytolacca 4x.

Page 1696 R-7 Carduus mar. D2, Chelidonium D2, Cholesterinum D6, Colocynthis
D6, Lycopodium D4, Nux vomica D4.

Lords L-7 Carduus Marianus 2x, Chelidonium Maj. 2x, Cholesterinum 6x,
Colocynthis 6x, Lycopodium 4x, Nux vomica 4x.

18\. Interestingly, not only are the ingredients of the medicines the same but
even the potency of the ingredients is the same. In other words, what the
Defendants are trying to tell the consumers of these homeopathic medicines is
this: whatever you expect to get from the Plaintiffs, the exact same is
available from the Defendants not only will the same medicine be available for
the same ailment but that that medicine will have the same composition and the
same potency as the medicine of the Plaintiffs, who say that this can be
verified from a complete comparison of their literature and the literature of
the Defendants, and not only from the above examples.

19\. The Plaintiffs can, having published the unique composition and
formulation, claim a copyright in the literary work, which they have, and they
have also got a copyright bearing No. 18275/99 for that literary work.
Therefore, it can safely be said that by completely copying the literature,
the Defendants have violated even this copyright of the Plaintiffs.

20\. The final submission of learned Counsel for the Defendants was that the
cartons in which they sell their medicines are very different from the cartons
of the Plaintiffs, in as much as the design and colour combination are
different and while the Plaintiffs use the alphanumeric ?R series?, the
Defendants use a visually and phonetically different alphanumeric ?Lords L
series?. The contention in this regard was that if the matter has to be looked
at in a broad perspective, then it cannot be said that the Defendants are
passing off their goods as those of the Plaintiffs, since a consumer of
medicines can straightway notice the dissimilarity in the cartons and thereby
identify the two products as coming from different sources.

21\. In support of this argument, learned Counsel for the Defendants relied
upon Dr. Reckeweg and Co. v. Dr. Wellmans Homeopathic Laboratories Ltd. 2002
(25) PTC 98. In that case, the defendant was restrained from infringing the
copyright of the same plaintiff relating to the literature, but on the basis
of a lack of phonetic similarity between the ?R series? manufactured by the
plaintiff and the ?WR series? manufactured by the defendant, as well as the
difference in the cartons, an injunction was declined on the ground that no
case of passing off was made out by the plaintiff.

22\. Before dealing with this contention, it is appropriate to see the prayer
made by the Plaintiffs in their injunction application, which is to the effect
that the Defendants and those acting under them be restrained ?from passing
off by using the code nos/identification nos/serial nos L-1 to L-75 in respect
of Homeopathic medicines or any other trade mark/code nos which may be
identical with and/or confusingly or deceptively similar to the reputed,
established and legally protected trade mark/code nos R-1 to R-75 of the Page
1697 plaintiffs. In view of the prayer made, the issue of similarity or
dissimilarity in the cartons does not at all arise for consideration. The
limited prayer made by the Plaintiffs is that the Defendants be restrained
from using the alphanumeric ?L series? on their cartons, thereby seeking to
pass off their goods as those of the Plaintiffs.

23\. In this connection, the views of the Supreme Court, as expressed in
Cadila Health Care Ltd., v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. are important. The
Supreme Court observed in paragraph 18 of the Report: - ?As far as this Court
is concerned, the decisions in the last four decades have clearly laid down
that what has to be seen in the case of a passing off action is the similarity
between the competing marks and to determine whether there is likelihood of
deception or causing confusion

24\. On the issue of what is likely to cause confusion, the Supreme Court (in
paragraph 33 of the Report) while dealing with medicinal preparations observed
as follows: -

While dealing with cases relating to passing off, one of the important tests
which has to be applied in each case is whether the misrepresentation made by
the defendant is of such a nature as is likely to cause an ordinary consumer
to confuse one product for another due to similarity of marks and other
surrounding factors. What is likely to cause confusion would vary from case to
case. However, the appellants are right in contending that where medicinal
products are involved, the test to be applied for adjudging the violation of
trade mark law may not be at par with cases involving non-medicinal products.
A stricter approach should be adopted while applying the test to judge the
possibility of confusion of one medicinal product for another by the consumer.
While confusion in the case of non-medicinal products may only cause economic
loss to the plaintiff, confusion between the two medicinal products may have
disastrous effects on health and in some cases life itself. Stringent measures
should be adopted specially where medicines are the medicines of last resort
as any confusion in such medicines may be fatal or could have disastrous
effects. The confusion as to the identity of the product itself could have
dire effect on the public health.

25\. Applying this law to the facts of the case, what has to be seen is
whether, by using the alphanumeric ?L series? in place of the ?R series? of
the Plaintiffs, are the Defendants passing off their medicines as those of the
Plaintiffs. I would think so. A difference in the cartons merely proves their
facial dissimilarity, but this is not a good enough argument against an
allegation of passing off in respect of medicines which, as the Supreme Court
tells us, fall in a different category altogether. A stricter approach should
be adopted while applying the test to judge the possibility of confusion of
one medicinal product for another by the consumer.? From the point of view of
the consumer, what is of primary concern is the medicine that he is purchasing
for the treatment of a particular ailment. In this respect he cannot afford to
be misled. Page 1698 Therefore, it may or may not matter to him whether the
carton is the same or different what certainly does matter is the medicine
that he is purchasing. In this case, what the Defendants are essentially doing
is selling the medicines of the Plaintiffs, though in a different carton and
with a different alphanumeric series. On these basic facts, it cannot
seriously be said that the Defendants are not guilty of any wrongdoing. If
they are, then they should be prohibited from doing so.

26\. In Cadila the Supreme Court cautions us to also keep in mind an unwary
purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. If this is done,
as it should be, such a customer is likely to be misled into purchasing an ?L
series? medicine instead of an ?R series? medicine because there is no
difference between the two in terms of the curative effect vis-?-vis the
ailment and its symptoms, regardless of the carton. In this context, it is
worthwhile to repeat what the Supreme Court says (again in Cadila) that the
consumer?s lack of knowledge of English and other surrounding factors must
also be kept in mind - ?While examining such cases in India, what has to be
kept in mind is the purchaser of such goods in India who may have absolutely
no knowledge of English language or of the language in which the trade mark is
written and to whom different words with slight difference in spellings may
sound phonetically the same. While dealing with cases relating to passing off,
one of the important tests which has to be applied in each case is whether the
misrepresentation made by the defendant is of such a nature as is likely to
cause an ordinary consumer to confuse one product for another due to
similarity of marks and other surrounding factors.? (Paragraph 33).

On the basis of the various tests laid down by the Supreme Court, I find it
difficult to come to any conclusion other than that a consumer of homeopathic
medicines is quite likely to be confused between the ?L series? medicines of
the Defendants and the ?R series? medicines of the Plaintiffs given their
alphanumeric similarity as also their similarity in terms of curative effect
vis-?-vis the ailment and its symptoms.

27\. In so far as the decision relied upon by learned Counsel for the
Defendants is concerned, that decision dealt with the dissimilarity of the
competing cartons and whether, under those circumstances, no case of passing
off was made out. In the present case, learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs has
proceeded on the basis that the cartons are dissimilar; the contention was
that nevertheless, an unwary consumer of the medicine would be misled by the
use of a similar alphanumeric combination for similar medicines for similar
ailments. This contention is well founded for the reasons already given above.

28\. It is also worth noting that even according to the Defendants the use of
numerals for homeopathic medicines ?is a common practice in the relevant class
of trade.? In paragraph 4 of their written statement (under the heading
?Preliminary Objections?) the Defendants state -

4\. Under Section 122 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1957 this
Hon'ble Court would take into consideration the usage of the trade concerned
as a material fact including the legitimate use of trademark/name by other
persons. In the instant case, as a trade usage the homeopathic medicines are
being sold under the numerical series that Page 1699 is a particular numerical
indicating a specific medicine for an ailment. The use of numerals to specify
and identify a specific preparation with a specific composition and curative
strengths for specified ailments is a common practice in the relevant class of
trade. In order to avoid confusion as to the source of the preparations, the
individual manufacturers tend to adopt and use the numerals with a distinct
prefix such as R or L normally derived from the trading name and style of the
manufacturers. The numerals per se have no trademark significance as they are
being used to indicate particular preparations and not any particular
manufacturer. The use of same numerals in respect of the same preparation by
the different manufacturers is in practice and for the convenience of the
purchasers.

This is all the more reason for the Defendants not to use the same numeral as
the Plaintiffs for the same medicine and for the same ailment. In fact,
learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs submitted that his clients could not have
any possible objection if the Defendants used a different numeral for a
similar medicine. The use of the same numeral would clearly mislead an unwary
consumer, given the trade practice, and the intention of the Defendants seems
to be, quite clearly, to cash in on the goodwill of the Plaintiffs.

29\. Consequently, I am of the view that merely because the cartons of the
medicinal products of the Plaintiffs and the Defendants are not the same, but
since what is contained in the cartons is an identical product in more ways
than one, and the medicines are identified by their alphanumeric combination,
the Plaintiffs have made out a prima facie case for the grant of an
injunction. Obviously, irreparable damage will be caused to the reputation of
the Plaintiffs if the Defendants? medicines are sold as those of the
Plaintiffs. The balance of convenience clearly lies in favor of the prayer of
the Plaintiffs being granted, particularly from the point of view of the
consumers of homeopathic medicines.

30\. Under the circumstances, the Defendants are restrained from using the
alphanumeric series L-1 to L-75 in respect of the same medicinal product for
the same ailment as per the catalogue of the Plaintiffs since this would
amount to a clear infringement of their copyright. Similarly, the Defendants
are restrained from using the unique composition and formulation of the
Plaintiffs in its homeopathic medicines bearing the alphanumeric series R-1 to
R-75 since this would also amount to an infringement of their copyright. The
cartons used by the Defendants are not similar to the cartons used by the
Plaintiffs and, therefore, the Defendants may use those cartons for its
medicines but those cartons should not display the alphanumeric series L-1 to
L-75.

31\. The application of the Plaintiffs for the grant of an injunction is
allowed while the application of the Defendants for vacation of the injunction
is dismissed. The Plaintiffs will be entitled to costs of Rs. 10,000/-. 32.
Needless to say, any expression of opinion is only for the purposes of
disposal of the pending applications, and will not bind the parties in the
trial of the case.

Certified that the corrected copy of the judgment has been transmitted in the
main Server.

