

Bombay High Court

Urmi Juvekar Chiang vs Global Broadcast News Limited, A ... on 7 June, 2007

Equivalent citations: 2008 (2) BomCR 400, 2007 (109) Bom L R 981, MIPR 2007
(2) 223, 2008 (36) PTC 377 Bom

Author: A Khanwilkar

Bench: A Khanwilkar

ORDER A.M. Khanwilkar, J.

Page 0984

1\. Heard Counsel for both the sides at length. Perused all the relevant
documents and pleadings on record.

Page 0985

2\. This order will dispose of prayer for ad-interim relief claimed by the
Plaintiff during the pendency of the Motion.

3\. The Plaintiff claims to be a reputed script-writer having scripted various
films and various television serials. She also claims to have authored and/or
directed and/or produced various documentary films. In substance, the
grievance of the Plaintiff against the Defendants, on the basis of which,
interim relief is claimed against them is on two grounds

(a) Breach of Confidentiality by the Defendants.

(b) Infringement of copyright of the Plaintiff.

Both these causes are in relation to reproduction and adaptation in the format
of the proposed television programme created by the Plaintiff titled "Work in
Progress", by the Defendants by making the television programme by title
"Summer Showdown" and proposing to broadcast the same on the CNN-IBN
television news channel.

4\. Some of the facts common to both these grounds as asserted in the Plaint
are that, in or about November 2005, the Plaintiff conceived an idea of a
reality television programme, which would follow citizens from different parts
of the Country as they took the initiative and set out to solve a civic
problem of their choice in their locality. The Plaintiff asserts that the
programme would follow the chosen protagonists through the quagmire of
bureaucracy and conflicting interests and destructive attitudes as they tried
to solve a civic problem of their choice. That the programme would highlight
the fight of the protagonists on many fronts and in the end, even if the
protagonists failed to solve the problem, the programme would highlight that
the protagonists had tried to solve the civic problem. The Plaintiff
transformed her idea into a concept and prepared a detailed concept note
containing the concept, the form, the treatment, the problems, etc. (Exhibit A
to the Plaint). The said concept note prepared by the Plaintiff of the
television programme titled Work in Progress was registered with the Film
Writers Association, Mumbai on 9th November 2005. The Plaintiff asserts that
the concept note is a literary work within the meaning of Section 2(o) of the
Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Act); and that the
Plaintiff has the exclusive right to reproduce the said literary work and to
make a television programme based on the same in terms of Section 14(c) of the
Act. Insofar as the interaction with the Defendants, it is stated that in or
about March 2006, the Plaintiff first approached Ms.Rasika Tyagi of the
Defendants and on 10th March 2006 sent an e-mail thanking Ms.Rasika Tyagi for
agreeing to look at the Plaintiffs concept. In the said communication,
Plaintiff has recorded that the proposed programme was a news based television
show titled Work in Progress. In response to this communication, Ms.Rasika
Tyagi vide her e-mail dated 21st March 2006 replied to the Plaintiff that she
has gone through the concept and the same sounds interesting. She further
informed the Plaintiff to make it convenient to meet her whenever she is in
Delhi to discuss the concept further. On the basis of this representation, the
Plaintiff contacted one Mr.Arjun Gaurisaria, the Managing Director of Black
Magic Movies Private Limited, who agreed to act as a producer of the
television programme titled Work in Progress. Besides, the Plaintiff visited
Ms.Rasika Tyagi of the Defendants and had a detailed discussion with her Page
0986 and also made a detailed presentation of her concept as further developed
and also the production plan. The Plaintiff asserts that the further developed
concept note and the production plan (Exhibit D) were also her "literary
work". The same were discussed threadbare with the Defendants, but the
Plaintiff was informed that the budget proposed by her for the proposed
television programme was on the higher side. Thereafter, Plaintiff discussed
with Mr.Arjun Gaurisaria on the budget of the proposed television programme
titled "Work in Progress" and the same was revised. Accordingly, Mr.Arjun
Gaurisaria on behalf of Plaintiff, on 19th April 2006 sent an e-mail to
Ms.Rasika Tyagi of the Defendants informing her that the cost of the programme
has been reworked and the budget has been brought down to
Rs.10,50,000/-(Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand) per week, which seems to be a
manageable figure. It is recorded in the said communication that in case of
any issue on the budget, that can be discussed in a meeting, for which he
would come down to Delhi on the given date. It is stated that there was no
reply to this communication from Ms.Rasika Tyagi, as a result, on 16th May
2006, Arjun Gaurisaria sent another e-mail to Ms.Rasika Tyagi of the
Defendants stating that if the budget of the proposed programme is found
expensive, other alternatives could be explored. In the meantime, the
Plaintiff had also discussed the production plan with one Mr.Ramchandran
Srinivasan, the Executive Producer. It is stated that the said Ramchandran
Srinivasan was intimately known to Mr.Rajdeep Sardesai, Editor-in-chief of the
Defendants. Accordingly, said Ramchandran Srinivasan on behalf of the
Plaintiff sent an e-mail on 24th July 2006 referring to the Plaintiffs
proposal and mentioning that the budget of the proposed programme can be cut
down. He also forwarded the budget as well as the original concept of the
Plaintiff to Rajdeep Sardesai of the Defendants on e-mail. It is then stated
that Arjun Gaurisaria happened to meet Rajdeep Sardesai of the Defendants on a
flight and took that opportunity to discuss about the proposed programme and
the effectiveness of the programme "Work in Progress". Apropos the said
discussion, on 3rd February 2007, Arjun Gaurisaria again e-mailed the
developed concept note and the production plan of the television programme
Work in Progress to Rajdeep Sardesai of the Defendants. As no reply was
received to this e-mail communication, Arjun Gaurisaria sent another reminder
on 15th February 2007 to Rajdeep Sardesai enquiring as to whether he could
find time to go through the material sent earlier. This was followed by
another e-mail communication dated 17th February 2007 sent by Arjun Gaurisaria
to Rasika Tyagi of the Defendants enquiring with her whether they can start
discussing and doing initial ground work for programme Work in Progress.
Thereafter, Arjun Gaurisaria sent another e-mail on 14th April 2007, both to
Rajdeep Sardesai and Rasika Tyagi of the Defendants pointedly asking them
whether they were interested in taking the programme Work in Progress.
Plaintiff asserts that instead of receiving any response from the Defendants,
the Plaintiff was shocked to see promotion of a programme titled "Summer
Showdown" on the CNN-IBN Television Channel, which attempts to showcase five
families across five cities, trying to find solutions to civic woes that come
with Summer. This came to the knowledge of the Plaintiff on 19th May 2007,
although the said programme titled "Summer Showdown" was already being aired
from 14th May 2007. To know about more details of the said programme, Page
0987 the Plaintiff visited the website of the Defendants and viewed the
promotional videos promoting the television programme "Summer Showdown" that
were available on the website "ibnlive.com" of the Defendants.

5\. It is stated that the Defendants television programme "Summer Showdown"
also follows citizens from different parts of the country as they take the
initiative and set out to solve a civic problem of their choice in their
locality. It is further stated in Para 15 of the Plaint that the videos
suggest that the television programme "Summer Showdown" follows the chosen
protagonists through the quagmire of bureaucracy and conflicting interests and
destructive attitudes as they try to solve a civic problem of their choice. It
is further stated that the videos suggest that the television programme
"Summer Showdown" also highlights the fight of the protagonists on many
fronts. In Para 16 of the Plaint, it is then stated that on comparison of the
Plaintiffs developed concept note of the television programme "Work in
Progress" with the Defendants television programme "Summer Showdown", clearly
indicates that the Defendants have copied the television programme of the
Plaintiff in all material aspects. It is also asserted that the changes made
by the Defendants such as having five families as protagonists instead of four
individual protagonists, is a cosmetic change. Further, the basic idea and the
format of the Plaintiffs television programme have been slavishly and
flagrantly copied and/or reproduced by the Defendants. The Plaintiff asserts
that this has been done with dishonest and fraudulent intention and that the
Plaintiff had not granted any licence to the Defendants to make any television
programme using her concept note. This clearly amounts to infringement of
copyright of the Plaintiff in the literary work being the concept note of the
television programme Work in Progress within the meaning of Section 51 of the
Act.

6\. The Plaintiff then asserts that inspite of the exclusive right of the
Plaintiff in her literary work being the concept note (original and developed)
and production plan of the television programme "Work in Progress" , which was
disclosed in confidence to the Defendants, who thereupon used it to develop it
for their own commercial exploitation, de hors the Plaintiff, being the
originator of the concept. It is stated that when the Plaintiff had submitted
her concept note of the production plan to the Defendants, it was done with
specific understanding that the Defendants would either accept or reject it.
Instead, the Defendants by using the information imparted to them in strict
confidence by the Plaintiff, breached the confidence reposed by her in them,
by misappropriating the concept of the Plaintiffs television programme and by
announcing the launch of the television programme on similar lines, which has
resulted in inflicting huge loss and damage to the Plaintiffs television
programme by luring away the potential sponsors. In substance, the Plaintiff
asserts that the concept note and the production plan of the television
programme "Work in Progress" was information of the type that could be treated
as confidential and could not have been used by the Defendants without the
Plaintiffs licence.

7\. Having considered the rival submissions and the pleadings and documents on
record, I shall consider the points in issue in the context of the rival
submissions and pleadings hereinafter. The principles relating to the action
of Page 0988 breach of confidence have been subject matter of catena of
decisions. The Division Bench of our High Court in the case of Zee Telefilms
Ltd. and Anr. v. Sundial Communication Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. , on analysing the
decisions on the subject has expounded that the law of breach of confidence is
different from law of copyright. The law of breach of confidence, is of breach
of trust or confidence-"is a broader right" than proprietary right of
copyright. In para 10 of this decision, the Court went on to observe as
follows:

10\. The law of confidence is different from law of copyright. In paragraph
21.2 (page 721), the learned author has pointed out that right to restrain
publication of work upon the grounds, that to do so would be breach of trust
or confidence, is a broader right than proprietary right of copyright. There
can be no copyright of ideas or information and it is not infringement of
copyright to adopt or appropriate ideas of another or to publish information
received from another, provided there is no substantial copying of the form in
which those ideas have, or that information has, been previously embodies. But
if the ideas or information have been acquired by a person under such
circumstances that it would be a breach of good faith to publish them and he
has no just case or excuses for doing so, the Court may grant injunction
against him. The distinction between the copyright and confidence may be of
considerable importance with regard to unpublished manuscripts/works
submitted, and not accepted, for publication or use. Whereas copyright
protects material that has been reduced to permanent form, the general law of
confidence may protect either written or oral confidential communication.
Copyright is good against the world generally while confidence operates
against those who receive information or ideas in confidence. Copyright has a
fixed statutory time limit which does not apply to confidential information,
though in practice application of confidence usually ceases when the
information or ideas becomes public knowledge. Further the obligation of
confidence rests not only on the original recipient, but also on any person
who received the information with knowledge acquired at the time or
subsequently that it was originally given in confidence.

8\. The principles on which the action of breach of confidence can succeed,
have been culled out as

(i) he (Plaintiff) had to identify clearly what was the information he was
relying on;

(ii) he (Plaintiff) had to show that it was handed over in the circumstances
of confidence;

(iii) he (Plaintiff) had to show that it was information of the type which
could be treated as confidential; and

(iv) he (Plaintiff) had to show that it was used without licence or there was
threat to use it. The Division Bench in Para 13 of the same decision has
culled out the above said principles relying on the decision in the case of
CMI Centers for Medical Innovation GMBH and Anr. v. Phytopharm PLC reported in
1999 Fleet Street Page 0989 Reports 235. It is further noted that at
interlocutory stage, the Plaintiff does not have to prove (iii) and (iv)
referred to above, as he will at the trial. But the Plaintiff must address
them and show that he has atleast seriously arguable case in relation to each
of them.

9\. There can be no doubt that the Plaintiff in this case would be entitled
for grant of ad-interim relief, if the Plaintiff were to make good the
abovesaid requirements in relation to the action of breach of confidence. As
is mentioned earlier, the cause set out in the Plaint is founded on two
grounds. Firstly, on the breach of confidentiality and secondly, on
infringement of copyright of the Plaintiff. The distinction between the two
actions has been expounded by the Division Bench of this Court in Para 10 in
the case of Zee Telefilms (supra) reproduced above. To put it differently,
even if the Plaintiff were to make out arguable case in relation to the claim
of breach of confidentiality, she may succeed in getting the interim relief.
For that, we will have to bear in mind four principles referred to earlier. As
observed by the Division Bench, at the interlocutory stage, the Plaintiff will
not be required to prove (iii) and (iv) as she will at the trial. But it will
be sufficient if she is able to address them and show that at least seriously
arguable case in relation to each of them exist. Indubitably, this principle
will have to be borne in mind moreso for considering the prayer for grant of
"ad-interim relief" during the pendency of the Motion for interim relief.

10\. The first aspect is to ascertain whether the Plaintiff has identified
clearly what was the information she was relying on. Going by the averments in
the Plaint, there can be no doubt as to the nature of information in relation
to which breach of confidentiality is alleged. The Plaintiff has made it clear
more than once that she was alleging breach of confidentiality in relation to
"her concept" and the "concept note" regarding programme titled "Work in
Progress", which was originally conceived and articulated by her in the
initial concept note and also the further developed concept notes and the
production plan thereof. Indeed, the issue of civic woes may be in public
domain, but the concept developed by the Plaintiff for a reality show on the
subject of the programme "Work in Progress" is a novel one. Besides, going by
the averments in the Plaint and the contemporaneous record, there is no doubt
that the Plaintiff passed on information regarding "her concept" and the
format of the programme in "concept notes" to the Defendants in confidence.
The case made out in the Plaint in this behalf is substantiated by
contemporaneous record such as the communication exchanged in this behalf
between the parties. The Plaintiff was interacting with the Defendants with
clear assumption that they would either accept or reject the proposed
programme or work of the Plaintiff titled "Work in Progress". In no case, the
Defendants would use the said information themselves or allow the same to be
used without the licence of the Plaintiff.

11\. The next question is: whether the Plaintiff has shown that the subject
information was of such type which could be treated as confidential? Even on
this issue, there should be no difficulty in accepting the claim of the
Plaintiff. Indeed, the Defendants would contend that no confidentiality can be
claimed in relation to matters in public domain. For, the issue of civic woes
was in public domain and no confidentiality can be claimed in respect Page
0990 of the idea to solve the same. Moreover, the breach of confidentiality
can be invoked only if it is a case of use of a script, characterisation,
sequences, dialogues. The argument though attractive, clearly overlooks the
principle expounded by the Division Bench of our High Court in the case of Zee
Telefilms (supra). In the first place, the Plaintiff is not claiming
confidentiality in relation to the issue of civic woes as such, but the claim
in confidentiality is in relation to "her concept -of the programme" and the
manner of spreading awareness of the civic problems. The Plaintiff is claiming
confidentiality also in relation to her "concept notes and production plan"
pertaining to programme "Work in Progress". For the purpose of action in
breach of confidentiality, it is well established position that a party can
claim confidentiality even in relation to a "concept or idea", unlike in a
claim or action in infringement of copyright - if the Plaintiff were to
satisfy the specified parameters to succeed in such action. In Para 16 of the
decision, the Division Bench went on to advert to the exposition in the case
of Fraser v. Thames Television Ltd. reported in 1983(2) All.E.R. 101. In that
case, breach of confidence was claimed in relation to an idea of a television
series and which idea was "disclosed orally" and in confidence to the
Defendants. The Defendants used that idea to create television series with
other actresses. The Court held that the Court would prevent person who had
received idea expressed "in oral" or written form from disclosing it for an
unlimited period or until that idea becomes general public knowledge. In the
present case, the grievance of the Plaintiff is not confined to exploitation
of her concept or idea of staging a television reality show to highlight the
woes of a common man in respect of civic problem, but also in relation to the
format, the treatment, the problems and the production plan articulated by the
Plaintiff in the original concept note and further developed concept notes and
production plan for the programme "Work in Progress". All these matters were
undoubtedly of the type which ought to be treated as confidential. The fact
that such information was received by the Defendants is not in dispute. It is
also evident that the Plaintiff has not given licence to the Defendants to use
the said information in any manner. It is also not possible to assume or infer
that the said concept and the production plan of programme "Work in Progress"
had become a general public knowledge. Even in a case where there is threat to
use such information passed on in confidence, the Plaintiff would be entitled
for protection. The Plaintiff would surely be entitled to protection even
where the same (information) in fact has been used wholly or in part, with a
threat of continued user thereof but also in case of threat to use it in
posterity by the person to whom such information is given.

12\. Incidentally, it is not the case of the Defendants that the information
made available to them by the Plaintiff was not handed over in the
circumstances of confidence as such. No such plea can be countenanced in the
fact situation of the present case. The argument of the Defendants that the
Plaintiff cannot succeed unless they were to assert and prove that the concept
note was handed over by the Plaintiff to Defendant No.1 with any express or
implied term for the confidentiality of the Agreement. This argument will have
to be stated to be rejected in the fact situation of the present case. In my
opinion, from the materials on record, the Plaintiff has succeeded in making
good all the four criteria for considering grant of ad-interim relief in Page
0991 relation to the action of breach of confidentiality. The Plaintiff has
also relied on another decision which has bearing on the issue relating to
action of breach of confidentiality. That decision is, in the case of Anil
Gupta and Anr. v. Kunal Das Gupta & Ors. of the Delhi High Court reported in
2002 (97) Delhi Law Times 257. In fact, Paragraphs 27 and 29 of this decision
have been extracted with approval in the Judgment of Zee Telefilms (supra) of
the Division Bench of our High Court with approval. In Anil Guptas case
(supra), the Court has adverted to the decision in Talbot v. General
Television Corporation Pvt. Ltd. reported in 1981 R.P.C.1, and then went on to
observe that the Law of Trade Secrets by Robert Dean take into consideration
that the word novel is sometimes used simply to mean previously unknown but
its more common meaning is that of inventiveness, or that of the information
is unique, akin to "manner of manufacture". It has further observed that
whether it is described as originality or novelty or ingenuity or otherwise,
there must be some product of the human brain which suffices to confer a
confidential nature upon the information. The Court then referred to the
exposition in the case of Fraser v. Thames Television (supra), which reads
thus:

Clearly a claim that the disclosure of some information would be a breach of
confidence is not to be defeated simply by proving that there are other people
in the world who know the facts in question besides the man as to whom it is
said that his disclosure would be a breach of confidence and those to whom he
has disclosed them.

The Court then extracted the dictum in the case of Terrapin v. Builder Supply
Company, which postulates that the essence of law on breach of confidentiality
is that whatever the origin of it may be, is that a person who has obtained
information in confidence is not allowed to use it as a spring-board for
activities detrimental to the person who made the confidential communication,
and spring-board it remains even when all the features have been published or
can be ascertained by actual inspection by any member of the public. The Court
also went on to observe in Para 39 that if such confidential information is
going to be used in competition with the Plaintiff, it is not merely a matter
of compensation in terms of money. It is useful to reproduce Para 27 of the
decision which reads thus:

27\. In the modern day, when the small screen has taken over the earlier means
of mass communication like radio, idea/concept/script of a broadcaster has
wider potentiality of capitalising revenue and if that idea/concept or script
is not protected then in a given case, a person who has conceived an idea to
be translated into the reality TV show which could be key to its success with
audience then channels with their enormous resources could always be in a
better position to take the idea/theme/concept from any author and then
develop at their own end and the original author of the concept will be left
high and dry. In appropriate cases interlocutory injunction may be issued
restraining such breach of confidentiality of the theme, concept or scripts
otherwise it would be catastrophic for the television industry. One has to
bear in mind that persons who create an idea/concept or theme which is Page
0992 original, laws must ensure that such like people are rewarded for their
labour. A concept for reality show on television was given to the company,
which in this case is the defendants. Creator provides raw material to the
entertainment industry, themes or concepts originates from the person who has
conceived the same, protection is vital for the functioning of the industry.
Otherwise authors of the ideas who are individuals, their ideas can be taken
by the broadcasting companies or channels owning companies and the persons who
has conceived the same, would be robbed of its labour....

13\. Reliance was also placed by the Plaintiff on the decision of the Madras
High Court in the case of The Daily Calendar Supplying Bureau, Sivakasi v. The
United Concern and lastly, on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of
Midas Hygiene Industries P.Ltd. and Anr. v. Sudhir Bhatia and Ors. reported in
2004 (28) PTC 121 (SC). In Para 5 of this decision, the Apex Court has
observed that the law on the subject is well settled. In that, in case of
infringement either of Trade Mark or of Copyright, normally, an injunction
must follow. Mere delay in bringing action is not sufficient to defeat grant
of injunction in such cases. It is further observed that the grant of
injunction also becomes necessary if it prima facie appears that the adoption
of the Mark was itself dishonest. In the fact situation of the present case,
if the Plaintiff were to succeed in establishing the fact that the Defendants
have misused the information made over to them in confidence without the
licence of the Plaintiff, it would necessarily follow that the attempt of the
Defendants was nothing but dishonest. Suffice it to observe that the Plaintiff
has made out more than seriously arguable case in relation to the ground of
breach of confidentiality and would therefore, be entitled for the ad-interim
relief in terms of prayer clauses (a) and (b) of the Motion.

14\. That takes me to the second ground on which the Plaintiff is claiming
order of injunction against the Defendants. It is the case of the Plaintiff
that the Defendants by their act of commission and omission have infringed the
copyright of the Plaintiff relating to her television programme "Work in
Progress". Going by the pleadings, it is not possible to accept the argument
of the Defendants that the Plaintiff was claiming infringement of copyright in
relation to the abstract concept or idea of the programme as such. However, on
fair reading of the Plaint as a whole, it is seen that the grievance of the
Plaintiff is of infringement of copyright in relation to the original concept
note articulated by her and the further developed concept note and the
production plan of the stated programme. Those were the literary work of the
Plaintiff in relation to the television programme "Work in Progress". It is
seen that the concept of Plaintiff in relation to television programme titled
"Work in Progress" has been registered with the Film Writers Association,
Mumbai as back as on 9th November 2005. The Plaintiff made over said concept
note to the Defendants. In fact, it cannot be disputed that the Plaintiff made
over further developed concept note of the said programme and the production
plan detailing the format, the treatment, the problems, etc. to the Defendants
in Page 0993 or about March-April 2006. In such a situation, the question that
will arise for consideration is: whether the Defendants have copied or
reproduced the said work in any material form to make any film in respect of
that work (Plaintiffs work) or have done adaptation thereof? The concept note
as well as the further developed concept note and the production plan, it
cannot be disputed, can be described as literary work of the Plaintiff in
relation to which there was existing copyright in her favour. Reproduction or
adaptation of that work in any material form or any substantial part thereof
by the Defendants would clearly attract the action of infringement of
copyright. For considering such claim, it is well established that the Court
will not enter into hypercritical and meticulous scrutiny but go by the broad
observations and impressions of an average viewer. The Court will have to
ascertain whether there has been reproduction, copy or adaptation of the work
of the Plaintiff or any substantial part thereof. For that, the striking
similarities in the two works will have to be examined. According to the
Defendants, the programme aired by the Defendants tilted as "Summer Showdown"
is in no way comparable to the work of the Plaintiff. There are marked
dissimilarities in both the works. Those dissimilarities articulated in the
reply affidavit filed before this Court reads thus:

S.No.

Summer Showdown:

Work in progress:

1

Families facing essentially summer related problems are featured.

The concept note visualizes individuals having faced a civic problem and
taking initiative to resolve it.

2\. The families do not necessarily have a solution to their problem.

The individuals should already have a proposed solution.

3\. The selection of the families was done on the basis of already existing
contacts of reporters and through research. The families need not meet any
criteria, except for facing a civic problem. The families were put through a
simple screening test before being selected.

The selection of individuals is on the basis of whether the individual has
sufficient initiative to resolve a civil issue and whether he already has a
reasonable plan for resolving the issue.

4\. The civic problem is required to be brought to the attention of the
concerned civic authority.

The individual need not necessarily approach the civic authority for
resolution of his problems. He or she may resolve the problem by approaching
local resident's welfare association, industrial house, etc.

5\. The civic authority's responsiveness plays a crucial role in this show and
is continuously being monitored.

The civic authority is presumed to be an antagonist to the initiative of the
individual. The individual's actions and reactions to various antagonistic
agents is crucial to the show.

6\. Reaction of civic authority has not been dramatized in its series. We are
doing it in reality and will see the Page 0994 reaction of the authority. Not
presume them as antagonistic and find its own solution, like 'Work in
Progress' will do. So, the claim of alleged literary work of the Plaintiff
being copied has not been made out.

The text of the Plaintiff's concept note very clearly lays down the script of
what will happen in an ANTAGONIST -PROTAGONIST fashion. This already predicts,
in writing, the reaction of the civic authority and people with conflicting
interests as being antagonistic.

7\. Aired 5 days in a week.

2-3 minutes story on one family from one city on one day of the week.

Conceived to be aired once a week - 60 minutes episode (Week that was)

8\. Each day assigned to a different city.

Each episode features the four individuals

9\. Macro level problems of the kind that plague the entire city. Addressing
broader infrastructural issues. One family facing a civic problem and
approaching the concerned civic authority for resolution of the problem. Thus,
the solution is likely to affect the city at that macro level. Perhaps even at
the level of the whole city. EG: power, flooding, sound pollution, etc. Micro-
level problems and tackle them not only with authorities but also with other
citizens, local associations, etc. EG: not having a zebra-crossing at the
main-road, stray dogs. So the specific solution being proposed is at the level
of that locality for that particular problem.

10\. No screening of participants for intention/sincerity.

Screening of participants for intention/sincerity.

11\. The 'Summer Showdown' show just brings to light a real incident with
minimum interference by the channel. CNN-IBN is trying to show how easy or
hard it is in this day and age to get your problem resolved through a civic
body. No coverage of the families' emotions, no interviews of their friends
and family members to find out what they are going through.

The concept note visualizes a show being high on building drama and tension,
continuously assessing the trials and tribulations of the individual as well
as the antagonistic agents.

12\. If unsuccessful, the concerned civic authority' head is proposed to be
brought to task. No chance to keep working at it and come back later on the
show.

Even if unsuccessful, no concept of having lost. Each individual is to be
appreciated on the basis of the efforts made. There is no spirit of
competition, and no comparison, conscious or unconscious, proposed to be made
between the participants. It is a collective loss or a collective victory.

15\. On the other hand, the Plaintiff has asserted in the Plaint to which
reference has already been made in the earlier part of this Order that the
Defendants television programme "Summer Showdown" also follows citizens from
different parts of the country as they take the initiative and set out to
solve the civic problems of their choice in their locality. Besides, the
programme of the Defendants even follow the chosen protagonists through the
quagmire of bureaucracy and conflicting interests and destructive attitudes as
they Page 0995 try to solve civic problem of their choice. Similarly, the
programme of the Defendants also highlights fight of the protagonists on many
fronts. According to the Plaintiff, on comparison of the developed concept
note of the television programme "Work in Progress" with the Defendants
television programme "Summer Showdown", it definitely shows that Defendants
have copied the programme of the Plaintiff in all material aspects. The
changes brought about in the programme of the Defendants are only cosmetic
ones. The Plaintiff asserts that the television programme of the Defendants
has slavishly and flagrantly copied and/or reproduced the Plaintiffs work
without licence of the Plaintiff and that conduct of the Defendants was
clearly dishonest and fraudulent. In the Exhibit appended to the rejoinder
affidavit filed before this Court, the Plaintiff has articulated the striking
similarities in the two works in following terms:

S.No.

Work in Progress:

Summer Showdown:

1\. The program is not news.

The program is not news.

2\. It is a pre-recorded program where there may be off the screen
interference. The show is therefore not live either.

It is a pre-recorded program where there may be off the screen interference.
The show is therefore not live either.

3\. Participants are screened as set out in the concept note.

Participants are screened (However, the details of such screening are
deliberately not disclosed by the defendants)

4\. Concept: A reality show in which across the country in four cities one
individual each try to solve a civic problem of their choice. This effort is
captured on camera. A reality show. The emphasis on participating in the civic
process.

Concept: CNN IBN showcases in a reality show five families (instead of four
individuals) across five cities who have resolved to solve a civic problem of
their choice.

5\. The individuals interact with civic authorities The families interact with
civic authorities as well whilst finding a solution for the civic problem
chosen by them. The civic authorities are described as antagonists since they
are on the other side required to address the problems.

whilst finding a solution for the civic problem chosen by them.

6\. Suggested Problems to be dealt with: Roads, drainage, water, health,
protection of monuments, education, animal protection. Sample episodes for the
purposes of understanding also set out in the concept note.

Problems being dealt with: Though the program states that the problems being
dealt with are related to the summer, surprisingly the problems dealt with are
water (Bangalore), drainage/flooding (Bombay), traffic/roads (Kolkatta) health
and garbage (Chennai)

7\. Episode 1: Introduction of protagonists and the civic problem they decide
to try and solve. This episode highlights the reasons (emotional, personal)
for choosing that particular civic problem and introduces the family members
Page 0996 as well as friends. The episode urges viewers to watch the following
episode to see what happens next.

Episode 1: Introduction of the protagonists and the family. The reasons behind
taking up the issue. The episode urges viewers to watch the following episode
to see what happens next.

8\. The duration of this effort is 30 days i.e. about four weeks.

The duration is four weeks i.e. 28 to 30 days.

9\. Episode 2: Shows what the protagonists journey is going to be. Details of
the forces against solving of the issue and actions taken are shown.

Episode 2 : Protagonists begins his effort. His actions.

10\. The ticking clock is uses The ticking clock is used to as a motif to show
that the time is running out.

show that the time is running out.

11\. Identification of the week and day for the viewer to capture the sense of
time.

Day and week label appears on screen.

12\. The concept of using daily 2/3 mins segment. These daily capsules were to
deal with individual protagonist's course of action on a daily basis.
Mentioned in all written concept notes as well as the visual presentation and
correspondence.

The show is a daily 2/3 minutes capsule.

13\. Anchor based show at the end of the week for 60 mins .

An anchor introduces each episode after giving a recap and ends the show after
the clipping of what the family has done. Program though is just the daily
capsule aforementioned with a proposed end of the month live show with all the
families and civic authorities.

14\. .Discussed the possibility of changing the number of protagonists as well
as the program duration to make it financially viable until the concept picks
up.

Used part of the format. Only daily capsules and not the weekly show.

15\. No spy/hidden cameras are used and wherever the camera cannot be taken
into a civic authority office (for example) the cameraman waits outside.

No spy/hidden cameras are used and wherever the camera cannot be taken into a
civic authority office (for example) the cameraman waits outside.

16\. Voice overs are used for commenting on the proceedings of the day.

Voice overs are used for commenting on the proceedings of the day.

17\. The assistance of an NGO though not mandatory was possible to be sought.

For eg.: The assistance of an NGO was proposed in Chennai. (As set out in the
First Affidavit on page 105)

18\. At the end of four weeks a final show featuring all participants.

At the end of four weeks a final show featuring all participants.

19\. Broadcasting platforms suggested: Web (which includes Broadband), Blogs,
Newspaper, Radio.

Broadcasting platforms:

Broadband, blogs.

16\. Suffice it to observe that in the present case in relation to the ground
under consideration, the grievance is not one of infringement of mere idea or
an abstract thought. On the other hand, the Plaintiff asserts that she had
Page 0997 developed or expressed her idea into various concept notes,
including production plan which are appended to the Plaint. In other words,
the grievance of the Plaintiff was one of infringement of such literary work
of the Plaintiff by the Defendants in respect of the programme titled "Work in
Progress". Here, it may be useful to advert to the exposition in Copinger and
Skone James on Copyright, 14th edition. In Para 2-05, it is observed as
follows:

No copyright in ideas. Copyright is a property right, but copyright law is
concerned, in essence, with the negative right of preventing the copying of
material. It is not concerned with the reproduction of ideas, but with the
reproduction of the form in which ideas are expressed. "Ideas, it has always
been admitted,... are free as air." Copyright is not a monopoly, unlike
patents and registered designs, which are. Thus, if it can be shown that two
precisely similar works were in fact produced wholly independently of one
another, there can be no infringement of copyright by one of the other. The
position is that, if the idea embodied in the plaintiffs work is sufficiently
general, the mere taking of that idea will not infringe. If, however, the idea
is worked out in some detail in the plaintiffs work and the defendant
reproduces the expression of that idea, then there may be an infringement. In
such a case, it is not the idea which has been copied but its detailed
expression.

17\. Reliance is also placed by the Defendants on the exposition in Paragraphs
3-10 of the same book, which read thus:

Protection afforded by copyright in a literary work. It is often stated that
there is no copyright in ideas. There are two aspects to this statement, the
first of which has been discussed above, namely that it is not the concern of
copyright enactments to protect ideas unless and until the ideas have found
expression in the form of a work of a category recognised as deserving of
protection. The second aspect is the corollary of the first, that once the
ideas have been expressed in the form of a work, it is the form of expression
which is the subject of protection, not the ideas, which themselves may be
freely extracted from the work and absorbed and used by others to produce
their own works, so long as the form of expression of the work is not also
taken. In this respect, however, it is to be noted that the form of expression
of a literary work does not mean only the text in which that work is written;
it may include the selection and arrangement in a particular order of
incidents, whether factual or fictional.

The same considerations apply to literary works whose principal purpose is to
communicate news, and indeed it is often stated that there is no copyright in
news. This is perhaps not an accurate way of applying the general principle
referred to above. The fact that the content of a literary work is news does
not prevent that work from being capable of protection by copyright. But
again, what is protected is the form of expression of that content. The
information itself, as information stripped of its particular form of
expression, may be freely used, as with any other literary work.

Page 0998

18\. In the first place, the two works are not news items but reality shows.
More over, in the present case, the Plaintiff is questioning the action of the
Defendants of reproduction of the "format" in which the ideas were expressed
by the Plaintiff in her concept notes articulated from time to time and the
production plan in relation to programme titled "Work in Progress". It is not
the case of the Plaintiff that mere idea of the Plaintiff has been infringed,
but it is the specific case of the Plaintiff that her idea had found
expression in the form of detailed concept notes and the production plan
relating to the programme "Work in Progress". That has been substantially
reproduced by the Defendants in material form in several aspects which results
in infringement of her copyright in that programme. It will be useful to
straightaway advert to the leading decision of the Apex Court in the case of
R.G.Anand v. Delux Films and Ors. . In Paragraph 46 of this decision, after
considering the gamut of the case law on the subject, the Apex Court
elucidated the propositions emerging from different authorities as follows:

46\. Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various
authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following
propositions emerge:

1\. There can be no copyright in an idea, subject-matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendry facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is
confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the
author of the copyrighted work.

2\. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendants work is nothing but a literal imitation of
the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to
violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the copy
must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion
that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.

3\. One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there
has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and
gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
of the original.

4\. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so
that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.

5\. Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.

Page 0999

6\. As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved
by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the
case law discussed above.

7\. Where, however, the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage
play by a film producer or a Director the task of the plaintiff becomes more
difficult to prove piracy. It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has
a much broader perspective, wider field and a bigger background where the
defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents vie a colour and
complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has
expressed the idea. Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a
totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original
play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.

19\. Thus understood, to answer the claim of the Plaintiff for grant of ad-
interim relief, it will have to be ascertained whether the work of the
Defendants is similar in material and substantial aspects with that of the
Plaintiff. While examining this, as noted by the Division Bench of our High
Court in Zee Telefilms (supra), it will have to be borne in mind that "it is
enough that substantial parts were lifted; no play right can excuse wrong for
showing how much of his work he did not pirate". This quotation is extracted
from the case of Sheldon v. Metro Goldwyn Pictures Corporation reported in
1993 (81) F 2nd 49. The standard to be applied, therefore, is not to compare
the two works with hypercritical and meticulous scrutiny but from the stand
point of the observations and impressions of an average viewer. As presently
advised, there are striking similarities in the work of the Plaintiff as that
of the work of the Defendants. The programme is not news, it is a reality show
(programme). That is the stand now taken by the Defendants on affidavit.

20\. It is a different matter that when the Notice of Motion was moved before
the Vacation Judge of this Court on 23rd May 2007, representation was made on
behalf of the Defendants through their Counsel that the Defendants were
displaying a three minute "news clipping" which can neither be termed as
reality show nor the same is based upon the concept note of the Plaintiff. The
Defendants informed this Court that, in fact, their programme was a live
programme. Indeed, a praecipe was moved on behalf of the Defendants
immediately on 24th May 2007, calling upon the same Vacation Judge to clarify
the statement of the Counsel of the Defendants recorded in the order dated
23rd May 2007. The Defendants wanted it to be clarified that the Defendants
had submitted that their programme was not a reality show based upon the
concept of the Plaintiffs claim in the Suit, inasmuch as the term reality show
is a very wide generic term. With regard to the other statement of the
Defendants recorded in the same order (dated 23rd May 2007) that, in fact the
programme telecast by the Defendants was a live programme; the Defendants
wanted even that statement to be changed to be read as their programme was in
fact an earlier recording of events. This praecipe was considered by the same
Vacation Judge on 24th May 2007 and the Court has noted that there was no
ambiguity or any clerical error in its earlier order which required to be
corrected. The request of the Defendants of speaking to the minutes of the
earlier order was expressly rejected by observing that Page 1000 there was no
merit in the application. It follows that, an incorrect statement was made on
behalf of the Defendants before the Court in relation to the material facts,
on 23rd May 2007. Nevertheless, the Court went on to observe that the earlier
order was without prejudice to the rights and contentions of both the parties.
In this backdrop, grievance was rightly made on behalf of the Plaintiff that
because of such incorrect statement of fact made on behalf of the Defendants,
the Court did not grant any ad-interim relief on 23rd May 2007 itself. That
was the negative injunction secured by the Defendants from the Court by
misrepresentation of material facts. According to the Plaintiff, although the
Defendants programme "Summer Showdown" was aired on and from 14th May 2007,
Plaintiff became aware about the infringement and breach on 19th May 2007, and
immediately rushed to file the present suit which, in turn, was prepared on
21st May 2007 after collecting the basic documents, which became available to
the Plaintiff and it was moved for ad-interim relief on 23rd May 2007. It is
not necessary for me to elaborate on this matter any further for the present.
Suffice it to observe that the programme which is being telecast by the
Defendants is not a news item but a reality show, which is strikingly
comparable with the work of the Plaintiff.

21\. Indeed, the Defendants have stated that the programme "Summer Showdown"
was conceived in-house around March-April 2007 as a reality show comprising
families in metros dealing with problems related to Summer, but was later on
modified to a certain extent. The Defendants may be given benefit of having
conceived an in-house programme "Summer Showdown" around March-April 2007 as a
reality show comprising families in metros dealing with "problems related to
Summer". However, if they intended to modify that programme, the modification
ought to be in the context of the original theme of problems during Summer.
Whereas, the form and contents of programme "Summer Showdown" which has been
relayed by the Defendants, as is rightly pointed out by the Plaintiff, is the
same as the programme of the Plaintiff "Work in Progress"; namely, a reality
show in which across the country in four cities, one individual each try to
solve a civic problem of his/her choice. The emphasis of the reality show was
on participating in civic process. Whereas, the modified programme "Summer
Showdown" showcases a reality show in which five families (instead of four
individuals) across five cities, who have resolved to solve a civic problem of
their choice. There is only a cosmetic change brought about. For, instead of
individuals in four cities, it is five families across five cities. The
Plaintiffs work focussed on problems such as roads, drainage, water, health,
protection of monuments, education, animal protection, etc. The Defendants
programme though titled as "Summer Showdown", also relates to the civic
problems such as water, drainage/flooding, traffic/roads, health and garbage.
The striking similarities in the two works have been elaborated by the
Plaintiff in the rejoinder affidavit to which reference has already been made
in the earlier part of this Order. What is noticed is that substantial part of
the work of the Plaintiff has been lifted in the programme of the Defendants
titled "Summer Showdown". The argument of the Defendants of the
dissimilarities pointed out by them, to borrow the words of the learned Judge
Hand in his Judgment in the case of Sheldon (supra), is only an excuse for
showing how much of Plaintiffs work Defendants did not pirate. Although the
first point noted by the Defendants Page 1001 is that the families facing
essentially summer related problems are shown in their programme. However,
from the material available on record, it is seen that the main theme of the
Plaintiff in her work relating to programme "Work in Progress" has been
substantially lifted and borrowed. The matters such as difference in selection
process, the families or for that matter of period of airing the programme
during the week or a given date, or screening of participants or that it is
not anchor-based and the like highlighted by the Defendants are of no avail.
Those changes are only cosmetic ones.

22\. To get over this position, it was argued on behalf of the Defendants that
in fact, the assertion in the Plaint do not spell out material facts to
maintain action of infringement of copyright against Defendants. In any case,
there is no cause of action to proceed against the Defendants. This technical
arguments will have to be stated to be rejected. I have already observed in
the earlier part of this Order that the Plaintiff has spelt out the relevant
facts which, result in infringement of copyright. The Plaint will have to be
read as a whole. In any case, the Plaintiff has brought on record in
Paragraphs 15 and 16 how the Defendants have fraudulently copied the work of
the Plaintiff. Assuming that the specific case regarding similarities of the
two works has not been spelt out by the Plaintiff in the Plaint, the
Defendants have no manner of doubt about the case made out by the Plaintiff
against them. Obviously, therefore, in the reply affidavit filed to oppose the
Motion, the Defendants have meticulously dealt with several aspects on the
merits of the work and highlighted the dissimilarities in the two works. The
Plaintiff on the other hand in the rejoinder has re-iterated the position
stated in the Plaint and has also elaborated on how and in what manner the
Defendants have indulged in reproduction and adaptation of the Plaintiffs
programme "Work in Progress". The similarities pointed out by the Plaintiff
are more striking. The dissimilarities pointed out by the Defendants are
trivial and insignificant to answer the point in issue. It is apparent that
the theme in the Plaintiffs work in material form and substantial part thereof
has been lifted and reproduced and adapted in the work of the Defendants.
Suffice it to observe that the impression after going through both the works,
viewed in the perception of an average viewer, is that, the Defendants work is
based or taken from the original work of the Plaintiff though titled as
"Summer Showdown".

23\. Counsel for the Defendants would rely upon the decision of our High Court
in the case of Star India Pvt. Ltd. v. Leo Burnett (India) Pvt. Ltd. reported
in 2003 (27) PTC 81 (Bom.). The exposition in this decision is in the context
of the script of two films which were different. No portion of the dialogues
or scenes were common. Suffice it to observe that the Court was considering
the claim of copyright in relation to the film/sound recordings and not of
literary, dramatic or artistic work. In that case, the learned Judge was
conscious of this position and has thus observed at Page 94 that ".....A
narrow copyright protection is accorded to a film/sound recordings than for
literary, dramatic or artistic work. The reason perhaps could be that they
have to be original to satisfy the test of copyrightability, whereas the
requirement of originality is absent for claiming copyright in cinematograph
films/sound Page 1002 recordings". In the present case, however, the grievance
is that the concept note, further developed concept note and the production
plan which spell out the format, the treatment, the problems, etc.,
articulated by the Plaintiff which was her original literary work in relation
to programme "Work in Progress", have been lifted and substantial part thereof
has been reproduced and adapted by the Defendants in their programme titled
"Summer Showdown".

24\. Counsel for the Defendants would then rely on the decision of the Court
of Appeal of Newzealand in the case of Green v. Broadcasting Corporation of
New Zealand reported in (1989) RPC (No.16) 469. For the factual matrix of the
present case and view that I have already expressed in the earlier part of
this Order, which is following the exposition of our Apex Court and the
Division Bench of our High Court including the decision of the Delhi High
Court, it is not necessary to elaborate further on this decision.

25\. The argument of the Defendants that there can be no copyright in the
theme of citizen activism towards civic problems and the said theme cannot be
considered to be original or entitled to copyright protection in favour of the
Plaintiff exclusively, would have been valid only if this Court were to find
that treatment, format, structure, expression and presentation of the
programme "Summer Showdown" was materially dissimilar and do not resemble to
the literary work of the Plaintiff. However, on the finding recorded earlier,
this argument will not take the matter any further for the Defendants.
Similarly, the argument of the Defendants that they were already running a
show titled "Citizen Journalist" since December 2005. The said show covered
stories where citizens have raised their concern and voice for bringing about
positive change through their efforts, such as through making an application
under the Right to Information Act or by making a film or by gathering support
from his neighbourhood towards addressing a common cause. Even this claim of
the Defendants will be of no avail on the finding recorded that the programme
tilted "Summer Showdown" has striking similarities with the literary work of
the Plaintiff in relation to programme "Work in Progress".

26\. There is substance in the argument of the Plaintiff that the plea taken
by the Defendants in the reply affidavit is, to say the least, afterthought
and to create gloss so as to mislead the Court. There is substance in the
argument of the Plaintiff that at no stage Rasika Tyagi had conveyed to the
Plaintiff that the Defendants were already broadcasting similar show in the
name of Citizen Journalist. There is no contemporaneous record to support this
position. On the other hand, the response of Rasika Tyagi to the Plaintiff
belies this position. Rasika Tyagi in her communication showed interest in the
concept of the programme of the Plaintiff. There is also substance in the
argument of the Plaintiff that nothing prevented the Defendants to file
affidavit of Rasika Tyagi or for that matter, of Rajdeep Sardesai to dispute
the factual matrix indicating their involvement during negotiations as stated
by the Plaintiff before this Court. It is not the case of the Defendants that
their abovesaid two representatives were not available for affidavit. In such
a case, adverse inference should be drawn against the Defendants. In Paragraph
(b)(v) of the reply affidavit, it is asserted that Rasika Tyagi had
communicated to the Plaintiff that her proposal is rejected. There is nothing
to support this position. This claim of the Defendants, to say the least, is
afterthought. In Page 1003 fact, the claim of the Defendants is belied by the
subsequent conduct of the Defendants representative Rajdeep Sardesai who
entertained the request of considering the Plaintiffs proposal which was much
latter in point of time. Rajdeep Sardesai is the editor-in-chief of the
Defendants. If the Defendant had already rejected the proposal of the
Plaintiff, there was no reason for the Defendants representative to entertain
the proposal of the Plaintiff. In Paragraph b(ix) of the reply affidavit, it
is asserted that Rajdeep Sardesai was not aware of Ramchandran Srivinavasans
connection with the Plaintiff. In the first place, affidavit of Rajdeep
Sardesai is not filed. In any case, this plea is in utter disregard of the
contents of the communication sent by Ramchandran Srinivasan to Rajdeep
Sardesai which clearly mentions that the Plaintiff was his friend and had
pursued proposal through Rasika Tyagi earlier. In fact, Rajdeep Sardesai
entertained the more detailed concept note and the production programme titled
"Work in Progress" as recently till February 2007. The claim of the Defendants
that they have conceived in-house programme "Summer Showdown" around March-
April 2007 as a reality show comprising families in metros dealing with
problems related to summer, even if accepted, that does not take the matter
any further. For, the Defendants have eventually come out with the programme
which departs from the theme of the title "Summer Showdown" but is ascribable
to the theme of the programme of the Plaintiff titled "Work in Progress". The
Defendants have advisedly stated in Paragraph c(viii) of the reply affidavit
that the original theme of the programme "Summer Showdown" was subsequently
modified to certain extent based on the research of the reporters. This excuse
does not take the matter any further for the Defendants.

27\. The Counsel for the Defendants had argued that it is not possible to
discern the actual grievance of the Plaintiff whether it is in relation to
infringement of concept or of literary work or artistic work. This argument is
canvassed in the context of the comparison made by the Plaintiff regarding the
appearance of Clock. According to the Defendants, reproduction or copying of
clock, at best, would be infringement of artistic work and not of literary
work. This argument is devoid of any substance. As has been mentioned earlier,
the grievance of the Plaintiff is not one of infringement of idea or concept,
nor is that of infringement of artistic work. The complaint of the Plaintiff
is specific to infringement of copyright in relation to her literary work of
concept notes articulated by her from time to time and the production plan in
relation to programme titled "Work in Progress".

28\. Taking overall view of the matter, I have no hesitation in accepting the
argument of the Plaintiff that the Defendants have indulged in infringement of
copyright of the Plaintiff in relation to her original literary work of
programme titled "Work in Progress".

29\. Accordingly, in my view, Plaintiff is entitled to ad-interim relief also
on the ground of infringement of copyright of Plaintiffs literary work in
relation to programme titled "Work in Progress".

30\. In the circumstances, ad-interim relief in terms of prayer clauses (a)
and (b) of the Notice of Motion as prayed for is granted which read thus:

a. That pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit it is absolutely
just, necessary and proper that the Plaintiff is entitled to an order and Page
1004 injunction of this Honble Court restraining the Defendants by themselves,
its Directors, servants, agents and associate concerns/firms from in any
manner whatsoever infringing the copyright of the Plaintiffs in the original
literary work being the concept note of the television programme Work in
Progress, by directing or making or copying or reproducing the same or
publishing or broadcasting or otherwise exploiting the work by making and
broadcasting the television programme Summer Showdown, without the Plaintiffs
consent so as to infringe the copyright of the Plaintiffs in the original
literary work being the concept note of the television programme Work in
Progress;

b.That pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit it is absolutely
just, necessary and proper that the Plaintiff is entitled to an order and
injunction of this Honble Court restraining the Defendants by themselves, its
Directors, servants, agents and associate concerns/firms from in any manner
whatsoever breaching the confidential information imparted by the Plaintiff
and contained in the concept note of the television programme Work in
Progress, by directing or making or copying or reproducing the same or
publishing or broadcasting or otherwise exploiting the work by making and
broadcasting the television programme Summer Showdown, without the Plaintiffs
consent and/or license, so as to breach the confidential information imparted
by the Plaintiff and contained in the concept note of the television programme
Work in Progress.

31\. The above relief will operate till the disposal of the Notice of Motion.
Notice of Motion be placed for hearing on 23rd July 2007. In the meantime, it
will be open to the parties to exchange pleadings and file the same in the
Registry not later than 16th July 2007. Needless to observe that the Motion
will be considered on its own merits in accordance with the law.

32\. After the operative order was pronounced in Court, Counsel for the
Defendants submits that this Court be kind enough to grant limited stay of
operation of this order to facilitate the Defendants to take the matter in
appeal or for that matter to issue instructions to all concerned for abiding
by the ad-interim order passed today as the show is going on day-to-day basis.
It is not possible to accede to this request in view of the detailed reasons
recorded above. If the request was to be accepted, the Motion will become
infructuous inasmuch as the programme that is going to be telecast by the
Defendants is only limited till 10th June 2007 as per the statement made in
the affidavit. Besides, the programme displayed by the Defendants is only for
two to three minutes on any given day. Thus understood, no prejudice would be
caused to the Defendants if the stay is refused. On the other hand, if stay as
prayed for is granted, nothing would survive in the Notice of Motion though I
have granted ad-interim relief in terms of prayer clauses (a) and (b) for
reasons already recorded above. Hence, request for grant of stay is rejected.

33\. All concerned to act on an ordinary copy of this order, duly
authenticated by the Office.

