

Delhi High Court

Ram Narain Jha vs T.M. Apartments Pvt. Ltd. on 30 November, 2007

Author: H Kohli

Bench: H Kohli

JUDGMENT Hima Kohli, J.

1\. The present petition is directed against the award dated 18.2.2003 passed
by the Labour Court whereunder it was held that the petitioner workman was not
entitled to any relief against the respondent management.

2\. Facts leading to the present petition are that the petitioner workman was
appointed as a lift operator with the respondent management w.e.f. 23.3.1991.
Allegedly, the petitioner workman reported late to office on 24.1.1992 after
which he was called to the Connaught Circus branch of the respondent
management, but was made to sit there and was not allowed to work, and
finally, on his refusal to sign certain papers, his services were terminated
verbally by the respondent management on 28.11.1992, in an illegal manner,
without giving any reasons, notice pay etc. As against the alleged
termination, the petitioner workman served a demand notice dated 28.2.1992 on
the respondent management, but having received no positive reply to the same,
an industrial dispute was raised which was referred to the Labour Court in the
following terms:

Whether the workman Sh. Ram Narain Jha has abandoned the job of his own or his
services have been terminated illegally and/or unjustifiable by the management
and if so, to what relief is he entitled and what directions are necessary in
this respect?

3\. A statement of claim was filed by the petitioner workman, against which
the respondent management filed its written statement wherein it raised
certain preliminary objections and refuted the claim of the petitioner workman
by submitting that he started absenting from work w.e.f. 28.1.1992 without any
information and he did not report for duties even after reminders/show cause
notice were sent to him and as such he had abandoned his job on his own
accord. In his rejoinder, the petitioner workman controverter the stand taken
by the respondent management and thereafter both the parties led their
evidence and the witnesses of both the parties were duly cross-examined. On
the basis of the pleadings of the parties and the evidence adduced, the Labour
Court came to the conclusion that the respondent management had asked the
petitioner workman to report for duty without prejudice to his rights, not
only by issuing letter/notice to him but also before the conciliation officer,
despite which the petitioner workman did not join duty. Consequently, by the
impugned award dated 18.2.2003 it was held that the services of the petitioner
workman were not terminated by the respondent management and in fact, the
workman had abandoned the job of his own accord by not reporting to duty
despite letters/notices sent to him, and thus he was not entitled to any
relief against the respondent management. The present writ petition is
directed against the aforesaid award.

4\. In the course of arguments, learned Counsel for the petitioner workman
submitted that the Labour Court while passing the award, erred in holding that
the petitioner workman had himself abandoned his services for the reason that
the burden to prove the factum of abandonment was on the respondent
management, which it had failed to discharge. It was further submitted that
the respondent management had failed to prove that it had sent the letter
dated 12.2.1992 to the petitioner/ workman, which formed the basis of the
finding of the Labour Court with regard to abandonment. It was stated that in
fact the petitioner workman regularly reported for duty, but was not allowed
to work by the respondent management, and that there was no voluntary
abandonment of service by the petitioner workman.

5\. It was averred that the written statement filed before the ALC or the
reply of the respondent management to the demand notice cannot be read as
calling upon the petitioner workman to report for duties as a threat was held
out that if he were to report for duty, he would be arrested as an FIR had
already been registered against him.

6\. It was urged on behalf of the petitioner workman that assuming there was
abandonment of duty by the petitioner workman, the respondent management was
still under an obligation to conduct a disciplinary enquiry before terminating
his services and the principles of natural justice need to be complied with.

7\. In reply to the arguments raised by the counsel for the petitioner
workman, learned Counsel for the respondent management submitted at the very
outset that in guise of the present writ petition, the petitioner workman has
sought re-appreciation of evidence, which is neither the object, nor within
the purview of the powers of judicial review exercised by this Court under
Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Reference in this regard was made to
the judgment of this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation of Delhi v.
Asha Ram and Anr. reported in 2005 II AD (Delhi) 285.

8\. It was submitted that there was no error in the finding of the Labour
Court that the petitioner workman had voluntarily abandoned his services. In
this respect reference was made to the show cause notice dated 12.2.1992
addressed by the respondent/management to the petitioner/workman wherein he
was asked to report for duty within 7 days, and to the letter/notice dated
7.4.1992 wherein a reference has been made to the aforesaid show cause notice,
and it was urged that despite the respondent management giving several
opportunities to the petitioner workman, he himself chose not to join duty.

9\. It was clarified on behalf of the respondent management that the purported
demand notice dated 28.2.1992 stated to have been served by the petitioner
workman on the respondent management wherein a demand was made to take the
petitioner workman back on duty, was not replied to in detail by the
respondent management for the reason that the name of the workman was stated
wrongly in the said legal notice. A reference was then made to the other two
legal notices dated 16.5.1992 and 19.5.1992 respectively served by the
petitioner workman on the respondent management to show that the petitioner
workman was not interested in working with the respondent management and was
only interested in extracting amount from it illegally on the flimsy ground
that his reputation has been damaged.

10\. It was also pointed out to the Court that the petitioner workman was
initially appointed only on probation. Reliance was placed on the appointment
letter dated 23.3.1991 issued to him by the respondent management, and it was
stated that even assuming that his services were terminated without conducting
an enquiry, such termination cannot be termed as illegal unless the same is
stigmatic. Support was sought to be drawn from the judgment rendered by the
Supreme Court in the case of Muir Mills Unit of N.T.C. (U.P.) Ltd. v. Swayam
Prakash Srivastava and Anr. . It was also urged that in any case the prayer of
the petitioner workman that he be granted reinstatement with full back wages
was not maintainable for the reason that there was no averment made by him to
the effect that he was not gainfully employed during the period of his
termination from service and also that it has been more than fifteen years ago
that he has abandoned his duty with the respondent management.

11\. Relying on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Syndicate
Bank v. General Secretary, Syndicate Bank Staff Association and Anr. , it was
lastly submitted that once notices/letters were sent to the petitioner workman
to join duty, if the petitioner workman still does not report for duty, there
was no need for holding any further enquiry and that the principles of natural
justice cannot be applied in a straight jacket formula, without understanding
their scope or real meaning.

12\. I have heard the counsel for both the parties and have carefully perused
the documents placed on record including the impugned award and the lower
court records. A perusal of the impugned award shows that the findings therein
are based primarily on the fact that despite the letter dated 12.2.1992 having
been sent by the respondent management requiring the petitioner/workman to
join service, and to return the equipments in his custody if he was not
interested in joining the services, the petitioner workman did not report for
duties, which implies that he had voluntarily abandoned his job and was not
interested in working with the respondent management. The very factum of the
respondent management having sent the aforesaid letter to the petitioner
workman is being disputed by him. The said document was placed on record by
the respondent management as Ex. MW1/5. The said letter as well as the fact
that the petitioner workman had failed to report for duty w.e.f. 25.1.1992,
also find mention in the letter dated 7.4.1992 addressed on behalf of the
respondent management to the petitioner workman which had been duly received
by him, and to which a reply was also sent by the petitioner workman. Also, it
is borne out from a reading of the written statement filed by the respondent
management before the ALC/Conciliation Officer that the petitioner workman was
called upon by the respondent/management to join duty without prejudice to his
rights. As against this, the argument of the petitioner workman that it was
only a statement made to the Court and not a proposal to him, is untenable for
the simple reason that the written statement was nothing but a reply to the
claim petition filed by the petitioner workman and any proposal made therein
was made to the petitioner workman himself and it was then for him to accept
or reject the same. The other averment of the petitioner workman that the
written statement filed before the ALC or the reply of the respondent
management to the demand notice, cannot be treated as calling upon him to
report for duty because they held out a threat that he would be arrested for
having stolen expensive equipment, is devoid of merits. The petitioner workman
could have joined back on duty and proved his bonafides, which he did not. In
this factual background of the case, despite repeated notices/letters by the
respondent management to the petitioner workman asking him to join duty, if he
chose not to do so, then there appears to be no error in the findings of the
Labour Court that he had abandoned the job of his own accord.

13\. The next issue that needs consideration by this Court is as to whether
the respondent management was under an obligation to hold an enquiry before
terminating the services of the petitioner workman, even if he had abandoned
duty of his own will and volition. In this regard the Labour Court was right
in holding that since the petitioner workman had abandoned the job of his own
accord by remaining absent from duties w.e.f. 25.1.1992 without intimation and
failed to return on duty despite the notices/letters sent to him by the
respondent management, thus there was a presumption of abandonment of job by
the petitioner workman and there was no need for issuance of a charge sheet
for conducting a domestic enquiry. Support was rightly drawn from the judgment
of in the case of Syndicate Bank (supra), wherein the Supreme Court while
dealing with the case of an employee who had remained on unauthorized leave
and failed to respond to the notice, observed as under:

15\. Now what are the requirements of principles of natural justice, which are
required to be observed? These are: (1) a workman should know the nature of
the complaint or accusation; (2) an opportunity to state his case; and (3) the
management should act in good faith which means that the action of the
management should be fair, reasonable and just....

16\. It is no point laying stress on the principles of natural justice without
understanding their scope or real meaning. There are two essential elements of
natural justice which are: (a) no man shall be judge in his own cause; and (b)
no man shall be condemned, either civilly or criminally, without being
afforded an opportunity of being heard in answer to the charge made against
him. In course of time by various judicial pronouncements these two principles
of natural justice have been expanded, e.g., a party must have due notice when
the tribunal will proceed; the tribunal should not act on irrelevant evidence
or shut out relevant evidence; if the tribunal consists of several members
they all must sit together at all times; the tribunal should act independently
and should not be biased against any party; its action should be based on good
faith and order (sic) and should act in a just, fair and reasonable manner.
These in fact are the extensions or refinements of the main principles of
natural justice stated above.

17\. The Bank has followed the requirements of Clause 16 of the Bipartite
Settlement. It rightly held that Dayananda has voluntarily retired from the
service of the Bank. Under these circumstances it was not necessary for the
Bank to hold any inquiry before passing the order. An inquiry would have been
necessary if Dayananda had submitted his explanation which was not acceptable
to the Bank or contended that he did report for duty but was not allowed to
join by the Bank. Nothing of the like has happened hire. Assuming for a moment
that inquiry was necessitated, evidence led before the Tribunal clearly showed
that notice was given to Dayananda and it is he who defaulted and offered no
explanation of his absence from duty and did not report for duty within 30
days of the notice as required in Clause 16 of the Bipartite Settlement.

(emphasis added)

14\. The law as laid down in Syndicate bank (supra) has been followed by the
Supreme Court in the case of Viveka Nand Sethi v. Chairman, J and K Bank Ltd.
and Ors. reported in (2005)5 SCC 337 and by this Court in the case of Jai
Kishan Dass and Bros. v. The Presiding Officer and Ors. being W.P(C) No.
335/1996 decided on 1.9.2006. In light of the aforesaid judgments, the plea
raised on behalf of petitioner workman that an enquiry should have been
conducted before terminating his services, does not hold water.

15\. There is also no denial to the fact that the petitioner workman was
appointed on probation for a period of one year and the probation period had
not expired at the time when he started absenting himself. It is settled law
that if the order of termination is a termination simplicitor and not punitive
in nature, then no opportunity of hearing needs to be given to a probationer.
Thus, even if it is held to be case of termination of service and not of
abandonment, still there appears to be no illegality in the action of the
respondent/management.

16\. As such all the contentions raised by the petitioner by way of the
present petition, if entertained would amount to nothing but reappreciation of
evidence and interference with findings of facts arrived at by the Labour
Court, which is beyond the scope of judicial review. Law is well settled in
this respect that it is not appropriate for this Court, while exercising
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, to reappreciate evidence
or to interfere with the findings of facts as arrived at by the Labour Court.
The jurisdiction exercised by the writ court under Article 226 is supervisory
and not appellate in nature. Reappraisal of evidence without sufficient reason
in law, to arrive at a finding of fact contrary to those arrived at by the
Subordinate Court, is not the intent of exercising the powers of judicial
review. Reliance in this regard can be placed on the following judgments of
the Supreme Court:

i. Harbans Lal v. Jagmohan Saran ii. B.C. Chaturvedi v. Union of India iii.
Indian Overseas Bank v. I.O.B. Staff Canteen Workers' Union AIR 2000 SC 1508
iv. Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Asha Ram and Anr. (supra)

17\. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances and the position of law
as discussed above, this Court finds no illegality, infirmity or perversity in
the impugned award so as to warrant any interference therewith. The writ
petition is therefore dismissed as being devoid of merits. No order as to
costs.

