

Supreme Court of India

Suru Mallick vs State Of West Bengal on 5 September, 1974

Equivalent citations: AIR 1974 SC 2305, 1974 CriLJ 1534, (1975) 4 SCC 470,
1974 (6) UJ 560 SC

Author: J Reddy

Bench: P J Reddy, P Goswami

JUDGMENT Jaganmohan Reddy, J.

1\. Three grounds have been urged against the validity of the dention order.
Firstly, that petitioner being an illiterate person, the grounds have not been
communicated to him. Secondly, that in Criminal proceedings filed against him
he was discharged on the same charges, which formed the grounds of his
subsequent detention. Thirdly, relying on the decision in Jagdish Prasad v.
The State of Bihar and Anr. (1974) 4 S.C.R. 455, wherein the District
Magistrate did not file an affidavit, it is contended that the absence of such
an affidavit is fatal to the validity of the order of detention; None of these
in our view has merit. No doubt the detenu has put his thumb impression, but
his representation immediately after the service of the order shows that it
must have been communicated to him because he understood the grounds and made
an effective representation. On the second ground the learned advocate Mr.
Gupta, appearing as amicus curing submits that though the detenu was
discharged, he could not have again been detained for the same offence. In
support of this contention, he says that the petitioner was arrested on 20th
June, 1972 and the detention order is dated 22nd June, 1972 so that was known
to the detaining authority at the time when the detention order was made that
they would not proceed with the criminal charge against the detenu. If this is
so, then his submission is that the statement in the affidavit that the
Magistrate discharged the detenu, as witnesses were not forthcoming cannot be
correct. We are not prepared to go into this question, as that would amount to
an enquiry into the truth or otherwise of the assertion made in the affidavit.
Even otherwise, it does not appear to us that on the face of it the submission
of the District Magistrate is incongruous because when serious offences are
being committed which disrupt communication and prejudicially effect the
maintenance of essential services to the community, persons incharge of law
and order will be armed with authority to detain the persons, if no specific
instances can be established in a criminal court, for want of evidence or
where witnesses are not willing to come forward, The mere fact that the
detention order was issued soon after the arrest, does not mean that the
authority concerned did not at that time consider that no criminal prosecution
could be proceeded with. It is only when it was found that witnesses were not
willing to come forward that the detention was resorted to. This case is
similar to other cases where the activities of anti-social elements which have
disrupted generally the law and order in those particular areas, had to be
detained by the concerned authorities immediately after the persons alleged to
have been indulging in prejudicial activities were discharged On this score
the detention order cannot be declared invalid. Lastly, it is contended that
Krishna Iyer, J. in Jagdish Prasad v. The State of Bihar and Anr. (supra) had
laid down that if the District Magistrate does not swear to an affidavit
showing his satisfaction, the detention order cannot be sustained. A perusal
of the judgment cited by the learned advocate, does not in our view, justify
this submission made on the observations at pp. 458-459. Krishna Iyer, J. no
doubt commented on the absence of the affidavit of the District Magistrate
because no explanation was given as to why he could not swear to an affidavit.
In that case only an Upper Division Assistant had sworn to an affidavit with
no personal knowledge and his statement made on the perusal of the record was
characterised as "paper wisdom" by the learned Judge. In our view whether the
affidavit is sworn by the Upper Division Assistant or by a Deputy Secretary
both of whom have no personal knowledge but who swear to facts gathered from
the record can have only "paper wisdom" and nothing else, But what we think
was being commented upon was that it was not shown as to why even if the
District Magistrate did not swear to an affidavit, the next best person,
namely a Senior Officer in the secretariat who has been associated with the
handling of the case at the Government level had not sworn to an affidavit
stating the facts as appeared to him from the record. Neither the absence of
an affidavit from the District Magistrate, nor the swearing by an Upper
Division Assistant was at any rate considered to be fatal because the habeas
corpus petition was in the result dismissed.

2\. In this case, it may be pointed out that the affidavit is of the Deputy
Secretary (Home Department) who is dealing with these matters. This Deputy
Secretary has stated that the District Magistrate was not available because he
was pre-occupied with some urgent business and was engaged on pressing duties
connected with the maintenance of law and order in the district. In our view,
the affidavit filed by the Deputy Secretary (Home Department) shows that the
order was made by the District Magistrate on being satisfied that the
detention of the petitioner was necessary to prevent him from acting in a
manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to
the community. There being no other ground urged against the legality of the
detention order, this petition is dismissed.

