

Delhi High Court

Akuate Internet Services Pvt. ... vs Star India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. on 30 August,
2013

Author: S.Ravindra Bhat

    
    
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
                                             RESERVED ON: 07.05.2013
    %                                     PRONOUNCED ON: 30.08.2013
    
    +           FAO(OS) 153/2013, CM APPL. 4665/2013
          AKUATE INTERNET SERVICES PVT. LTD. & ANR ..... Appellant
                             Through:   Mr. Sudhir Chandra, Senior Advocate
                                        with Ms. Gayatri Roy, Mr. Thomas
                                        George and Mr. Udit Sood,
                                        Advocates.
                             versus
    
          STAR INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR.                  ..... Respondents

Through: Mr. Parag Tripathi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal,
Mr. Sidharth Chopra, Ms. Sneha Jain, Mr. Nidhiram and Mr. Krishna Mohan,
Advocates.

Mr. Abhinav Vashisht, Senior Advocate with Ms. Radha Rangaswamy, Mr. Prateek
Chadha and Mr. Anirban Sen, Advocates for BCCI.

FAO(OS) 160/2013, CAV 265/2013, CAV 266/2013, CM APPL. 4880/2013, CM APPL.
4881/2013, CM APPL. 4882/2013 ONMOBILE GLOBAL LIMITED ..... Appellant Through:
Mr. Dushyant A. Dave, Senior Advocate, Mr. Sanjay Jain, Senior Advocate with
Mr. Hardeep Singh Anand, Ms. Vandana Sehgal, Mr. Rohan Thawani, Ms. Kriti
Singh Gehlout, Ms. Noor Anand and Ms. Ruchi Jain, Advocates.

    
    
    
                             versus
    
    
    
    
    FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013                                  Page 1
           STAR INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR.           ..... Respondents
                        Through: Mr. Parag Tripathi, Senior Advocate
                                  with Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal, Mr.
                                  Sidharth Chopra, Ms. Sneha Jain, Mr.
                                  Nidhiram and Mr. Krishna Mohan,
                                  Advocates.
                                  Mr. Abhinav Vashisht, Senior
                                  Advocate with Ms. Radha
                                  Rangaswamy, Mr. Prateek Chadha
                                  and Mr. Anirban Sen, Advocates for
                                  BCCI.
    
    

FAO(OS) 161/2013, CAV 267/2013, CAV 268/2013, CM APPL.

    
    
          4883/2013, CM APPL. 4884/2013
    
          IDEA CELLULAR LTD.                               ..... Appellant
                       Through:       Mr. Navin Chawla, Ms. Sonali Jaitley
                                      and Mr. Eshan Manchanda,
                                      Advocates.
    
                             versus
    
          STAR INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR.                  ..... Respondents
                        Through: Mr. Parag Tripathi, Senior Advocate
                                   with Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal, Mr.
                                   Sidharth Chopra, Ms. Sneha Jain, Mr.
                                   Nidhiram and Mr. Krishna Mohan,
                                   Advocates.
                                   Mr. Abhinav Vashisht, Senior
                                   Advocate with Ms. Radha
                                   Rangaswamy, Mr. Prateek Chadha
                                   and Mr. Anirban Sen, Advocates for
                                   BCCI.
    
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAJMI WAZIRI
    
    
    
    
    FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013                                 Page 2
     MR. JUSTICE S.RAVINDRA BHAT
    %
    
    

1\. These three interlocutory appeals seek interference with the common order
of the learned Single Judge, dated 13.03.2013, whereby he granted an ad-
interim order, and issued a "limited interim injunction restraining the
defendants from disseminating contemporaneous match information in the form of
ball-by-ball or minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium,
without obtaining a license from the plaintiff."

SINGLE JUDGE‟S FINDINGS

2\. The present case had a chequered history. A learned single judge had by
the earlier order (dated 08-11-2012) rejected the three suits, holding that
they were barred. A Division Bench set aside the learned single judge‟s order,
and directed that the application for ad-interim injunction should be heard on
its merits. Thereafter, the learned single judge, by the impugned order,
granted the ad-interim injunction in the manner described earlier. The facts
are that Star India Pvt. Ltd. (Star) filed three suits against Piyush Agarwal
(Cricbuzz), Idea Cellular ("Idea") and OnMobile Global Ltd. ("ONMOBILE"). The
Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI) was arrayed as the common defendant
in all the three cases. BCCI, however, supported Star, claiming paramount
rights over all information emanating from cricketing events as the organizer
and promoter of that sport in India. Star and BCCI contended in the suit that
the latter (BCCI) by agreement dated 10.08.2012 had assigned a „bouquet of
rights‟ exclusively to Star. These included „Mobile Rights‟ and "Mobile
Activation Rights‟, and Star alleged that the defendants had violated those
rights and consequently filed the suits currently in question for permanent
injunction and damages. Star also FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 3 moved
interim injunction applications against the defendants alleging that they had
violated those rights which were exclusively assigned to Star. The defendants
resisted Star‟s claims and asserted that such rights claimed by it did not
exist, and as there was no question of enforcement of a non-existent right, no
relief could be granted. Before the learned Single Judge, the defendants‟
contentions were rejected and the ad-interim injunction sought was granted.

3\. Before the learned Single Judge, Star and BCCI argued that unauthorized
dissemination of match information through live score cards, match updates and
score alerts through Short Messaging Service (SMS)/Mobile Value Added Services
(MVAS), by the appellants constituted „unfair competition‟, commercial
misappropriation or unjust commercial enrichment. Star claimed to have spent
Rs. 3581 Crores to acquire these rights, through the Media Rights Agreement
dated 10.08.2012. The appellants had no license for such rights from Star or
BCCI to disseminate match information.

4\. The Appellants had argued that Star‟s claim was barred by Section 16 of
the Copyright Act, 1957 which precluded it from claiming copyright or other
similar un-enumerated, rights. The Appellants claimed to have published match
information, after it entered the public domain; that it was purely factual
and amounted to news. They claimed that their actions did not amount to free-
riding on the efforts of the plaintiff as they did not copy the content of the
broadcast or provide access to audio or visual footage of the broadcast. The
defendant/ appellants further argued that dissemination of information through
SMS was in exercise of their free speech right under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution. Their right also extended to freedom to FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 4 carry on business in dissemination of information to the
public; both these rights could be restricted through reasonable restrictions
enacted through law, which fell under Article 19(2) and not by common law.

5\. BCCI contended before the Single judge, that as the organizer of
cricketing events in India, it owned exclusive rights in respect of content
generated during a cricketing event. These included the right to commercially
exploit all event content. BCCI claimed that it is a not-for- profit
organisation, registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act,
1975, recognized as the de-facto apex body which deals with promotion and
organisation of cricketing events in the country by the Government of India.
It is not funded by the Government. It funds all cricket related activities,
from setting up of the stadium to starting training academies for umpires,
scorers etc. Its main source of funding is by monetizing content arising from
cricket matches, such as sponsorships and commercial advertisements. The
revenue received from sale of match tickets is negligible. Of the revenue
generated, BCCI claims to plough back 85% into promoting the game of cricket
in India. The defendants on the other hand do not contribute their revenue or
a part thereof for the purpose of promoting the game of cricket in India. The
BCCI and the plaintiff claim that defendants are eating away into the mobile
and internet rights, without sharing the profit gained by them; thereby
indulging in unfair competition and unjust commercial enrichment.

6\. Star and BCCI based their arguments upon the principle underlying the
decision of the United States Supreme Court in International News Service vs.
Associated Press, 248 U.S. 215, 39 S.Ct. 68 (1918) (hereafter FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 5 "INS") to the effect that one who fairly pays the price
should have beneficial use of the property. Reliance was also placed on the
judgments in other cases regarding dissemination of content through
updates/alerts arising from sporting events, i.e. Pittsburgh Athletic Co. et.
al v. KQV Broadcasting Co., 24 F. Supp. 490 ("Pittsburgh Case"), and National
Exhibition Company vs. Martin Fass, 143 N.Y.S. 2d 767, ("National Exhibition
Case"); the decision in Twentieth Century Sporting Club Inc. and Ors vs.
Transradio Press Service Inc. and Anr., 300 N.Y.S. 159 ("Twentieth Century Fox
Case"). In all three cases, the Courts granted injunction following the ratio
in the INS Case. The plaintiffs stated that these precedents had great
persuasive value due to the similarity in the circumstances, especially with
respect to play-by- play updates being analogous to the ball-by-ball updates
provided by the defendants. The plaintiffs also relied on the decision of the
Madras High Court in Marksman Marketing Services Pvt. Ltd. vs. Bharti Tele-
Ventures Ltd. & Ors., O.A. No. 78/2006 ("the Marksman Case"), which dealt with
nearly identical facts as the present case. In the Marksman Case, the Pakistan
Cricket Board (PCB) had assigned its exclusive rights over a cricket series
between India and Pakistan in the form of television rights, audio rights,
internet rights, SMS rights and other rights to several persons on global
basis for a valuable consideration. M/s. VECTRACOM Pvt. Ltd., a company
incorporated under the laws of Pakistan had entered into an agreement with the
PCB, dated 29.12.2005 with respect of SMS rights in India‟s Tour of Pakistan.
The Plaintiff prayed for an injunction under Sections 55 and 61 of the
Copyright Act, 1957, restraining the defendants from disseminating information
relating to scores, alerts and updates through SMS technology on wireless and
mobile phones by means of FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 6 transmission
to handheld mobile phones in respect of the matches. Relying on National
Basketball Association and NBA Properties Inc. v. Sports Team Analysis and
Tracking Systems Inc. 939 F. Supp. 1071 ("the NBA-1 Case") the High Court held
that:

> "The right of providing scores, alerts and updates is the result of
> expenditure of skill, labour and money of the organisers and so the same is
> saleable only by them. The sending of score updates and match alerts via SMS
> amounts to interference with the normal operation of the Organisers
> business. The defendant‟s act of appropriating facts and information from
> the match telecast and selling the same is nothing but endeavouring to reap
> where the defendants have not sown."

7\. The plaintiff also relied on Secretary, Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting, Govt. of India & Ors. v. Cricket Association of Bengal & Ors.,
(1995) 2 SCC 161 where the Supreme Court, held that BCCI was a non-profit
making organization, which officially controls the organised game of cricket
in India and had held that BCCI‟s duty was to explore the most profitable
avenues of telecasting the event. Underlining the need to protect time
sensitive information emanating from cricketing events specifically score
updates/match alerts the plaintiffs position was that match information did
not enter public domain for a particular span of time. A distinction was drawn
between those having access to television or radio and their ability to be
informed about match status in real-time and those who do not have such access
( like those in office or courtrooms etc) who cannot have instant access to
match status.

8\. The appellant‟s argument, in defence, was that the „proprietary rights‟
claimed in the suit were not recognized under any law or statute. Reliance
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 7 was placed upon Section 16 of the
Copyright Act, 1957 to claim that any right other than what was provided under
the Act was barred. The appellants relied on Time Warner Entertainment Co.,
L.P. & Ors. v. R.P.G. Netcom & etc. AIR 2007 Del 226; and Super Cassettes
Industries Ltd. v. Mr. Chintamani Rao & Ors. 2012 (49) PTC 1 (Del) where the
court had held that claim for enforcement of rights beyond the Act can only be
in terms of a law which was in force at the time when the Act was enacted.
Common law rights under copyright law were held to be abrogated by Section 31
of the previous Copyright Act, 1911. The appellants also contended that torts
such as defamation and breach of confidentiality are the only ones recognized
by the law in India and that the „unfair competition‟ is not a recognized
tort. Strong reliance was placed on the United States Court of Appeals, Second
Circuit ruling in National Basketball Association and NBA Properties Inc. v.
Motorola Inc. 105 F. 3d. 841 (1997) ("the NBA-2 Case"). Reliance on Barclays
Capital Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. & Morgan Stanley &
Co. Inc. v. Theflyonthewall.com Inc. 650 F. 3d 876 ("The flyonthewall Case)
was also placed.

9\. The appellants contended that the U.S. Courts decisions represented a
departure from the „Hot-News Doctrine‟ enunciated in the INS Case. They argued
that the NBA-2 Case was contexted on the pre-emption of state law claims that
enforced rights "equivalent" to exclusive copyright protection, when the work
to which the state claim fell within the area of copyright protection. This is
similar to Section 16 of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957. The appellants also
relied on decisions of Triangle Publications Inc. v. New England News Paper
Publishing Co., 46 F. Supp. 198 (1942) and Compco FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 8 Corp v. Day Brite Lightning Inc. 376 U.S. 234 (1964), given by
the US courts. They also relied on Cadbury-Schweppes Pty. Ltd. & Ors. v. Pub
Squash Co. Pty. Ltd., (1981) 1 W.L.R. 193 and Moorgate Tobacco Co. Ltd. v.
Philip Morris Ltd., 156 CLR 414 by the High Court of Australia. Further to
these contentions, the appellants argued that Star and BCCI could legitimately
claim broadcasting rights and copyright over the cinematograph film of the
cricket match or audio recording of the commentary to the extent it is
recognized under the Act. Their (the appellant‟s) activity was not the result
of "free-riding" because they did not copy the broadcast content or provide
access to audio or visual footage of the broadcast. The appellants contended
that they were legally entitled to disseminate the score updates/match alerts
to the public and consequently generate income. Such information, emanating
from the cricket matches i.e. score updates/match alerts, were „facts‟ over
which there cannot be copyright monopoly. In support, reliance was placed on
Victoria Park Racing and Recreation Grounds Co. Ltd. vs. Taylor, 58 CLR 479
("the Victoria Park Case") and Feist Publications, Inc. V Rural Telephone
Service Co., 499 U.S. 340 (1991) ("Feist").The score update had entered the
public domain and therefore, could be freely used by anyone. Finally, the
Constitution under Article 19(1)(a) confers upon them the freedom to
disseminate information to the public. It was submitted that for any kind of
copyright protection, or protection akin to those rights, the claimant should
show originality (Servewell Products Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Dolphin, 2010 (43)
PTC 507 (Del) and Eastern Book Company v. DB Modak 2008 (1) SCC 1 which has
approved the „modicum of creativity‟ test). The latter judgment was also used
to say that the cricket scores and updates had entered the public FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 9 domain. To support the right to free speech
argument, the appellants relied upon Tata Press Limited vs. Mahanagar
Telephone-Nigam Limited & Ors. AIR 1995 SC 2438 where the Court held that
"Article 19(1)(a) not only guarantees freedom of speech and expression, it
also protects the rights of an individual to listen, read and receive the said
speech."

10\. The learned single judge formulated the following issues for
consideration:

a. Whether BCCI has the right to monetize the information arising from a
cricket match organised by it?

b. Whether the defendants are free-riding on the efforts of the
plaintiff/BCCI?

c. Whether the score alert/match updates are already in public domain? d.
Whether the defendants have a freedom under Article 19(1)(a) to disseminate
contemporaneous match information?

e. Whether the public interest needs to be kept in mind before considering the
rival claims?

f. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an interim injunction?

11\. The learned single judge said that the appellants‟ contention that the
plaintiffs were disentitled to copyright or other similar rights under the Act
was "misplaced". The Court stated that the plaintiffs premised their claim
outside of provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957; he therefore held that the
decisions in Feist, Victoria Park, Theflyonthewall and Eastern Book Company to
be irrelevant. He declined to examine "if match information is a product of
the „originality or creativity‟ of the plaintiff." He however said that "under
Copyright Law, „facts‟ cannot be copyrighted".

12\. The Court then proceeded to reject the appellants‟ contention that any
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 10 rights analogous or similar to
copyrights, were excluded by reason of Section 16. In doing so, it was held
that Section 16 applies to „work‟, which is defined under Section 2(y) of the
Act as (i) a literary, dramatic, musical, or artistic work; (ii) a
cinematograph film; (iii) a sound recording. The learned single judge held
that the definition is exhaustive and not inclusive, signifying the parameters
of Section 16. Section 16 consequently was held inapplicable to "anything
which is not a work". The impugned order also held that Section 16 stood
further limited by Section 39A as the latter provision belonged to the Chapter
of the Act which deals with „neighbouring‟ or „related rights‟. It enumerates
provisions of the statute which apply to copyright would also apply, mutatis
mutandis to the neighbouring rights (eg. Performer‟s rights, Broadcasting
reproduction rights). Section 16 is not enumerated under Section 39A of the
Act. Under the Copyright Act, rights besides copyright are created; they
include rights of broadcasting organisations under Section 37, rights of
performers under Sections 38 and 38A, and the moral rights of authors which
are recognized under Section 57. They are distinct from copyright. The single
judge relied on ESPN Star Sports v. Global Broadcast News Ltd. & Ors. 2008
(38) PTC 477 (Del.) (DB) (ESPN Case). In view of these, it was held that "pre-
emption under Section 16 of the Act, only applies to copyright or any similar
right with respect to „works‟ and cannot be extended to the other rights in
any manner whatsoever." The learned single judge said that the plaintiffs
"have merely approached this Court to find a remedy in common law against the
tort of „unjust commercial enrichment". Reliance was placed on the judgment of
the Supreme Court in Mahabir Kishore & Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 1989
(3) SCR 596 to hold that "Courts in England have FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 11 formulated the doctrine of unjust enrichment in certain
situations where it would be „unjust‟ to allow the defendant to retain a
benefit at the plaintiffs expense."

It was observed that:

> 31\. In the instant case, it is unnecessary to determine whether the
> plaintiff has absolute proprietary rights under common law over all the
> information which arises from a cricket match. The plaintiff is only seeking
> the declaration of a right to generate revenue by monetizing the information
> arising from an event, which has been conceptualized, developed, created and
> organised by the sole efforts and expenditure of the BCCI; as its assignee.
> Admittedly, in order to monetize the expense, effort and skill employed in
> organising cricket matches in India, the BCCI conducted an auction in April
> 2012 to assign exclusive rights such as television rights, audio rights,
> internet rights and mobile rights, for all BCCI events. Besides, it has also
> been submitted that the „Mobile Rights‟ and „Mobile Activation‟ rights were
> also available on an „a la carte‟ basis at a cost of Rs. 50 lacs per match.
> Applying the test of unjust enrichment as observed in the Mahabir Kishore
> case, it is amply clear that the defendants are enriching themselves at the
> cost of the plaintiff.

> 32\. With respect to the defendant‟s arguments regarding lack of direct
> competition between the parties, I find that the action of the defendants
> directly competes with the plaintiff. This is because both the plaintiff and
> defendant are seeking to generate revenue by way of providing
> contemporaneous score updates/match alerts. The plaintiff in the instant
> case has successfully bid for the entire „bouquet of rights‟ which also
> included „mobile rights‟ and „mobile activation rights‟. The Media Rights
> Agreement defines-

Mobile Activation Rights means the right to make available any form of BCCI-
branded schedule; match and score alert and application exploited via SMS, MMS
or any other form of Mobile Communications Technology or Mobile Wireless
Technology; It is clarified that no other form of exploitation FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 12 would be permitted such as competition, game,
fantasy event, predictor game, application or other activation which are
expressly prohibited.

Mobile Rights means the Mobile Activation Rights and the right to deliver or
provide access to the Feed or Footage, the Audio Feed, any Unilateral
Commentary and Unilateral Coverage in the Territory during the Rights Period,
for reception and viewing in an intelligible form on a Mobile Device where the
communication link(s) used in such delivery comprises, at least in part,
Mobile Communications Technology and/or Mobile Broadcast Technology but
excluding Television Delivery and Internet Delivery.

33\. If the plaintiff did not intend on generating revenue by exploiting these
„mobile rights‟ and „mobile activation rights‟, it could have resorted to
bidding only for selective rights since they were also available on an „a la
catre‟ basis. It is amply clear that the plaintiffs grievance is not
infringement of its exclusive rights over the footage of the cricket match,
but specifically regarding the right to raise revenue by disseminating match
information contemporaneously via SMS/MVAS by exploiting the „mobile rights‟
and „mobile activation rights‟ exclusively assigned to it in the „Media Rights
Agreement‟ dated 10.08.2012. Therefore, the element of direct competition
clearly exists specifically with respect to contemporaneous score
updates/match alerts."

It was further observed that:

> "36. Though the Court in the NBA-2 Case may have watered down the
> applicability of the „hot news doctrine‟ from the INS Case due to the 1976
> amendments to the Federal Copyright Law in the U.S., it has retained the
> primacy of the fundamental principles on unjust enrichment as evidenced in
> prongs (i), (iii) and (iv) of the test mentioned above. Besides, the
> exclusive right of an Organiser to monetize his own event need not find its
> source in any statutory enactment, because it is a fundamental principle of
> equity as observed in the INS Case, The underlying principle is much the
> same as that which lies at FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 13 the base
> of the equitable theory of consideration in the law of trusts-that he, who
> has fairly paid the price, should have the beneficial use of the property.

> This reasoning has been followed in other cases regarding dissemination of
> updates/alerts arising from sporting events such as the Pittsburgh Case,
> National Exhibition Case and the Twentieth Century Fox Case.

> 37\. Moreover, it is clear, that match information is generated because of
> the cost incurred by the BCCI in organising the cricket as a sport in India.
> It is undisputed, that BCCI plays the cardinal role in all aspects of
> cricket in India. Right from remunerating the players, umpires and other
> match officials, to arranging sponsors for the cricket match itself. It is
> also undisputed that the only source of income for the BCCI is from
> monetizing the cricketing events organised by it. In such a circumstance,
> the defendants would have had a legitimate right to disseminate
> contemporaneous match information, had they obtained a license by either
> participating in the bid conducted by the BCCI or by obtaining a sub-license
> from the plaintiff. The argument that expenditure is being incurred by the
> defendants to set-up infrastructure and employ personnel has no merit,
> because such expenditure is incurred upon the process of dissemination and
> not towards the organization of the sport or in the process of legitimately
> obtaining the information from the plaintiff or BCCI. Therefore, I find that
> the action of the defendants cashing upon the efforts of the plaintiff/BCCI
> constitutes free-riding."

13\. The Appellants‟ argument that match information was in the public domain
was brushed aside; the impugned order held that as the plaintiffs did not seek
copyright of the score updates, there was no question of information entering
the public domain. The term public domain, according to the learned single
judge, had different connotations, as match facts did not enter the public
domain simultaneously with the events, due to the time lag of few seconds as a
result of time taken for transmission. "As a corollary, FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 14 the information has still not entered the public domain qua
the persons who do not have any access to a source of contemporaneous
information i.e. TV or radio." The court went on to hold that facts relating
ball by ball progress of the match were in great demand and consequently it
could not be said to be available immediately after the event.

14\. The court found merit in the Appellant‟s argument that they have a
fundamental right to disseminate such information as demanded by the public;
yet it felt that the Court had "to balance the right of the organiser of an
event to monetize his own event as against the right of the public to receive
information regarding such event." The impugned judgement also sought to
categorize and classify members of the public into three categories, i.e.
those who attended the event after purchasing tickets; those who watch the
event being telecast live and those who depend on reporting of the event.
After analysing the decision in New Delhi Television Ltd. v. ICC Development
(International) Ltd. & Anr., FAO (OS) 460/2012, it was observed that the
freedom of speech and expression was available to the press to disseminate
information, but a line had to be drawn in cases where the freedom is misused.
The Court quoted approvingly, observations from the Division Bench ruling that
reporting of such news with the motive of profiting did not amount to exercise
of freedom of speech. It was held that reporting of the cricketing event was
quite different from providing a ball- by-ball account of the match, for a
consideration, through SMS alerts. The court held that the protection of right
to freedom of speech did not extend to such activities:

"49. Therefore, it is amply clear that the dissemination of the FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 15 ball-by-ball or minute-by-minute updates at a
premium cannot be exonerated under the freedom of speech and expression as
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). Meanwhile, all noteworthy information
arising from a cricket match constitute „news‟, and the „reporting‟ of such
noteworthy information would be protected under Article 19(1)(a)."

In light of the observations, and findings, the learned Single Judge ordered:

> "a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the form of ball-by-ball
> or minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without
> obtaining a license from the plaintiff. b. There shall be no restriction
> upon the defendants to report „noteworthy information‟ or „news‟ from
> cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49), as and when they arise,
> because „stale news is no news‟.

> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes."

APPELLANTS‟ CONTENTIONS

15\. The appellants argue that concededly no statute creates a property right
in "scores" and other happenings on the field; consequently the Court fell
into error in creating new property rights. It is argued that facts cannot be
"owned" by anybody either under statute or common law. In this context, it is
stated, that the plaintiffs aver in the suit that they assert "exclusive
rights over Match Information generated during a cricket match, which is
purely factual information, incapable of copyright protection" which cannot
transform into wider, ill-defined rights of indefinite duration. Therefore, it
cannot ask that "match information" of the kind which is subject matter of the
suit, should be protectable as a property right. It is further submitted, in
this context that there are several unresolved policy FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 16 issues which constrain the court from holding that cricket
scores or match information is property. These concerns include - the scope of
such right, difference between protected facts and those which are not
protected, the term/period of such hot news protection, question of who is the
first owner of the property i.e. organizer or the players, manner of licensing
of the rights, applicability of provisions relating to such incidents, how can
proprietors of such rights relinquish them to bring them into the public
domain, compulsory licensing of such rights, exercise of jurisdiction by a
regulatory body to grant such rights, collective licensing of events,
protection accorded to foreign events, principles of fair dealings applicable
to such events.

16\. It is submitted that even the judgment in INS had voiced concerns; the
opinion of Justice Brandeis, especially the following observations were relied
on:

> "Then the creation or recognition by courts of a new private right may work
> serious injury to the general public, unless the boundaries of the right are
> definitely established and wisely guarded. In order to reconcile the new
> private right with the public interest, it may be necessary to prescribe
> limitations and rules for its enjoyment; and also to provide administrative
> machinery for enforcing the rules. It is largely for this reason that, in
> the effort to meet the many new demands for justice incident to a rapidly
> changing civilization, resort to legislation has latterly been had with
> increasing frequency.

> xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx Courts are ill-equipped to make the
> investigations which should precede a determination of the limitations which
> should be set upon any property right in news or FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
> 161/2013 Page 17 of the circumstances under which news gathered by a private
> agency should be deemed affected with a public interest. Courts would be
> powerless to prescribe the detailed regulations essential to full enjoyment
> of the rights conferred or to introduce the machinery required for
> enforcement of such regulations. Considerations such as these should lead us
> to decline to establish a new rule of law in the effort to redress a newly
> disclosed wrong, although the propriety of some remedy appears to be clear."

Learned counsel further argued that INS was acknowledged as not capable of
generally creating a property right, since that is a legislative prerogative.
For this, Justice Learned Hand‟s observations in Cheney Bros. v. Doris Silk
Corp. [1929, Court of Appeals] were relied upon:

> "In the absence of some recognized right at common law, or under the
> statutes and the plaintiff claims neither- a man‟s property is limited to
> the chattels which embody his invention. Others may imitate these at their
> pleasure. Of the cases on which the plaintiff relies, the chief is
> International News Service v. Associated Press 248 U.S. 215. Although that
> concerned another subject-matter- printed news dispatches- we agree that, if
> it meant to lay down a general doctrine, it would cover this case; at least,
> the language of the majority opinion goes so far. We do not believe that it
> did. While it is of course true that law ordinarily speaks in general terms,
> there are cases where the occasion is at once the justification for, and the
> limit of, what is decided. This appears to us such an instance; we think
> that no more was covered than situations substantially similar to those then
> at bar. The difficulties of understanding it otherwise are insuperable. We
> are to FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 18 suppose that the court meant
> to create a sort of common-law patent or copyright for reasons of justice.
> Either would flagrantly conflict with the scheme which Congress has for more
> than a century devised to cover the subject-matter... It appears to us
> incredible that the Supreme Court should have had in mind any such
> consequences. To exclude others from the enjoyment of a chattel is one
> thing; to prevent any imitation of it, to set up a monopoly in the plan of
> its structure, gives the author a power over his fellows vastly greater, a
> power which the Constitution allows only Congress to create...

> xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Congress might see its way to create some sort of
> temporary right, or it might not. Its decision would certainly be preceded
> by some examination of the result upon the other interests affected. Whether
> these would prove paramount we have no means of saying; it is not for us to
> decide. Our vision is inevitably contracted, and the whole horizon may
> contain much which will compose a very different picture."

17\. Learned senior counsel stated that barring few instances where such so-
called rights were recognized through judicial decisions, there is more or
less unanimity of judicial opinion in courts around the world, i.e. such
claims cannot be allowed without a statutory framework. Counsel stressed that
especially in Courts of English Common Law jurisdictions have emphatically
rejected the existence of such "property rights" and stated that giving relief
based on such so called "created" rights would be an instance of judicial
legislation. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of this Court in
Emergent Genetics India Pvt. Ltd v. Shailendra Shivam [2011 (47) PTC 494
(Del)], especially the following observations were cited:

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 19 "in the absence of a statutory regime
(as is urged by the Plaintiff) is that the Courts of law would be at one fell
stroke, not only make policy choices which would impact livelihoods of
millions, but would be ordaining, unwittingly, legislation, which cannot be
tested for its reasonableness. An inventor or innovator undoubtedly should be
provided a fair regime which protects his creative efforts, and rewards him.
But in the absence of thought out policies, which weigh the advantages as well
as the drawbacks, that may manifest in the unhindered enforcement of such
impulses, there is a danger of imperilling the right to occupation, guaranteed
by Article 19 (1) (g) and the right to livelihood, so emphatically held to be
an intrinsic part of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, by our Courts."

The appellants‟ counsel also relied on the judgment of the High Court of
Australia in Victoria Park Racing and Recreation Grounds Co. Ltd v. Taylor [58
CLR 479 (1937)] and Moorgate Tobacco Co. v. Philip Morris [156 CLR 414
(1984)]. Moorgate was particularly stressed upon to say that the broad tort of
unfair competition cannot be resorted to in order to prevent legitimate
business in an activity of the kind indulged in by the appellants.

18\. Counsel argues that it is hard to conceive that someone or some entity
can "own" an event; one may be an organizer. Certain aspects or features of an
event may be capable of ownership. In support of this contention, i.e.
inability to own facts, reliance is placed on the judgment in Eastern Book
Company v Modak 2008 (1) SCC 1. The sporting event as a whole is incapable of
ownership. The mere expending of money or effort would not render the
underlying facts relating to sporting events property, capable of protection.
What is conceivable, counsel submitted, is that the organizer of an event can
have certain rights which flow from (a)his ownership/control over the venue
i.e. land; and/or (b)statute. In this context, the following FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 20 observations in Victoria Park (supra) were relied on:

> "Further, he does no wrong to the plaintiff by describing to other persons,
> to as wide an audience as he can obtain, what takes place on the plaintiff‟s
> ground. The court has not been referred to any principle of law which
> prevents any man from describing anything which he sees anywhere..."

It was stated that not only the plaintiffs, but also others had the right to
"monetize" the facts and information, over which there could be no monopoly.
It is also argued that the plaintiffs‟ contentions are inconsistent, because
their rights self professedly are not asserted against the world at large,
which is contrary to the principle underlying the property rights, which exist
in rem. The appellants argue that the concept of "offtube reporting" is well
recognized and is not actionable unless it can be shown that the off tube
broadcaster is holding himself out to be the official broadcaster (i.e. a case
of passing off). To quote from the decision of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division in British Broadcasting Corporation v Talksport Ltd [(2001)
F.S.R. 6]:

> "Talksport Ltd, the defendant before me, is a licensed United Kingdom radio
> broadcaster. As its name implies, its broadcast output is very heavily
> focused on sports coverage...

[Talksport] has resorted to another means of covering the event. It does so
"offtube"; i.e. from a television screen outside the stadium where the match
in question is being played Off-tube coverage is a well-known broadcasting
technique. The commentator sits in front of an ordinary television set
watching the event as transmitted by some other organisation, and describes to
the radio listener what he can see from the screen in front of him. The
commentator‟s awareness of what is going on at the match, being confined to
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 21 what he sees on the television screen,
is necessarily more limited than that of the commentator viewing the event
with his own eyes from within the stadium itself. Whereas the commentator in
the stadium can pick up and comment on events away from the scene of play
which he happens to notice elsewhere in the stadium, the off-tube commentator
can only comment on what the producers of the television broadcast which he is
watching choose to screen... What prompted these proceedings was Talksport‟s
advertising of its Euro 2000 coverage as being "live". The BBC objected to
this. It considered that by representing that it was providing live radio
coverage, Talksport was representing falsely that its coverage would be by
commentators from within the stadium describing what they see with their own
eyes as distinct from what they see on the television monitor alone, together
with ambient sound from the matches themselves. Believing correctly that, as a
broadcaster without the right to provide live coverage from within the match
stadia, Talksport‟s coverage would be off-tube with ambient sound provided by
pre-recorded sound effects, the BBC complained that Talksport was incorrectly
representing the nature of the coverage it was providing, and incorrectly
representing itself to be the holder of live broadcasting rights."

19\. It is submitted that the concept of unjust enrichment is embodied only in
Section 72 of the Contract Act, which extends to pre-existing contractual or
quasi contractual relationships. Learned senior counsel also relied on Sports
and General Press Agency Ltd v "Our Dogs" Publishing Co Ltd [(1916) 2 K.B.
880] Cadbury-schweppes Pty Ltd and Others v Pub Squash Co Pty Ltd. [(1981) 1
W.L.R. 193] and Hodgekinson Corby Ltd v Wards Mobility Services Ltd [1994 Ch.
1564]. Sports and General Press Agency Ltd. was relied on to state that the
organizer of an event cannot grant a license or an exclusive license to a
right (here the right to FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 22 photograph)
that does not exist. The organizer of an event, by virtue of being in control
of premises, can impose any restrictions he wishes by contract. But there is
no such proprietary right in common law so as to proceed against third
parties. It was held there that:

> ".....It is quite true that, as they were in possession of the spot where it
> would probably be convenient to Place the camera for the purpose of
> photographing, they had the advantage, so far as the land in their
> possession was concerned, of being the only persons who could conveniently
> take photographs, but that is a very different thing from saying that they
> had the sole right to photograph anything inside the show. If any person
> were to be in a position, for example from the top of a house, to photograph
> the show from outside it, the association would have had no right to stop
> him. In my judgment no one possesses a right of preventing another person
> photographing him any more than he has a right of preventing another person
> giving a description of him, provided the description is not libellous or
> otherwise wrongful. Those rights do not exist."

20\. Learned counsel for the appellants next argued that property rights
always exist in rem. In this context, what STAR and BCCI assert is a property
right which, does not exist "against the world at large". It is admitted that
there is no exclusive property right against persons who carry on the same
activities gratuitously. In this context, it is stated that STAR admits that
it cannot have any cause against one using a satellite positioned above a
stadium and broadcasts an on-going match free of cost. It is also conceded
that no cause of action would lie against the present defendants if they were
to continue operating without charging a premium. These, submit the appellant
militate against the concept of property right and the entitlement to sue in
tort.

    
    
    FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013                                             Page 23
     RESPONDENTS‟ CONTENTIONS
    

21\. The respondents submit that what is asserted is not an intellectual
property right, or a copyright. It is a unique property right, which stems out
of a negative obligation of the appellants, who secure match related
information contemporaneously, not to use it commercially for a short
duration. Whereas the right of the members of the public - who witness the
event, having paid for the tickets or millions of television viewers who
subscribe and watch paid channels, which cover the event, to share it on a
non-commercial basis cannot be denied, yet the obligation of a third party not
to commercially exploit it is self evident.

22\. The respondents insist that the narrow scope of this case involves
protection of Property Rights in contemporaneous/ almost instantaneous
dissemination of Match Information through Mobile SMS updates to those class /
market of persons who have no access to television, radio or internet and have
access to Match Information only through mobile phones. It is asserted that
match information does not pass into public domain upon broadcast / telecast
of the match for third parties to freely and commercially exploit. There is a
clear distinction between the information passing into public domain and
information being available to the public. Exploitation of Match Information
through one mode of communication (such as television / radio broadcast) does
not imply that BCCI has foreclosed / abandoned its right to exploit Match
Information through all other modes of communication (such as mobile,
internet). Modes of access to a match have evolved from stadium to radio to TV
to internet and mobile. The advent of mobile technology provides an additional
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 24 independent market of cricket lovers
who are not in a position to follow the progress of a cricket match either
through television, internet or radio.

23\. The respondents cited the instance of someone in a meeting or in a trek
in the jungle for whom match information would not be in public domain,
despite telecast or broadcast of the match. Contemporaneous dissemination of
match information is targeted at exploiting the high curiosity of a cricket
lover to receive instantaneous information of an on- going match. Thus, Match
Information is time-sensitive and has commercial value only so long as it is
disseminated while it is fresh i.e. "Hot". Moreover, match information would
be commercially worthless if it is stale or dated. As long as the mobile user
remains unaware of the on- goings of the Match and is willing to pay a premium
fee to quench his curiosity to know, Match Information has commercial value,
and has all the trappings of "hot news". Dissemination of match information
through SMS updates has high commercial value.

24\. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel, argues that in terms of first
principles, it is the person who has brought into existence a product which
has a demand in the market, who is entitled to the exclusion of all others to
exploit the revenue streams arising out of such product and realize the fruits
of its product (in this case, a cricket match). A usurper (like the appellant)
cannot set up a case that there exists other equally lucrative revenue
opportunities (like broadcast rights) for the organizer of an event and
consequently the mobile value added service market should be abandoned by the
organizer. Counsel argued that Star does not FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013
Page 25 assert a Property Right against the members of the public at large,
who are free to provide SMS updates of Matches gratuitously. It is however
being asserted against competitors who are commercially exploiting such Match
Information by disseminating it contemporaneously / almost instantaneously
through SMS alerts, for a premium fee.

25\. BCCI claims, and its counsel Shri Abhinav Vashisht argues, that it owns
property rights in the match information, subject only to public interest
considerations like gratuitous dissemination by public, Mandatory Sharing of
Feed, etc. which are not relevant to this case.

26\. Learned counsel submitted that denying a basis in common law and equity
for Star to assert its property rights / ownership in dissemination of Match
Information through SMS updates, is contradictory and paradoxical. In this
context it is argued that this would lead to denial of all property rights /
ownership claims in the cricket match itself; furthermore, the entire
structure of rights in sports event, including broadcasting rights, audio
rights, internet rights, stadium rights etc. would be rendered nugatory.
Counsel also stated that if ownership is partially or fully conceded even for
one of the rights, then all incidents and insignia of ownership must follow in
respect of the entire bundle of rights vesting in the BCCI.

27\. It is asserted that a Division Bench of this Court has recognized the
distinction between general content on the one hand, and newsworthy content
generated from a special event on the other and observed that the organizer is
entitled to appropriate the newsworthy information/value of FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 26 such special events. Counsel submitted that the rights
claimed and sought to be enforced are not absolute, in that not all factual
information is the subject matter of protection, but only a limited property
right - the right to generate revenue by monetizing Match Information through
the new platform / medium of Mobile services.

28\. The respondents refute the argument that learned Single Judge failed to
address the primary question mentioned in the Division Bench order dated
03.12.2012, i.e. whether a fact is capable of being owned by the Respondents,
is erroneous. The Division Bench specifically stated that it had not dealt
with the merits of the matter. The Bench also categorically noted that the
questions raised by them were "just a food for thought for the learned Single
Judge and not to be treated as an expression of any opinion by the Division
Bench."

29\. Learned senior counsel submitted that the observations and findings of
the learned single judge are unimpeachable, because the nature of the rights,
are not proximate to copyright; they really emanate out of broadcasting, which
is covered by a separate Chapter of the Copyright Act. Even the rights claimed
in this case are not covered as broadcasting rights. It was argued that the
best argument could have been that Section 16 precluded any rights akin to
copyright. However, the rights flowed out of broadcasting rights, and not
copyrights; further, counsel contended, a crucial element was that Section 16
stood excluded in respect of broadcasting rights. Relying on the ESPN case, it
was submitted that if Parliament had intended Section 16 to apply in respect
of broadcasting rights, it would have said so. The omission was conscious and
deliberate, FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 27 which meant that only
those provisions of the Copyright Act mentioned in Section 39A would apply,
nothing else. The findings of the Single judge were therefore, justified.

30\. It was submitted that a sporting event itself is the end result or
product of exercise of considerable managerial effort and use of finance. The
performance itself is the subject matter of recordings which constitute
"work"; they are also simultaneously broadcast. These activities are also
protected as "broadcasting rights". Under the circumstances, the right to use
any other activity or aspect, capable of monetization inheres only with the
sports organizer or owner of the content, such as the BCCI and Star. Learned
senior counsel submitted that even reportage of match content through
telecasts, in the same form, i.e. rebroadcast of the event of howsoever short
a duration, would be subject to the legal regime, i.e. the promotion or
license of the content or things owner would have to obtain. In these
circumstances, the valuable rights, such as mobile rights cannot be seen in
isolation. Star and BCCI would have exclusive rights of such information which
can be disseminated commercially only with their consent upon satisfaction of
the terms which may be imposed in that regard. Learned counsel further
emphasized that the existence of mobile rights of the kind which are subject
matter of present case have been clearly established by custom and usage
across the world and are capable of enforcement.

31\. It was argued by learned senior counsel for the respondent that property
rights evolve and are to be viewed contextually. The ownership of some rights
need not be based on the ability of the proprietors to exclude FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 28 the entire world but from its enjoyment for
all times or absolutely; it can be a limited one as in the circumstances of
the present case. Just as property need not be tangible, the exclusivity need
not be absolute at any point of time or against absolute in other time or as
regards the object, i.e. the entire world. So long as the one who asserts the
right can establish exclusivity that he, as creator or one having exclusive
rights to the underlying events that constitute the fact can successfully
prevent commercial dissemination, the Courts would enforce the monopoly - a
limited one, having regard to the context of the case, i.e. the typical nature
of the cricket scores - as a negative restraint upon those who seek to
appropriate and commercially gain from it. In support of this submission that
the Courts have recognized technological developments and the given fact to
appropriate rights contextually, learned counsel relied upon the judgment of
the Supreme Court reported as Jay Laxmi Salt Works (P) Limited v. State of
Gujarat 1994 (4) SCC 1.

32\. Learned counsel further relied upon Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar, Etc. v.
State Of Gujarat and Another AIR 1995 SC 142 and Vikas Sales Corporation v.
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes AIR 1996 SC 2082 to say that the expression
"property" has been construed broadly rather than in a narrow fashion.
Reference was also made to the proposed changes to Section 52 of the Transfer
of Property Act, 1882 in the report of the 157th Law Commission of 1998.

33\. It was argued that existence of statute law in regard to activity related
to or arising from the subject matter in question would not, by itself, bar
common law remedy. It was thus submitted that the tort of passing-of exists
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 29 and damages can be legitimately
recovered upon proof of the necessary requisites, irrespective of the law
relating to registered trademarks and their infringement. Learned counsel
relied upon the judgment reported as Ellora Industries v. Banarsi Dass
Goela,AIR 1980 SC 254 (Del).

34\. It was argued that the appellants cannot claim an unrestricted right to
free speech, to clothe their otherwise illegal activities. The right to free
of speech and Expression, submitted learned counsel, is not unrestrained, but
subject to reasonable restriction under Article 19(2) itself. Learned counsel
relied upon the judgments reported as Railway Board v. Niranjan Singhi, 1969
(1) SCC 502 and Life Insurance Corporation of India Limited v. Manubhai, AIR
1993 SC 172. Learned counsel further submitted that the "hot news" doctrine
and the Court‟s authority to injunct its misappropriation has been recognized
as evident from the ruling of the Madras High Court in Marksman Marketing
Services Private Limited v. Bharti Televentures Limited [OA No. 78/2006]. In
that case too, inter alia, SMS rights were assigned by the content owner. The
Court held that sending score updates through SMS would amount to interference
with the normal functioning of the "organizer‟s business" and the resultant
misappropriation should be injuncted. Lastly, it was argued that the
appellant‟s submissions are unfounded because the BCCI is under a mandate to
ensure that dissemination of match information is optimized commercially for
the greater public good. Concomitantly, the mobile rights too have to be
monetized to promote the sport of cricket in India. In support of this
submission, learned counsel relied upon the judgment reported as Secretary,
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting v. Cricket Council of Bengal 1995 (2)
SCC 161. Learned counsel lastly relied upon the ruling of FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160
& 161/2013 Page 30 the Division Bench in New Delhi Television Limited v. ICC
Development (International) Limited and Another [FAO(OS) 460/2012] and
submitted that the limited protection by way of injunction of a finite
duration granted to preserve the sanctity of "hot news" on the basis of the
"unfair competition" and "unjust enrichment" doctrine was warranted by the
facts and circumstances of the case.

35\. Before discussing the merits of the rival contentions, it would be
necessary to extracts certain provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957. Though
Star and BCCI assert that the rights on which the suit is premised are not
based on copyright, the appellants claim that even such rights are precluded

(a) by Section 16 of the Act and (b) independent of Section 16, the nature of
rights under that Act. The relevant provisions are extracted below: Provisions
of the Copyright Act "2(dd) "broadcast" means communication to the public-

(i)by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the forms
of signs, sounds or visual images; or

(ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;

(j)"exclusive licence" means a licence which confers on the licensee or on the
licensee and persons authorised by him, to the exclusion of all other persons
(including the owner of the copyright) any right comprised in the copyright in
a work, and "exclusive licensee" shall be construed accordingly;..."

xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

(q) "performance" includes any mode of visual or acoustic presentation
including by any such presentation by the exhibition of a cinematograph film,
or by means of radiodiffusion, or by the use of a record, or by any other
means and, in relation to a lecture, includes the delivery of such lecture.

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 31 Section 2 (gg) - "performer" includes
an acrobat musician, singer, actor, juggler, snake charmer, a person
delivering lecture, or any other person who makes a performance.

xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx Section 2(y) "Work" means (i) literary,
dramatic, musical or artistic work (ii) sound recording (iii) cinematograph
film;

xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

13\. Works in which copyright subsists- (1) Subject to the provisions of this
section and the other provisions of this Act, copyright shall subsist
throughout India in the following classes of works, that is to say -

(a) Original, literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works,

(b) cinematograph films, and

(c) sound recordings (2) Copyright shall not subsist in any work specified in
sub section (1), other than a work to which the provisions of Section 40 or
Section 41 apply, unless-

(i) In the case of published work, the work is first published in India, or
where the work is first published outside India, the author is at the date of
such publication, or in a case where the author was dead at that date, was at
the time of his death, a citizen of India,

(ii) In the case of an unpublished work other than [work of architecture], the
author is at the date of the making of the work a citizen of India or
domiciled in India; and

(iii) In the case of work of architecture, the work is located in India
Explanation- In the case of a work of joint authorship, the conditions
conferring copyright specified in this sub section shall be satisfied by all
the authors of the work.

(3) Copyright shall not subsist-

(a) In any cinematograph film if a substantial part of the film is an
infringement of the copyright in any other work;

(b) In any sound recording made in respect of a literary, dramatic or musical
work, it in making the sound recording, FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page
32 copyright in such work has been infringed.

(4) The copyright in a cinematograph film or a sound recording shall not
affect the separate copyright in any work in respect of which a substantial
part of which, the film, or as the case may be, the sound recording is made.

(5) In the case of a work or architecture, copyright shall subsist only in the
artistic character and design and shall not extend to processes or methods or
construction.

14\. Meaning of copyright- For the purposes of this Act, "copyright" means the
exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the
doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial
part thereof, namely :-

(a) In the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work not being a computer
programme,-

(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in
any medium by electronic means;

(ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;

(iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;

(iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work;

(v) to make any translation of the work;

(vi) to make any adaptation of the work;

(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of
the acts specified in relation to the work in sub clauses (I) to (vi)

(b) In the case of a computer programme,-

(i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a)

(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for commercial
rental any copy of the computer programme: Provided that such commercial
rental does not apply in respect of computer programmes where the programme
itself is not the essential object of the rental.

(c) In the case of an artistic work,-

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 33

(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including depiction in three
dimensions of a two dimensional work or in two dimensions of a three
dimensional work;

(ii) to communicate the work to the public;

(iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;

(iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;

(v) to make any adaptation of the work;

(vi) to do in relation to an adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
in relation to the work in sub clauses (i) to (iv);

(d) In the case of a cinematograph film-

(i) to make a copy of the film, including a photograph of any image forming
part thereof;

(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the film,
regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on earlier
occasions;

(iii) to communicate the film to the public

(e) In the case of a sound recording-

(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it;

(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the sound
recording regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on
earlier occasions;

(iii) To communicate the sound recording to the public Explanation - For the
purposes of this section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to
be a copy already in circulation.

xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

16\. NO COPYRIGHT EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN THIS ACT.

No person shall be entitled to copyright or any similar right in any work,
whether published or unpublished, otherwise than under and in accordance with
the provisions of this Act or of any other law for the time being in force,
but nothing in this section shall be construed as abrogating any right or
jurisdiction to restrain a breach of trust or confidence. "

    
    
          xxxxxxxxxxx         xxxxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    
    
    
    
    FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013                                          Page 34
           "37. BROADCAST REPRODUCTION RIGHT.
    

(1) Every broadcasting organisation shall have a special right to be known as
„„broadcast reproduction right‟‟ in respect of its broadcasts.

(2) The broadcast reproduction right shall subsist until twenty- five years
from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the
broadcast is made.

(3) During the continuance of a broadcast reproduction right in relation to
any broadcast, any person who, without the licence of the owner of the right
does any of the following acts of the broadcast or any substantial part
thereof,-

(a) re-broadcasts the broadcast; or

(b) causes the broadcast to be heard or seen by the public on payment of any
charges; or

(c) makes any sound recording or visual recording of the broadcast; or

(d) makes any reproduction of such sound recording or visual recording where
such initial recording was done without licence or, where it was licensed, for
any purpose not envisaged by such licence; or

(e) sells or hires to the public, or offers for such sale or hire, any such
sound recording or visual recording referred to in clause (c) or clause (d),
shall, subject to the provisions of section 39, be deemed to have infringed
the broadcast reproduction right."

    
    
          xxxxxxxxxxxxxx     xxxxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    
    
          "39.  ACTS    NOT    INFRINGING    BROADCAST
          REPRODUCTION RIGHT OR PERFORMER‟S RIGHT.
    

No broadcast reproduction right or performer‟s right shall be deemed to be
infringed by-

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 35

(a)the making of any sound recording or visual recording for the private use
of the person making such recording, or solely for purposes of bona fide
teaching or research; or

(b)the use, consistent with fair dealing, of excerpts of a performance or of a
broadcast in the reporting of current events or for bona fide review, teaching
or research; or

(c) such other acts, with any necessary adaptations and modifications, which
do not constitute infringement of copyright under section 52.

39A. OTHER PROVISIONS APPLYING TO BROADCAST REPRODUCTION RIGHT AND PERFORMER‟S
RIGHT.

Sections 18, 19, 30, 53, 55, 58, 64, 65 and 66 shall, with any necessary
adaptations and modifications, apply in relation to the broadcast reproduction
right in any broadcast and the performer‟s right in any performance as they
apply in relation to copyright in a work:

Provided that where copyright or performer‟s right subsists in respect of any
work or performance that has been broadcast, no licence to reproduce such
broadcast shall take effect without the consent of the owner of rights or
performer, as the case may be, or both of them."

36\. As is evident from the above discussion, the facts are not in dispute;
the cricketing events (i.e. the matches) are organized by the BCCI on each
occasion. It has granted exclusive broadcasting rights to Star to disseminate
the information/content emanating from the event; other copyrights emanating
from recording of the live event too have been assigned to Star. These include
the right to record, reproduce, broadcast etc. the actual event with other
related rights. Among these are "mobile distribution" rights, which is the
bone of contention in these proceedings. The plaintiffs assert that these
rights enable only Star, to the exclusion of all others to FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 36 disseminate time sensitive match information, i.e.
almost contemporaneous news such as the result of a ball bowled, milestones
achieved by the player, the score, fall of a wicket, etc. through SMS alerts.
The appellants (defendants) assert that once the event occurs, it is a "fact"
over which no one can claim monopoly. The reporting of such facts cannot be
restrained and doing so, through courts would abridge free speech. The
defendant argue that there is no such "hot-news" principle which can be
enforced by courts in India; that such non-statutory common law rights,
founded on so- called notions of unfair competition or unjust enrichment, are
unenforceable. They also rely on Section 16 of the Copyright Act.

Is the plaintiffs' claim precluded by Section 16 of the Copyright Act

37\. The first principle of copyright law (for any copyright inhering in
works, i.e. literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, sound recordings or
cinematographic films) is that it is in respect of expression of ideas, not
the underlying facts or the ideas themselves. This was put neatly in Feist
(supra)by the US Supreme Court as follows:

> "This case concerns the interaction of two well-established propositions.
> The first is that facts are not copyrightable; the other, that compilations
> of facts generally are. Each of these propositions possesses an impeccable
> pedigree. That there can be no valid copyright in facts is universally
> understood. The most fundamental axiom of copyright law is that "no author
> may copyright his ideas or the facts he narrates." Harper & Row, Publishers,
> Inc. v. Nation Enterprises, 471 U.S. 539, 556 (1985)."

The idea was expressed succinctly by Justice Holmes, when he described
copyrights, in While-Smith Music Pub. Co. v. Apollo Co. 209 U.S. 1 (1908) as
restraining "the spontaneity of men where but for it there would be FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 37 nothing of any kind to hinder their doing as
they saw fit." He went on to describe the right as follows:

> "It is a prohibition of conduct remote from the persons or tangibles of the
> party having the right. It may be infringed a thousand miles from the owner
> and without his ever becoming aware of the wrong. It is a right which could
> not be recognized or endured for more than a limited time, and therefore, I
> may remark in passing, it is one which hardly can be conceived except as a
> product of statute, as the authorities now agree. The ground of this
> extraordinary right is that the person to whom it is given has invented some
> new collocation of visible or audible points, - of lines, colors, sounds, or
> words. The restraint is directed against reproducing this collocation,
> although but for the invention and the statute any one would be free to
> combine the contents of the dictionary, the elements of the spectrum, or the
> notes of the gamut in any way that he had the wit to devise. The restriction
> is confined to the specific form, to the collocation devised."

38\. The Feist requirement of some creativity has been accepted as the
standard governing copyrightability of works in India, in Eastern Book Co
(supra) by the Supreme Court. There, the court there held that mere copy-
edited portions of judgments (which contained the basic facts) did not entitle
the publisher copyright protection as they did not amount to "minimum
requirement of creativity". That the appellant expended some skill, labour and
money did not entitle them the protection: "The exercise of the skill and
judgment required to produce the work is trivial and is on account of the
labour and the capital invested and could be characterized as purely a work
which has been brought about by putting some amount of labour." This ruling,
in the Court‟s opinion, is an important mile stone in the development of law
in India, because the Court veered away from the previous copyright FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 38 protection standard indicated in University of
London Press, Ltd. v. University Tutorial Press, Ltd., [1916] 2 Ch. 601, i.e.
the claimed work being "the product of the labour, skill and capital of one
man which must not be appropriated by another, not the elements, the raw
material, upon which the labour and skill and capital of the first have been
expended. To secure copyright for this product, it is necessary that the
labour, skill and capital expended should be sufficient to impart to the
product some quality or character which the raw material did not possess and
which differentiates the product from the raw material."

(Extract from Eastern Book Co, supra).

39\. Copyright protection is thus not afforded to a work, merely because it is
the "product of the labour, skill and capital". Here, the
plaintiff/respondents say that they are not claiming copyright protection
(which is an extremely wide right, but finite in time) but a narrower right.
Copyrights for a long time did not extend to rights of performers like
musicians, singers, actors, acrobats, etc. It is in the wake of „livelihood
threatening technological changes‟ that the law intervened. The Copyright Act
was amended in 1994; the amendment introduced the recognition of the rights of
the performer through Performers rights. Section 38 of the Copyright Act
confers rights to performers like actors, dancers, jugglers, acrobats etc.
Likewise, broadcasting rights were not given statutory protection. It was only
through the same 1994 amendment that broadcast rights were afforded
protection. The traditional understanding of copyrights therefore, was altered
in 1994, with the introduction of broadcast reproduction rights in Chapter
VIII. This type of work, according to Laddie, Prescott and Vitoria, Modern Law
of Copyright and Designs Paragraph 7.32 FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page
39 (2nd edn., Butterworths, 1995) (hereinafter "Laddie, Prescott and
Vitoria"): "may be copyright even though it is wholly devoid of originality.
The statutory monopoly arises even though the author expended no mental skill,
labour or ingenuity in its preparation"

Crucially, however, this copyright in the broadcast - which is protected
purely by the fact of being a broadcast, absent determinations of originality
or expense - is distinct from the underlying creative content, "which may well
be protected aliunde." (Laddie, Prescott and Vitoria, supra, paragraph 7.32).
The plaintiffs‟ contention in these cases is not that their broadcast rights
under the Copyright Act have been violated, but that the defendants are
engaging in wrongful conduct in disseminating the underlying facts. To offer
an example (again Laddie, Prescott and Vitoria, supra, paragraph 7.33):

> "A television broadcaster acquires the results of the day‟s football matches
> from a press agency and keys them into a computer. This is then used to
> generate a teletext signal: viewers with the right equipment see the
> football results displaced on their screens. It is clear that the text
> regarded as a literary work may be copyright but that copyright will belong
> to the news agency, not the broadcaster. The broadcaster does acquire a
> copyright in his broadcast, but this is a narrow one. Thus, it would be an
> infringement of it if another broadcaster captured the signals and re-
> transmitted them. But it would not be an infringement (of the broadcasting
> copyright) if someone copied down the results from his television screen and
> published them in a newspaper. He is copying the underlying text but not the
> signals." (emphasis in original).

40\. Accordingly, what determines that the appellants‟ acts are wrongful or
not is whether the underlying match information is protected in law. Given
this, match information - which are essentially facts occurring as against the
public at large - do not per se have any claim to protection under the FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 40 Copyright Act, as the plaintiffs admit.
Further, taking an argumentuma contrario approach in specifically excluding
facts and information from the scope of protection under the Copyright Act,
the Parliament has specifically denied protection to such claims.

41\. The plaintiffs/respondents today contend that such a right exists in
common law. Accepting this argument would be an act of judicial law making in
a domain occupied by a statutory prescription, i.e. the Copyright Act. Unlike
the Designs Act and the Trademarks Act which draw from pre- existing common
law rights, in the case of the Copyright Act, "except under the provisions of
the Act, there cannot be a copyright under the common law." (ref. Eastern Book
Company and Others v. Navin J. Desai and Another, AIR 2001 Delhi 185,
paragraph 39). Indeed, "Section 16 ... makes it clear that there shall be no
copyright except as provided in the Act. Copyright, therefore, is a creation
of the statute." (Manjeh Cine Productions v. A. Sundaresan and Another, AIR
1975 Mad 22). Similar observations have been made in Time Warner Entertainment
Co., L.P. & Ors. v. R.P.G. Netcom & etc. (AIR 2007 Del 226); and Super
Cassettes Industries Ltd. v. Mr. Chintamani Rao & Ors. 2012 (49) PTC 1 (Del).
To this, Star argues that the pre-emption under Section 16 does not apply to
broadcast and neighbouring rights under Section 39A, which in question in the
present case.

42\. Apart from the reasons discussed above, i.e. that to claim an established
statutory right, some enacted standards are to be fulfilled, in the form of
the work having to consist of limited or minimum creativity, to qualify for
copyright protection, the fact remains that the plaintiffs‟ stated premise for
protection here is the mere expending of resources and skill - a FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 41 preconditions which existed to fulfil the
copyright protection standard prior to Eastern Book Co. That standard no
longer holds good. The plaintiffs‟ argument about the inapplicability of
Section 16, by reason of the language of Section 39A has facial appeal. A
deeper analysis, however, would reveal that by Section 39A those provisions of
the Copyright Act which effectuate the rights created by Parliament for
copyright protection, i.e. enabling, assignment and mode of assignment of
rights (Sections 18 and 19); licensing and mode of licensing (Section 30);
customs authorities‟ right to seize imported copies (Section 53); remedies for
infringement (Section 55) and coercive powers of law enforcement authorities
(Section 64, 65 and 66) have been extended to broadcasting rights. That cannot
exclude applicability of other provisions, (that do not find express mention
under Section 39A). The wording of Section 16 \- and very importantly, Section
63 (which create offences) refer to "other rights". By Section 16, "copyright
or any similar right" (in a work) apart from what is created by the Act is
precluded. No doubt, the expression "work" limits the exclusion. However,
equally, while the text of the Copyright Act does not prescribe what the
rights referred to in the words "other similar rights" - other than copyright
- are, this must necessarily allude to, inter alia, broadcasting rights. This
is clear from the following reasons: Section 63 \- which creates offences (and
yet is not included in Section 39A as applicable to broadcasting rights)
states that infringement of (a) copyright in a work, or (b) "any other right
created by this Act" would be punishable with imprisonment. Similarly,
expressions which are not defined by Chapter VIII are used; their meaning
(i.e. words such as sound recording, visual recording, fair dealing, etc.) can
be only construed with reference to other provisions of the Copyright Act. In
other FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 42 words, though there is no
express reference to Section 16 in Section 39A, its underlying premise, i.e.
preclusion of rights other than those spelt out in Chapter VIII, by common
law, would apply. In ESPN, the Division Bench even while holding that the
express omission of Section 61 in Section 39A did not render that suit fatal,
held that broadcasting rights are "akin" to copyrights. The decision
consequently cannot be said to conclude the issue as to whether such non-
statutory and common law rights related, or arising from subject matter of
broadcasting rights (which are statutory) exist, and are enforceable.

43\. A settled canon of statutory construction is that Parliament or the
concerned legislature is deemed to be aware of existing laws when it enacts a
new legislative measures (Syndicate Bank v. Prabha D. Naik, (2001) 4 SCC 713).
Chapter VIII was introduced due to a felt need to give limited protections to
broadcast rights akin to copyright (since its absence meant that those rights
were precluded by Section 16). The nature of copyright protection available to
performers in addition to performers‟ rights was consciously preserved by
Proviso to Section 39A:

> "Provided that where copyright or performer‟s right subsists in respect of
> any work or performance that has been broadcast, no licence to reproduce
> such broadcast shall take effect without the consent of the owner of rights
> or performer, as the case may be, or both of them."

Thus, all those limitations that apply to copyrights (such as no protection to
ideas or facts or underlying information, the idea expression merger doctrine,
etc.) would apply in the case of copyrighted works which are also the subject
of broadcast rights. If Parliament had intended to give protection to facts,
"time sensitive information" or events (such as match information), FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 43 there would have been conscious protection of
those rights by express provision. Therefore, the exhaustive nature of the
regime in Chapter VIII precludes, by its very nature, any claim for protection
over and above what is expressly granted by its provisions. It is worth
noticing that broadcasting of the event, for which broadcasting rights have
been created have a restricted term of 25 years, i.e. half of the term of
copyrights. What the plaintiffs seek is the protection of the widest amplitude
(in respect of not preventing reproduction of content of the broadcast), but
the facts underlying the broadcast, is facially untenable. Such rights have
long been held to be barred as they are "similar" to copyright protection (Ref
Donaldson v Beckett 1 ER 837 (1774); Section 31 of the Copyright and Designs
Act, as well as Section 46 (5) of the UK Copyright Act, 1956 (repealed) and
Section 171 (2) of the UK Copyright Designs and Patents Act, 1988).

44\. As a result of the above discussion, it is held that the rights claimed
by the plaintiffs, over and above the broadcasting rights, i.e. to prevent
others from publishing or sharing match information or facts, for irrespective
of commercial or non-commercial use, is precluded by Section 16 of the
Copyrights Act; it is also precluded because of the provisions of Chapter VIII
of the said Act. If Parliament had intended such rights to exist, they would
have been enacted, with suitable mechanisms for their enforcement and
effectuation.

The "Hot News" doctrine and its application in India

45\. The so-called "hot news" doctrine, in support of the content
misappropriation claim, which is the leitmotif of the plaintiff‟s case, was
premised on unfair appropriation of a quasi-property right; which was FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 44 propounded in INS (supra). The US Supreme
Court in that instance, by its majority opinion, evolved the hot news
doctrine. It would be essential to recount, howsoever briefly, the facts
presented before the Court. For comprehensive news coverage and minimizing
costs, consenting news organizations formed editorial consortiums, excluding
those who did not contribute. Associated Press (AP) and International News
Service (INS) were parties to one such arrangement; they were in competition
between themselves in the distribution of news. The value of their news
distribution businesses depended heavily on the timeliness of the news
reaching their paying audiences. AP alleged that INS copied news from bulletin
boards and from early editions of AP members‟ newspapers and passed the news
off as its own to INS customers. The time period of the alleged
misappropriation - World War I - made this difficult to AP since, like other
news agencies, it spent large amounts reporting world affairs across the
Atlantic Ocean. The questions posed before the Court were whether a property
right in news existed to prohibit such misappropriation, and, if so, whether
such a property right should be limited in time to balance the competing
interests. Chief Justice Pitney‟s opinion held that the information found in
the AP news was not copyrightable as "the information respecting current
events contained in the literary production is not the creation of a writer
but is a report of matters that ordinarily are publici juris; it is the
history of the day." Nevertheless, the same opinion went on to propound the
"hot news" doctrine. The bedrock of the opinion was that:

> "This defendant . . . admits that it is taking material that has been
> acquired by complainant as the result of organization and the expenditure of
> labor, skill, and money, and which is saleable by complainant for money, and
> that defendant in FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 45 appropriating it
> and selling it as its own is endeavoring to reap where it has not sown, and
> by disposing of it to newspapers that are competitors of complainant‟s
> members is appropriating to itself the harvest of those who have sown.
> Stripped of all disguises, the process amounts to an unauthorized
> interference with the normal operation of complainant‟s legitimate business
> precisely at the point where the profit is to be reaped, in order to divert
> a material portion of the profit from those who have earned it to those who
> have not; with special advantage to defendant in the competition because of
> the fact that it is not burdened with any part of the expense of gathering
> the news. The transaction speaks for itself, and a court of equity ought not
> to hesitate long in characterizing it as unfair competition in business."

46\. The US Supreme Court was not unanimous; there were three dissenters; two
renowned jurists, i.e. Holmes, J and Brandeis, J dissented. Specifically,
Justice Brandeis remarked, in his opinion that:

> "Then the creation or recognition by courts of a new private right may work
> serious injury to the general public, unless the boundaries of the right are
> definitely established and wisely guarded. In order to reconcile the new
> private right with the public interest, it may be necessary to prescribe
> limitations and rules for its enjoyment; and also to provide administrative
> machinery for enforcing the rules. It is largely for this reason that, in
> the effort to meet the many new demands for justice incident to a rapidly
> changing civilization, resort to legislation has latterly been had with
> increasing frequency..."

47\. The next decision, this one relied on by the Appellant, is Cheney
Brothers v Doris Silk Corporation 35 F.2d 279. Here, the Second (Appellate)
Circuit Court, speaking through Chief Judge Learned Hand narrowed the
application of the INS ruling, holding that:

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 46 "Of the cases on which the plaintiff
relies, the chief is International News Service v. Associated Press, 248 U.S.
215, 39 S.Ct. 68, 63 L.Ed. 211, 2 A.L.R. 293. Although that concerned another
subject-matter-- printed news dispatches-- we agree that, if it meant to lay
down a general doctrine, it would cover this case; at least, the language of
the majority opinion goes so far. We do not believe that it did. While it is
of course true that law ordinarily speaks in general terms, there are cases
where the occasion is at once the justification for, and the limit of, what is
decided. This appears to us such an instance; we think that no more was
covered than situations substantially similar to those then at bar. The
difficulties of understanding it otherwise are insuperable. We are to suppose
that the court meant to create a sort of common-law patent or copyright for
reasons of justice. Either would flagrantly conflict with the scheme which
Congress has for more than a century devised to cover the subject-matter.

Qua patent, we should at least have to decide, as tabula rasa, whether the
design or machine was new and required invention; further, we must ignore the
Patent Office whose action has always been a condition upon the creation of
this kind of property. Qua copyright, although it would be simpler to decide
upon the merits, we should equally be obliged to dispense with the conditions
imposed upon the creation of the right. Nor, if we went so far, should we know
whether the property so recognized should be limited to the periods prescribed
in the statutes, or should extend as long as the author‟s grievance. It
appears to us incredible that the Supreme Court should have had in mind any
such consequences. To exclude others from the enjoyment of a chattel is one
thing; to prevent any imitation of it, to set up a monopoly in the plan of its
structure, gives the author a power over his fellows vastly greater, a power
which the Constitution allows only Congress to create."

48\. Indeed, the most damaging decision undermining the INS doctrine was by
the Supreme Court itself in Errie Railroad v Tompkins 304 US 68.

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 47 The INS court‟s jurisdiction (to
declare the "hot news" doctrine) was underpinned on a federally existing
"common law" in an area concededly which fell in the states‟ legislative
domain. No state (or federal) statute existed. That doctrine was discredited
and the previous rulings upholding the federal common law principle overruled.
Here, Brandeis, J spoke for the court which overruled the federal common law
doctrine:

> "The fallacy underlying the rule declared in Swift v. Tyson is made clear by
> Mr. Justice Holmes. The doctrine rests upon the assumption that there is „a
> transcendental body of law outside of any particular State but obligatory
> within it unless and until changed by statute,‟ that federal courts have the
> power to use their judgment as to what the rules of common law are; and that
> in the federal courts „the parties are entitled to an independent judgment
> on matters of general law‟: „But law in the sense in which courts speak of
> it today does not exist without some definite authority behind it. The
> common law so far as it is enforced in a State, whether called common law or
> not, is not the common law generally but the law of that State existing by
> the authority of that State without regard to what it may have been in
> England or anywhere else. * * * „The authority and only authority is the
> State, and if that be so, the voice adopted by the State as its own (whether
> it be of its Legislature or of its Supreme Court) should utter the last
> word.‟ Thus the doctrine of Swift v. Tyson is, as Mr. Justice Holmes said,
> „an unconstitutional assumption of powers by the Courts of the United States
> which no lapse of time or respectable array of opinion should make us
> hesitate to correct.‟ In disapproving that doctrine we do not
> holdunconstitutional section 34 of the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789 or any
> other act of Congress. We merely declare that in applying the doctrine this
> Court and the lower courts have invaded rights which in our opinion are
> reserved by the Constitution to the several states."

> FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 48 Justice Brandeis thus was prescient,
> when in his (now famous) dissent he foresaw the Court‟s overreach in
> "creating" law.

49\. Subsequently, NBA (1998) was a case where Motorola manufactured and sold
the SportsTrax paging device; STATS supplied game information transmitted to
the pagers. SportsTrax‟s pager operated in four basic modes including the
"current," one. In the current mode, SportsTraxdisplayed information on NBA
games in progress: (i) the teams playing; (ii) score changes; (iii) the team
in possession of the ball; (iv) whether the team is in the free-throw bonus;
(v) the quarter of the game; and (vi) time remaining in the quarter. The
information was updated every two to three minutes, with more frequent updates
near the end of the first half and the end of the game. There was a time lag
of about two or three minutes between events in the game itself and when
information appeared on the pager screen. The SportsTrax‟s operation relied on
a "data feed" supplied by STATS reporters who watched games on television or
listen to them on the radio. The reporters keyed into a personal computer
changes in the score and other match information such as successful and missed
shots, fouls, etc. The information was relayed by modem to STATS‟s host
computer, which compiled, analysed, and formatted data for retransmission. The
information was uploaded via satellite to various FM radio networks which in
turn emitted signals to individual SportsTrax pagers.

50\. NBA‟s complaint concerned the SportsTrax device; it also offered evidence
at trial concerning STATS‟s America On-Line ("AOL") site. Users, who accessed
STATS‟s AOL site, were provided with more comprehensive and detailed real-time
game information than was displayed FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 49 on
a SportsTrax pager. NBA asserted six claims for relief: (i) state law unfair
competition by misappropriation; (ii) false advertising under Section 43(a) of
the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1125(a); (iii) false representation of
origin under Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act; (iv) state and common law unfair
competition by false advertising and false designation of origin; (v) federal
copyright infringement; and (vi) unlawful interception of communications under
the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. Statute 605. Motorola
counterclaimed, alleging that the NBA unlawfully interfered with Motorola‟s
contractual relations with four individual NBA teams that had agreed to
sponsor and advertise SportsTrax. The NBA court rejected that there could be
any copyright in sporting events:

> "Sports events are not "authored" in any common sense of the word. There is,
> of course, at least at the professional level, considerable preparation for
> a game. However, the preparation is as much an expression of hope or faith
> as a determination of what will actually happen. Unlike movies, plays,
> television programs, or operas, athletic events are competitive and have no
> underlying script. Preparation may even cause mistakes to succeed, like the
> broken play in football that gains yardage because the opposition could not
> expect it. Athletic events may also result in wholly unanticipated
> occurrences, the most notable recent event being in a championship baseball
> game in which interference with a fly ball caused an umpire to signal
> erroneously a home run.

> What "authorship" there is in a sports event, moreover, must be open to
> copying by competitors if fans are to be attracted. If the inventor of the
> T- formation in football had been able to copyright it, the sport might have
> come to an end instead of prospering."

51\. The NBA court refused to hold as unlawful the defendant‟s activity of
collecting, collating and disseminating match information through pagers,
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 50 almost contemporaneously with the
event. Along the way, its judgment dealt with Section 301 of the Copyright
Act, 1976 which had brought about a paradigm shift in the law after INS
defining what was pre-empted by federal law and what was not. The Circuit
court refused to upset the findings of the trial court, after evolving and
applying the narrow confines of the "Hot News" doctrine. It was held that:

> "We therefore find the extra elements--those in addition to the elements of
> copyright infringement--that allow a "hot news" claim to survive preemption
> are: (i) the time-sensitive value of factual information, (ii) the free-
> riding by a defendant, and (iii) the threat to the very existence of the
> product or service provided by the plaintiff.

> 2\. The Legality of SportsTrax [10] We conclude that Motorola and STATS have
> not engaged in unlawful misappropriation under the "hot-news" test set out
> above. To be sure, some of the elements of a "hot-news" INS claim are met.
> The information transmitted to SportsTrax is not precisely contemporaneous,
> but it is nevertheless time- sensitive. Also, the NBA does provide, or will
> shortly do so, information like that available through SportsTrax. It now
> offers a service called "Gamestats" that provides official play- by-play
> game sheets and half-time and final box scores within each arena. It also
> provides such information to the media in each arena. In the future, the NBA
> plans to enhance Gamestats so that it will be networked between the various
> arenas and will support a pager product analogous to SportsTrax. SportsTrax
> will of course directly compete with an enhanced Gamestats.

However, there are critical elements missing in the NBA‟s attempt to assert a
"hot-news" INS-type claim. As framed by the NBA, their claim compresses and
confuses three different informational products. The first product is
generating the information by playing the games; the second product is
transmitting live, full descriptions of those games; and the third FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 51 product is collecting and retransmitting
strictly factual information about the games. The first and second products
are the NBA‟s primary business: producing basketball games for live attendance
and licensing copyrighted broadcasts of those games. The collection and
retransmission of strictly factual material about the games is a different
product: e.g., box- scores in newspapers, summaries of statistics on
television sports news, and real-time facts to be transmitted to pagers. In
our view, the NBA has failed to show any competitive effect whatsoever from
SportsTrax on the first and second products and a lack of any free-riding by
SportsTrax on the third. With regard to the NBA‟s primary products--producing
basketball games with live attendance and licensing copyrighted broadcasts of
those games--there is no evidencethat anyone regards SportsTrax or the AOL
site as a substitute for attending NBA games or watching them on television.
In fact, Motorola markets SportsTrax as being designed "for those times when
you cannot be at the arena, watch the game on TV, or listen to the radio ..."

The NBA argues that the pager market is also relevant to a "hot-news" INS-type
claim and that SportsTrax‟s future competition with Gamestats satisfies any
missing element. We agree that there is a separate market for the real-time
transmission of factual information to pagers or similar devices, such as
STATS‟s AOL site. However, we disagree that SportsTrax is in any sense free-
riding off Gamestats. An indispensable element of an INS "hot-news" claim is
free riding by a defendant on a plaintiff‟s product, enabling the defendant to
produce a directly competitive product for less money because it has lower
costs. SportsTrax is not such a product. The use of pagers to transmit real-
time information about NBA games requires: (i) the collecting of facts about
the games; (ii) the transmission of these facts on a network; (iii) the
assembling of them by the particular service; and (iv) the transmission of
them to pagers or an on-line computer site. Appellants are in no way free-
riding on Gamestats. Motorola and STATS expend their own resources to collect
purely factual FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 52 information generated
in NBA games to transmit to SportsTrax pagers. They have their own network and
assemble and transmit data themselves.

xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx SportsTrax and Gamestats are each bearing their
own costs of collecting factual information on NBA games, and, if one produces
a product that is cheaper or otherwise superior to the other, that producer
will prevail in the marketplace. This is obviously not the situation against
which INS was intended to prevent: the potential lack of any such product or
service because of the anticipation of free-riding.

For the foregoing reasons, the NBA has not shown any damage to any of its
products based on free-riding by Motorola and STATS, and the NBA‟s
misappropriation claim based on New York law is pre-empted."

The Federal Pre-emption clause (Section 301) reads as follows:

> "301. Preemption with respect to other laws (a) On and after January 1,
> 1978, all legal or equitable rights that are equivalent to any of the
> exclusive rights within the general scope of copyright as specified by
> section 106 in works of authorship that are fixed in a tangible medium of
> expression and come within the subject matter of copyright as specified by
> sections 102 and 103, whether created before or after that date and whether
> published or unpublished, are governed exclusively by this title.
> Thereafter, no person is entitled to any such right or equivalent right in
> any such work under the common law or statutes of any State. (b) Nothing in
> this title annuls or limits any rights or remedies under the common law or
> statutes of any State with respect to-- (1) subject matter that does not
> come within the subject matter of copyright as specified by sections 102 and
> 103, including works of authorship not fixed in any tangible medium of
> expression; or ... (3) activities violating legal or equitable rights that
> are not equivalent to any of the exclusive rights within the general scope
> of copyright as specified by section 106."

> FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 53

> 52\. The ruling in NBA has received recent approval and its ratio wasapplied
> in The Flyonthewall.com Inc v Barclays Capital Inc 2011 WL 2437554 (2d Cir.
> June 20, 2011)by the Second Federal (Appellate) Circuit Court. The
> Plaintiffs were three financial services firms which regularly prepared
> research reports on publicly traded companies. The reports sometimes made
> stock recommendations. Every trading day, before the stock market opened,
> the firms used to disseminate the research reports and recommendations to
> their clients and potential clients, but not to the general public. The
> firms‟ stock recommendations usually result in increased trading activity in
> that stock. The firms benefited from this increased trading activity because
> they received commissions when clients placed trade through them.

The firms contended that clients were far more likely to place their trades
through one of them if they learned about a recommendation directly from that
firm. The defendant, Flyonthewall.com ("Fly"), obtained the recommendations
before they were available to the general public and before the market opened.
Fly would provide the recommendations to its own subscribers. As a result, the
firms‟ clients and others would learn about the recommendations from Fly and,
according to the firms, were less likely to place their trades through the
firms, which in turn sued the Fly, contending that the latter was guilty of
content misappropriation, relying on the Hot-news doctrine evolved in INS. The
trial court applied the hot-news doctrine, and held that the Fly had
misappropriated content; it granted relief to the firms. On appeal, the Second
Circuit reversed the trial court ruling. The INS decision was described, in
The Flyonthewall as :

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 54 "Some seventy-five years after its
death under Erie, INS thus maintains a ghostly presence as a description of a
tort theory, not as precedential establishment of a tort cause of action ..."
The court put to rest the "unfair" result theory rather forcefully, in the
following terms:

> "No matter how "unfair" Motorola‟s use of NBA facts and statistics may have
> been to the NBA -- or Fly‟s use of the fact of the Firms‟ Recommendations
> may be to the Firms -- then, such unfairness alone is immaterial to a
> determination whether a cause of action for misappropriation has been
> preempted by the Copyright Act. The adoption of new technology that injures
> or destroys present business models is commonplace. Whether fair or not,
> that cannot, without more, be prevented by application of the
> misappropriation tort. Indeed, because the Copyright Act itself provides a
> remedy for wrongful copying, such unfairness may be seen as supporting a
> finding that the Act pre-empts the tort."

53\. It would thus be seen that the INS decision, propounding "time sensitive"
hot-news-misappropriation doctrine, based on unfair dealing and unfair
competition, had its sceptics from inception. The majority judgment in INS
acknowledged that even such time sensitive information was not copyrightable
(as it was publici juris). Cheney saw its foundations being questioned by the
Appellate Circuit Court. Errie Railroad, a later decision of the Supreme
Court, undercut the constitutional legitimacy of the Court‟s assumption to
weave doctrines, i.e. the jurisdiction to discover and enforce federal
"common" law. In NBA, the Second Circuit, post the 1976 Copyright Act,
interpreting a federal pre-emption provision (Section 301, which enjoined
States from enacting or giving effect to copyright-like acts or rights) held
that the hot news doctrine survived in a severely curtailed FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 55 manner. Importantly, the "free-riding" or
misappropriation claim, it was held, survived only if the plaintiff was able
to show that the defendant was in direct competition with it in the same
activity. The Court observed that the event organiser owned "primary products
--producing basketball games with live attendance and licensing copyrighted
broadcasts of those games" and there was "no evidencethat anyone regards
SportsTrax (defendant‟s pager) or the AOL site as a substitute for attending
NBA games or watching them on television. In fact, Motorola markets SportsTrax
as being designed "for those times when you cannot be at the arena, watch the
game on TV, or listen to the radio ..."

54\. The preceding discussion underscores the meandering course, the rise and
diminution of the hot-news doctrine, and the narrow confines of its present
existence. The present avatar ("ghostly presence" a.k.a The Flyonthewall.com)
is narrowed to injuncting time sensitive news where both parties are "direct
competitors" and not merely where the plaintiff‟s primary service or product
is not hot news dissemination, but match organisation or broadcasting of those
events. This critical aspect is absent in the present case, as neither Star,
nor BCCI engage themselves primarily in match news dissemination through SMS.

55\. The tenuous basis of the "hot-news" doctrine in the country of its origin
apart, the Australian High Court has rejected its applicability to common law
countries repeatedly. In Victoria Park (supra) it was held that:

> "If English law had followed the course of development that has recently
> taken place in the United States, the "broadcasting rights" in respect of
> the races might have been FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 56 protected
> as part of the quasi-property created by the enterprise, organization and
> labour of the plaintiff in establishing and equipping a racecourse and doing
> all that is necessary to conduct race meetings. But courts of equity have
> not in British jurisdictions thrown the protection of an injunction around
> all the intangible elements of value, that is, value in exchange, which may
> flow from the exercise by an individual of his powers or resources whether
> in the organization of a business or undertaking or the use of ingenuity,
> knowledge, skill or labour. This is sufficiently evidenced by the history of
> the law of copyright and by the fact that the exclusive right to invention,
> trademarks, designs, trade name and reputation are dealt with in English law
> as special heads of protected interests and not under a wide generalization.
> In dissenting from a judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States by
> which the organized collection of news by a news service was held to give it
> in equity a quasi-property protected against appropriation by rival news
> agencies, Brandeis J. gave reasons which substantially represent the English
> view and he supported his opinion by a citation of much English authority
> (International News Service v. Associated Press(1)). His judgment appears to
> me to contain an adequate answer both upon principle and authority..."

Similarly, later in Moorgate Tobacco Co. v. Philip Morris [156 CLR 414
(1984)], the High Court of Australia upheld the Victoria Park Judgment and
held:

> "the decision in International News Service, which was hailed in the United
> States as a "landmark" in the law of unfair competition, has been seen even
> in that country to be more properly described as an island. Indeed, in a
> recent United States case...the "legal concept" of unfair competition was
> described as a "child of confusion" which has "spawned a body of law that
> lacks in judicial definition and scope... The notion of a general action for
> "unfair trading" or "unfair competition" has received little encouragement
> in either the House of Lords or this Court..."

> FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 57 In the United Kingdom, similar
> contentions were rejected (ref. Sports and General Press Agency Ltd v "Our
> Dogs" Publishing Co Ltd 1916 (2) K.B. 880; and Cadbury-Schweppes Pty Ltd and
> Others v Pub Squash Co Pty Ltd. 1981 (1) W.L.R.

56\. Creating property (or quasi-property) rights in information - which is
what the plaintiffs (Star and BCCI) request the Court to do in this case -
stands to upset the statutory balance carefully created by the legislature
through the Copyright Act. In a domain where Parliament has stepped in to
create a statutory regime, an exercise of creating „supplementary‟ rights in
common law would well result in obstructing the legislative scheme, as would
be the case here. The argument of BCCI that it is under a duty (by relying on
the Supreme Court judgment in Secretary, Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting)to monetize broadcasting and other rights, and is doing exactly
that, by permitting Star to monetize hot-news by licensing mobile rights is
misconceived, to put it mildly. One can "monetize" or license only that over
which one has property rights. Neither Star nor BCCI can be permitted to say
that mentioning "mobile" rights and auctioning them, would ipso facto
legitimize the parcelling away of right to disseminate information, without
first establishing that the right or exclusive domain over such rights existed
in the first instance. Similarly, the plaintiff‟s reliance on New Delhi
Television (supra) is of no avail. The Division Bench, in that case, had to
deal with broadcast of sporting events by a news channel. The Court had to
deal with whether the defendant‟s conduct amounted to fair use.

57\. In this context, the Court recollects that the Supreme Court has held,
when "[i]n our constitutional scheme ... statute monopoly is not encouraged
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 58 (and) [k]nowledge must be allowed to
be disseminated", (Entertainment Network India Ltd. v. Super Cassettes
Industries Ltd., 2008 (13) SCC 30) it is inapt that the courts create a
monopoly over facts which the Parliament has deemed fit to exclude from
protection under the Copyright Act. The plaintiff has not been able to show,
in the opinion of the court, how it has proprietary rights over the facts and
information it seeks to protect - even for a limited duration. A telling
aspect of the present case is that the plaintiff is willing to state that the
moment the event occurs, i.e. any ball is bowled or a wicket falls, the fact
or information passes into the public domain, as far as viewers and
subscribers (i.e. both the spectators at the venue, as well as the tens of
millions of television viewers) are concerned. However, it does not somehow
become part of the public domain, if any one or some of them chose to relay
the underlying facts, in the course of commerce. This aspect completely
undermines the plaintiff‟s case about it possessing proprietary rights for
very limited duration, in respect of such facts. For the reasons discussed
above, it is held that the plaintiff cannot claim any exclusive property or
other such rights to injunct the publication of match information, or hot-
news, as claimed by it, irrespective of whether the object of such third party
is to publish such information for commercial gain or without any such motive.

Plaintiff/Respondents' claim for injunction based on unfair competition

58\. Star and BCCI assert that the Appellants‟ actions amount to unfair
competition which entitles them to bring the present suit. They cite the
common law as the source of the court‟s power to grant relief, including the
equitable relief of injunction. The court has difficulty in accepting this
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 59 submission. In doing so (i.e.
accepting that there exists a doctrine of unfair competition or „hot news‟),
the Courts would be granting protection to certain intangibles (in this case,
match information) not covered under the specific statutory regimes. The
opinion in L‟Oreal SA and Others v. Bellure NV and Others, [2007] EWCA Civ 968
at paragraph 141 rightly explains that:

> "... the basic economic rule is that competition is not only lawful but a
> mainspring of the economy. The legislator has recognized that there should
> be exceptions. It has laid down the rules for these: the laws of patents,
> trademarks, copyrights and designs have all been fashion for the purpose.
> Each of them have rules for their existence ... each has their own
> justification. It is not for the judges to step in and legislate into
> existence new categories of intellectual property ..."

In fact, on being asked whether it was open for the Courts to create such
judicial remedies to remedy what the Courts consider „unfair‟ (the semantic
vagueness of that term often escaping all attempts at careful and precise
formulation), Lord Justice Jacob noted, and rightly so, that "I do not think
it open to the Court to legislate in this way." (paragraph 159). Similarly, in
Moorgate Tobacco Co. Ltd. v. Philip Morris Ltd. and Another (No. 2), (1984)
156 CLR 414, the Australian Federal Court noted that "[t]he rejection of a
general action for "unfair competition" involves no more than recognition of
the fact that the existence of such an action is inconsistent with the
established limits of the traditional and statutory causes of action which are
available to a trader in respect of damage caused or threatened by a
competitor. Those limits, which define the boundary between the area of legal
or equitable restrain and protection and the area of untrammelled competition,
increasingly reflect what the Respondent Parliament or Parliaments have
determined to be the appropriate balance between competing FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 60 claims and policies. Neither legal principle nor social
utility requires or warrants the obliteration of that boundary by the
importation of cause of action whose main characteristic is the scope it
allows, under high-sounding generalizations, for judicial indulgence of
idiosyncratic notions of what is fair in the market place." (emphasis
supplied)

59\. In fact, the recent trend internationally to accord protection to rights
in information - in varying degrees - or to accept the doctrine of „unfair
competition‟, especially in the European Union, is pursuant to legislative
action by the European Council, and not as a judicial extension. To the
contrary, similar proposals for extending the scope of protection judicially
was rejected in a line of cases, most notably, Cadbury-Schweppes Pvt. Ltd. v.
Pub Squash, [1981] 1 WLR 193.

60\. Denying the claim about the tort of unfair competition does not betray
the Court‟s reticence to protect rights in intangibles or to ensure „fairness‟
in commercial dealings, but rather, reflects sound judicial restraint, to
defer to the Parliament‟s policy decisions represented in the various
intellectual property rights statutes. Equally, once we recognize that mere
information cannot be the subject matter of protection under common law, it
becomes apparent that other means continue to remain available to protect such
information: by way of an action for breach of the common law duty of
confidence, which is a right in personam against an individual who has come
across such information under confidence, and crucially, is distinct from a
propriety right in such information itself opposable in rem. In the
circumstances of the present case, that eventuality does not arise.

61\. Moreover, there exists another cogent reason for denying the FAO(OS)
Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 61 existence of any general misappropriation or
„unfair competition‟ theory - i.e. that it would create a non-existent
distinction between „copying‟ (or reproduction) (which is the wrongful
act/actionable trigger under the Copyright Act) and „appropriation‟ (or
misappropriation) (which is the wrongful act/actionable trigger under the
doctrine of unfair competition) . Under the Copyright Act, the copying or
reproduction of match information

\- the information we are concerned with in the present case - is permitted.
To say, now, that the doctrine of unfair competition prohibits the
misappropriation of match information would either mean that misappropriation
under common law can supplant the Copyright Act (which cannot be the case, as
discussed above), or that copying and misappropriation refer to two distinct
acts, which would be a distinction without a difference. As Nimmer explains,
"it is difficult to see any substance in (this) asserted distinction ..."
Thus, it must be:

> "concluded, then, that in this context, misappropriation is but another
> label for reproduction, and as such, is a pre-empted right within the
> general scope of copyright ..." (Nimmer & Nimmer, Nimmer on Copyright
> (Indian Reprint) p. 1-47, Vol. I (Lexis Nexis, 2010) (hereinafter "Nimmer").

Accordingly, unless a qualitatively different element is purported to be
included in the doctrine of „unfair competition‟ as compared to a copyright
claim, the pre-emption under Section 16 would apply to such claims, as is the
case here. Star claims that the unauthorized dissemination of match
information (i.e. „misappropriation‟ of its quasi-property) is unlawful,
though in reality, once scaled down to the essence of the claim, it appears to
be a claim for unauthorized „copying‟ of facts, which are not copyrightable.
Thus, for example, claims that assert passing off, or a fraudulent element, or
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 62 indeed, a question of information
disclosed in confidence (as specifically mentioned in Section 16), each having
a distinct qualitative element from a mere copyright may survive Section 16
pre-emption, but not otherwise. A contrary reading would allow for claims
based on alternate common law remedies that Section 16 considers to be the
sole domain of the statute. At the same time, the Court ought to be cautious
of the scope of pre-emption under Section 16 to not restrict independent
claims "merely because ... (it) relates to intellectual property (or
specifically, copyright) ..." (Aronson v. Quick Point Pencil Co., 440 US 257,
p. 262) Rather, if the "nature and degree" of the right asserted by Star is
such that it conflicts with the scheme of the Copyright Act (Kewanee Oil Co.
v. Bicron Corp., 416 US 470 (1974), thus offering "the equivalent of a
(copyright) monopoly" (Sears, Roebuck and Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376 US 225, p.
233) that the Act itself does not recognize, its claim must be pre-empted by
Section 16. Quite clearly, in this case, according protection to match
information would provide Star - in substance - a copyright in
information/facts, a conclusion that Indian jurisprudence under the Copyright
Act strongly militates against and equally, one that upsets - to say the least
- the carefully crafted scheme of copyrightability under the Act. In fact, in
Bonito Boats v. Thunder Craft Boats, 489 US 141, the United States Supreme
Court considered a similar question of pre-emption under patent law. In
holding that the protection sought to be granted by the State law was pre-
empted by federal law, the Court held as follows:

> "A state law that substantially interferes with the enjoyment of an
> unpatented utilitarian or design conception which has been freely disclosed
> by its author to the public at large FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 63
> impermissibly contravenes the ultimate goal of public disclosure and use
> which is the centerpiece of federal patent policy. Moreover, through the
> creation of patent-like rights, the States could essentially redirect
> inventive efforts away from the careful criteria of patentability developed
> by Congress over the last 200 years."

62\. In the present case, the creation of copyright-like rights that protect
match- information, which is otherwise available freely, transgresses the
limits of the Copyright Act. Thus, the tort of unfair competition cannot aid
the plaintiff in its effort to seek equitable relief by way of injunction.

The plaintiff's claim based on unjust enrichment

63\. Coming to the question of unjust enrichment, the plaintiff‟s claim for an
interim injunction on that basis cannot survive for three distinct reasons.
First, the claim of unjust enrichment here is similarly pre-empted as the
doctrine of „unfair competition‟ is. The question, in cases of whether a
statute pre-empts a claim, is whether the two can be regarded as "equivalent
rights" (Nimmer, p. 1-51), i.e. whether, in terms of Section 16, the right
sought to be asserted is a "copyright or any similar right in any work".
(emphasis supplied). Indeed, such preclusion, and the test of equivalence,
must necessarily be the import of Section 16 to give effect to the words "any
similar right". This demonstrates clear textual support for a reading that any
right claimed which either a copyright itself, or a right "similar" to a
copyright (the question of what is similar or not forming an independent
inquiry that the Court must undertake) is precluded by the Copyright Act.

64\. In this case, and generally, as far as copyright subject matter is
concerned, the claim for unjust enrichment is whether the defendants were
„unjustly enriched‟ by the dissemination of match information, which is
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 64 identical to a claim for the
defendant‟s infringement of the match information over which Star asserts
rights. Thus, for example, claims of unjust enrichment against a tabloid for
publishing Elvis Presley‟s photographs inspired by the plaintiff‟s collection
(Curtin v. Star Editorial Inc., 2 F. Supp. 2d 670 (E.D. Pa. 1998), and a
similar claim against a studio for building a replica of the plaintiff‟s home
in a movie sequel (Tavormina v. Evening Star Productions Inc., 10 F. Supp. 2 d
729 (S.D. Tex, 1998)), were considered to be pre-empted, amounting to (in
essence) copyright claims though dressed up under alternate heads of common
law. In Tavormina, the Court specifically noted that it:

> "agrees with the Defendants that the Plaintiff‟s claim for unjust enrichment
> is pre-empted because it involves the same conduct that would fall under the
> scope of the Copyright Act. In this claim, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
> should not benefit from reproducing and displaying their house in the film
> without compensating Plaintiffs or obtaining Plaintiffs‟ permission. This
> claim thus invokes the same rights that Plaintiffs would invoke under a
> cause of action for copyright infringement."

In other words, the Court must see whether the plaintiff alleges any
misconduct incorporating elements other than those subsumed within the claim
of copyright infringement. The answer to that question is a clear and
unambiguous „no‟.

65\. Equally, the rationale behind federal law pre-emption in the United
States that claims falling (in substance, though parties may choose to address
them under various heads) under federal copyright law pre-empt similar claims
arising under state law is akin to the pre-emption under Section 16 of the
Copyright Act. This is that the purely statutory FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 65 monopolies created by the Copyright Act exclude all other
claims that "invoke the same rights ... (as) under a cause of action for
copyright infringement" (Tavormina, supra). Particularly, this conclusion is
supported by a clear rationale: that the doctrine of free acceptance under the
law of unjust enrichment - that an individual who freely accepts the benefits
of the services of another must - on account of such unjust enrichment -
restitute the other - runs into difficulty in copyright claims. This is
because a copyright infringer "always "accepts" the benefit of a copyrighted
work" (Nimmer, p. 1-52, emphasis supplied), and thus, a claim for copyright
infringement would in no way differ qualitatively from an unjust infringement
claim over copyright subject matter that is not covered under the Copyright
Act. Indeed, a contrary conclusion would mean that for all copyright
infringement claims that fail for want of copyrightability, the plaintiff
would also have - as a means to bypass the exhaustive statutory scheme - a
claim for unjust enrichment. If allowed, this would run counter to the Section
16 pre-emption, which would exclude the claim of unjust enrichment as well to
ensure no protection is granted for facts, ideas and expressions de hors the
Copyright Act.

66\. The second reason why the plaintiff‟s argument on unjust enrichment
cannot prevail here is because even if the claim of unjust enrichment is to be
seen on merits, (assuming that it is not pre-empted by Section 16), such a
claim cannot - by definition (with limited exceptions as noted below) -
injunct or prohibit the defendants from disseminating match information, but
rather, only be the basis for a restitutionary award. Importantly, the
property interest claimed by the plaintiff under the hot news
doctrine/doctrine of FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 66 unfair
competition is conceptually distinct from the claim of unjust enrichment.
Whereas the former (if considered to be a valid claim) provides an interest
that injuncts the defendants from disseminating match information (thereby
classifying the defendant actions as wrongful), the latter does not contain
any finding of wrongdoing, but rather, is a purely restitutionary remedy that
requires the defendant to return the profit (the principle being to "disgorge"
the defendant of its profits, rather than compensate the plaintiff for any
right violated). That restitution for unjust enrichment (relied on by Star) is
distinct from restitution for wrongdoing is a well-settled proposition
affirmed recently by the Canadian Supreme Court in Kingstreet Investments Ltd.
v. New Brunswick, [2007] 1 SCR 3:

> "There are at least two distinct categories of restitution: (1) restitution
> for wrongdoing; and (2) restitution for unjust enrichment"

The (then) UK House of Lords in Sempra Metal Ltd. v. HMRC, [2007] UKHL 34
(Lord Nicholls, paragraph 116, Lord Scott, paragraphs 132-146; Lord Mance,
paragraphs 230-1) approved the same view:

> "In the modern terminology these are instances of restitution for wrongdoing
> as distinct from restitution for unjust enrichment."

> "If the distinction between claims for compensation for loss on the one hand
> and claims for restitution on unjust enrichment grounds on the other hand is
> not recognised, incoherence of legal principle will, in my opinion, be the
> result." "... a claim for "relief from the consequences of a mistake" -

and is not a claim for "restitutionary" damages or restitutionary relief
consequent on a wrong. The distinction is important. It was a corner stone of
the late Professor Birks FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 67 QC's last
work, Unjust Enrichment (2nd ed.) (2005). He observed at p. 11, "The most
important feature of mistaken payments is the absence of contract and wrong",
and it is necessary to "isolate" and draw "a careful line" around cases of
unjust enrichment which are "not manifestations of consent and are not
wrongs". Professor Burrows in The Law of Restitution (2nd Ed.) (2002) draws
the same distinction. He deals in chapter 1 with the "unjust enrichment
principle and its four essential elements" and, quite separately, in chapter
14 with "restitution for wrongs" where he discusses all of the cases
identified in the previous paragraph of this opinion which had been decided by
2002. His introduction to chapter 14, at p 455, points out that "the
distinction between restitution for wrongs and unjust enrichment by
subtraction [i.e. enrichment "at the expense of the claimant"] reflects
different moral ideas." This is not to say that unjust enrichment serves only
to reverse an accrual and never prevent it (see, Burrows, A Restatement of the
English Law on Unjust Enrichment 40 (Oxford University Press, 2012). However,
those limited circumstances - as exceptions to the rule - do not arise in this
case.

67\. Finally, even if we were to consider the unjust enrichment claim on the
facts before the Court, Star‟s claim is prima facie untenable. A claim for
unjust enrichment rests - as is beyond question - on three prongs: (a)
enrichment of the defendant, (b) "at the expense" of the claimant, (c) an
"unjust factor" in allowing the retention of such benefit. (see, Burrows et.
al., A Restatement of the English Law of Unjust Enrichment 44 (Oxford, Oxford
University Press, 2012)); Birks, An Introduction to the Law of Restitution
16-8 (Clarendon Press, Oxford 1989)).

68\. Accepting this formulation, in Sahakari Khand Udyog Mandal Ltd. v. CCE &
Customs, (2005) 3 SCC 738, the Supreme Court elaborated upon the aspect of
unjust enrichment stating:

FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 68 "31. Stated simply, "unjust
enrichment" means retention of a benefit by a person that is unjust or
inequitable. "Unjust enrichment" occurs when a person retains money or
benefits which in justice, equity and good conscience, belong to someone else.

32\. The doctrine of "unjust enrichment", therefore, is that no person can be
allowed to enrich inequitably at the expense of another. A right of recovery
under the doctrine of "unjust enrichment" arises where retention of a benefit
is considered contrary to justice or against equity ..."

This position was also approved in Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. & Anr. v. State
of U.P & Ors. (2005) 2 SCC 515, where the Court held that:

> "It was, therefore, submitted that if the appellants are allowed to retain
> the amounts collected by them towards luxury tax from consumers, it would
> amount to „unjust enrichment‟ by them. In our opinion, the submission is
> well founded and deserves to be upheld. If the appellants have collected any
> amount towards luxury tax from consumers/customers after obtaining interim
> orders from this Court, they will pay the said amounts to the respective
> State Governments."

Most recently, this was accepted the Supreme Court in Indian Council for
Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India, 2011 (7) SCALE 768 at paragraphs
169-173 (as the Supreme Court notes, "a person is enriched if he has received
a benefit, and he is unjustly enriched if retention of the benefit would be
unjust"). Equally, the decision relied on by the plaintiff/respondents, i.e.
Mahabir Kishore, is one example of the restitutionary nature of the unjust
enrichment principle recognised in India, where it is invariably used to
recover money. The appellant had paid over Rs. 54,000/- as "mahua" over and
above the auction money to the State government. This was despite such
extraction or recovery having been declared illegal; the appellant filed a
writ petition for its recovery. The FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 69
Supreme Court upheld the claim, stating that:

> "The principle of unjust enrichment requires; first, that the defendant has
> been „enriched‟ by the receipt of a "benefit"; secondly, that this
> enrichment is "at the expense of the plaintiff" and thirdly, that the
> retention of the enrichment be unjust. This justified restitution.
> Enrichment may take the form of direct advantage to the recipient wealth
> such as by the receipt of money or indirect one for instance where
> inevitable expense has been saved..."

In all these cases, however, the Court did not have the opportunity to delve
into the question of the precise boundaries of what such „unjust factors‟
could be. Here, the observations of Lord Goff in Lipkin Gorman v. Karpnale
Limited, [1991] 2 AC 548 are crucial:

> "But it does not, in my opinion, follow that the court has carte blanche to
> reject the solicitors' claim simply because it thinks it unfair or unjust in
> the circumstances to grant recovery. The recovery of money in restitution is
> not, as a general rule, a matter of discretion for the court. A claim to
> recover money at common law is made as a matter of right; and even though
> the underlying principle of recovery is the principle of unjust enrichment,
> nevertheless, where recovery is denied, it is denied on the basis of legal
> principle. It is therefore necessary to consider whether Mr. Lightman‟s
> submission can be upheld on the basis of legal principle ..."

In failing to provide any clear unjust factor, as also in not addressing
whether the benefit gained by the defendants was „at the plaintiff‟s expense‟,
(both crucial legal requirements for a claim of unjust enrichment, as opposed
to a broad reference to the fairness and justness of the plaintiff‟s claim),
the approach of the Learned Single errs in its findings on this issue.

69\. If one were to deal with this issue afresh - two questions arise: first,
have the defendants, though undeniably benefiting from the dissemination of
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 70 match information, been so benefited
"at the expense of" Star; and secondly, if so, does the retention of such
benefit present any unjust factor? On the first question, Star must
demonstrate that the defendants‟ enrichment is at its expense. This remains a
well-established and indeed, unchallenged, proposition of law (see, Burrows
et. al., A Restatement of the English Law of Unjust Enrichment 44 (Oxford,
Oxford University Press, 2012). In this case, the defendants‟ dissemination
results purely from resources invested by them in this business, and in no way
results from Star‟s conduct or any expense incurred by it. Star‟s acquisition
of broadcast and related rights from the BCCI, nor Star‟s conduct in any
manner, assists, let alone results, in the defendant‟s gain. Indeed, even
applying the "but-for test", though considered unduly harsh in such cases
(Burrows, supra, p. 46), does not lead to a positive conclusion that „but for‟
Star‟s acquisition of broadcasting and related rights, the defendants would
have been able to operate the services they currently do. Thus, as the benefit
gained by the defendants cannot be said to be „at the expense‟ of Star, the
claim for unjust enrichment is not tenable. Given this, the Court need not
consider the question of whether there exists an „unjust‟ factor in the
retention of such benefit by the defendants.

70\. Here, in the present case, the principle of unjust enrichment is sought
to be relied upon as a claim entitling the plaintiffs to the equitable remedy
of injunction. Apart from the reasons discussed above, i.e., preclusion of
such claims on account of a specific statutory copyright regime, and the
absence of any merit in such plea, the court notices that no authority relied
upon by the plaintiffs supports the view they propound approving the grant of
such injunction. Even the Marksman case does not support the view that in such
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 71 cases, the publication of such
information, amounts to the third party unjustly enriching itself at the
broadcaster (or broadcasters‟ licensee‟s) expense.

71\. Grant of injunctions can be to secure an object protected by law. It can
also be to restrain the defendant from engaging in conduct injurious to the
plaintiffs‟ property. In some circumstances, the relationship or past
relationship of parties (status, such as matrimony, or contractual such as
agent, employee, partner, etc.) may entail that either of them refrain from
disclosing facts or information - which can in turn be based upon the terms,
express or implied governing such relationship (a claim in contract, or as in
this case, tort (of unfair competition), and finally, unjust enrichment).
Sections 38 and 39 of the Specific Relief Act empower the civil court, in
exercise of its jurisdiction, to issue injunctions. Although, textually,
Section 39 talks of mandatory injunction and does not advert to statute based
rights, it speaks of such remedy being available to "prevent the breach of an
obligation" existing in favour of the claimant. While the last two
illustrations to the Section 38 suggests that obligations not spelt out in
express terms and not found in either contract or statute, but arising out of
the relationship or the peculiar conditions are enforceable through
injunction, as is clear from the above discussion, none of those conditions
exist to entitle the plaintiff to the injunction.

72\. Accordingly, for the above reasons, this court is of opinion that the
plaintiffs cannot claim an injunction based on either the doctrine of unfair
competition or unjust enrichment.

73\. The above discussion would have been dispositive of the issues which
arose for consideration in this case. However, it would be appropriate that
FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 72 this court deals with one aspect which
was brushed aside by the learned single judge. The Appellants had argued that
their right to freedom of speech and expression and their right to freedom of
trade under Article 19 (1) (a) and (g) could not be interfered with in the
absence of any law. This submission was rejected by the learned single judge,
saying that reasonable restrictions can be imposed upon such rights. However,
as a concluding note, it is important to remember the broader context in which
Courts decide such disputes. The creation of any right or indeed defining the
contours of a right through judicial intervention is an exercise with
implications that travel beyond the peculiar facts of the case before the
Court. While pronouncing upon a principle of law (especially one as potent as
the doctrine of „unfair competition‟), the Court must keep in mind the
constitutional implications of the right sought to be created, in this case,
upon the right to freedom of speech. Recognizing the doctrine of unfair
competition would inevitably restrict the defendants‟ (as also others rights
in future cases) ability to disseminate information, undoubtedly a crucial
component of Article 19(1)(a). This is not to say that the doctrine of „unfair
competition‟ is to be rejected in Indian law on account of an Article 19(1)(a)
violation, nor to say that the defendant‟s freedom of speech cannot be
curtailed by the doctrine under any circumstance, but only to make the
limited, but crucial, point that Courts must be cautious in creating doctrines
and rights that have such clear implications for constitutional rights, better
leaving such matters to the law- making domain of the legislative branch, that
may result in a coherent legislation that creates a framework within which any
curtailment of Constitutional rights is to take place. Indeed, in such cases,
it is open for any FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 & 161/2013 Page 73 aggrieved party to
question that legislative action as against Part III of the Constitution, and
against the entire range of constitutional rights, by approaching the courts.
But it is that path - of a legislative action open to review by the Courts as
against specific and limited negative covenants imbibed in the Constitution -
which best represents the mechanism for creation of rights that have
constitutional implications, rather than judicial indulgence in entering that
exercise itself. Indeed, restraint as a judicial policy neither does nor
should translate into a symbol of reticence, but rather one of wisdom in
recognizing the important role that courts must play within the sphere
allotted to them. In other words, the Constitution visualizes that
restrictions, saved by virtue of Articles 19 (2) and 19 (6) are in terms of
enacted law, and not judge-declared fiats Doing what the plaintiff invites
this court to do would be to enclose from the public match facts and
information which are not protectable in any manner known to law. Such an
injunction would tend to insidiously, and in a creeping manner, denude the
fundamental right to free speech and dissemination of topical information to
members of the public.

74\. In view of the above discussion, it is held that the plaintiffs claim for
ad interim injunction on all counts, i.e. ownership of facts based on the "hot
news" principle and the claims for unfair competition and unjust enrichment
cannot be granted. Prima facie, it is also held that claims so made are
statutorily precluded. Consequently, the impugned judgment and order of the
learned Single Judge has to be and is set aside. The three appeals i.e. FAO
(OS) No.153/2013, FAO (OS) No.160/2013, and FAO (OS) No.161/2013 are therefore
allowed. All pending applications stand disposed FAO(OS) Nos.153, 160 &
161/2013 Page 74 off. In the circumstances, there shall be no order as to
costs.

S. RAVINDRA BHAT (JUDGE) NAJMI WAZIRI (JUDGE) AUGUST 30, 2013 FAO(OS) Nos.153,
160 & 161/2013 Page 75

