

Delhi High Court

Chryscapital Investment ... vs Deputy Commissioner Of Income Tax on 27 April,
2015

Author: S.Ravindra Bhat

    
    
    $~
    *        IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
                                                          Reserved on: 26.03.2015
                                                        Pronounced on: 27.04.2015
    +        ITA 417/2014
             CHRYSCAPITAL INVESTMENT ADVISORS (INDIA) PVT. LTD.
                                                            ............Appellant
                        Through: Sh. Vikas Srivastava, Sh. Parag Mohanty and
                        Ms. Varsha Bhattacharya, Advocates.
    
                    Versus
    
             DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX
                                                  .................Respondent

Through: Sh. Rohit Madan, Sh. Ruchir Bhatia and Sh. P. Roy Choudhary,
Advocates.

CORAM:

HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE R.K. GAUBA MR.
JUSTICE S. RAVINDRA BHAT % "A phrase begins life as a literary expression; its
felicity leads to its lazy repetition; and repetition soon establishes it as a
legal formula, undiscriminatingly used to express different and sometimes
contradictory ideas".

\- Justice Felix Frankfurter in Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co.,
318 U.S. 54 (1943)

1\. Is there a concept of "super profit" in the arm‟s length price/transfer
price determining process under the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") or the
Rules framed thereunder, entitling tax administrators to include high profit
ITA 417/2014 Page 1 making companies‟ data in the list of "comparables"?
Benches of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ("ITAT"), appear to be riven in their
opinion on this; it is the subject matter of the present appeal.

2\. The questions framed for decision in this appeal, under Section 260-A of
the Act, arising from an order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ("ITAT")
dated 20.12.2013 in ITA No. 6183/Del/2012 for assessment year (AY) 2008-09,
are as follows:

> 1) Whether the proviso to Rule 10B(4) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 will be
> applicable in case of fluctuations in the operating profit margins of
> comparable companies during the relevant financial year under question as
> compared to earlier years?

> 2) Whether comparables can be rejected on the ground that they have
> exceptionally high profit margins as compared to the assessee in transfer
> pricing analysis?

> 3) Whether factors like differential functional and risk profile coupled
> with high degree of volatility in operating profit margins is sufficient
> ground to reject comparables for transfer pricing analysis?

> 4) Whether disallowances can be made under Section 36(1)(ii) when the bonus
> paid to shareholders is not in the exact proportion of their shareholding
> and there is no avoidance of taxes?

3\. The assessee is a private limited company incorporated under the Companies
Act, 1956 and is engaged in providing investment advisory services, which were
reimbursed on a cost-plus mark-up basis. Ashish Dhawan and Kunal Shroff, in
the concerned assessment year, were its two shareholders - holding shares in
the assessee in the proportion of 2:l; they were also its full time employees.
In AY 2008-09, the assessee entered into international transactions with
associated enterprises (AEs) relating to ITA 417/2014 Page 2 advisory services
and reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of AEs amounting to `
56,61,99,829/- and ` 4,49,72,912/- respectively. For the purposes of
determination of arm‟s length price (ALP), the assessee used the Transactional
Net Margin Method ("TNMM"). The assessee treated the transactions relating to
reimbursement received by it from its associated enterprises on actual basis
(i.e. without mark-up) at ALP as such since no value addition was done by it
in relation to the said expenses. The assessee identified four entities which
were engaged broadly in the same economic activities as in its case and
identified as comparables. The result of the arm‟s length analysis is given
below:

    
    
           S. No.   Comparable               Operating Profit Margins
                    Entity
                                   2005-06    2006-07   2007-08   Average
               1.   IDFC               -      -55.50% 17.30%      -19.10%
                    Investment
                    Advisors
                    Limited
               2.   Future             -      0.88%     20.53%    10.71%
                    Capital
                    Holdings
                    Limited
               3.   Khandwala      43.35%     42.62%        -     42.99%
                    Securities
                    Limited
               4.   Sumedha        -16.47% -20.36%          -     -18.42%
                    Fiscal
                    Services
                    Limited
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                              Page 3
                    Final Average                                4.04%
    
    
    
    

4\. The assessee‟s position was that because of fluctuation in the margins of
the comparable entities, multiple year data of the comparables was warranted
to remove the effect of year specific aberrations. Against the average
Operating Profit Margin ("Operating Margin") of 4.04% earned by the comparable
entities, the assessee earned an Operating Margin of 27.05% and concluded that
its transactions with its AEs were at arm‟s length. The assessee relied on
Rule 10B(4) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 (hereafter "the Rules"). Rule 10B(4)
reads as follows:

> ―(4) The data to be used in analysing the comparability of an uncontrolled
> transaction with an international transaction or a specified domestic
> transaction shall be the data relating to the financial year in which the
> international transaction or the specified domestic transaction has been
> entered into:

Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior to
such financial year may also be considered if such data reveals facts which
could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices in relation to
the transactions being compared.‖ The assessee argued that using multiple year
data is consistent with the OECD Guidelines as well as transfer pricing
regulations of several developed jurisdictions. The Operating Margin of the
assessee was stable in contrast to the comparable companies, described below:

    
    
                          Financial    Operating
                          Year         Margin
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                            Page 4
                           2005-06      24.15%
                          2006-07      21.14%
                          2007-08      27.05%
                          Average      24.11%
    
    
    

5\. On 30.09.2008, the assessee filed its return for AY 2008-09 declaring a
total income of ` 12,41,83,160. Its case was scrutinized by the AO who
referred the matter to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") under Section 92CA
(3) of the Act. On 03.10.2011, the TPO passed an order recommending transfer
pricing additions of ` 20,93,34,155/- to the income of the Assessee. The TPO
computed the Operating Margins of the four comparables above using single year
data i.e. for FY 2007-08 and ignoring the data for two prior financial years
i.e. 2005-06 and 2006-07 while determining the ALP. The TPO concluded that
multiple year data for the assessee‟s comparables could not be used but
introduced two new comparables with abnormal business profits. The TPO also
retained a comparable inspite of it showing abnormal growth in the assessment
year under consideration and considered reimbursable expenses as part of
operating expenses and corresponding reimbursement as part of operating
revenue of the assessee for the purpose of determining the arm's length price.
The TPO held that the assessee had not furnished any detail as to how the data
for the earlier years had an impact on the profits in the concerned assessment
year of the assessee or the comparables.

6\. Based on the TPO‟s report, the AO passed the assessment order on
21.12.2011, confirming the recommendations of the TPO. The AO also ITA
417/2014 Page 5 disallowed the bonus paid by the assessee to its shareholder
employees - M/s Ashish Dhawan (` 67,91,947) and Kunal Shroff (` 30,19,433) -
under Section 36(l)(ii) of the Act. The assessee filed its objections against
the draft assessment order before the Dispute Resolution Panel ("DRP"). The
DRP, by order dated 21.09.2012, confirmed the transfer pricing additions as
well as the disallowance of the bonus made by the Respondent. Thereafter, on
19.10.2012, the AO completed the assessment under section 143(3) read with
section 144C of the Act assessing the income of the assessee after sustaining
the transfer pricing additions made by the TPO and disallowing the bonus paid
to its shareholders. The ITAT dismissed the Assessee‟s appeal by its order
dated 20.12.2013 and confirmed the additions made by the Respondent.

7\. All the lower authorities included three entities as comparables which had
very high profit margins as compared with that of the assessee. These entities
namely, Brescon Corporate Advisors Limited ("Brescon") (Operating Margin of
87.4%), Keynote Corporate Services Limited ("Keynote") (Operating Margin of
191.58%) and Khandwala Securities Limited ("Khandwala") (Operating Margin of
80.79%) had exceptional profit margins as compared with the Assessee
(Operating Margin of 27.05%) and rejected three other comparables selected by
the assessee (i.e. IDFC Investment Advisors Ltd. (17.35%), Sumedha Fiscal
Services Limited (9.14%) and Future Capital Holdings Limited (20.56%).
Khandwala had been selected as a comparable by the assessee itself based on
the multiple year data for the comparability analysis. However, the TPO
substituted the same with the data for the concerned financial year, in which
Khandwala had exceptionally high profit margins. The ITAT upheld these
findings and ITA 417/2014 Page 6 held that current year data should be used in
the absence of abnormal or exceptional facts/circumstances in existence which
could have an influence on the results as well as the determination of the
transfer prices for the year under consideration. Further, the ITAT held that
Rule 10B does not provide any basis to exclude an entity or eliminate it from
the list of companies solely on the basis of high profitability. The
authorities - including ITAT, held that the decisive factors for determining
inclusion or exclusion of any entity in/from the list of comparables are the
specific characteristics of the services provided by the said entities, assets
employed, risks assumed, the contractual terms and conditions prevailing
including the geographical location and size of the market, cost of labour and
capital in the markets, etc. and high or low profit margins could not be
criteria for inclusion or exclusion of entities in the list of comparables.

Arguments of the assessee

8\. The assessee submits that even if the ITAT‟s ruling on the issue is
accepted, Brescon and Keynote should be excluded from the list of comparables
as its (the assessee‟s) risk profile is not similar to that of those two
companies. They are risk-taking entities whereas the assessee operates on a
cost plus model wherein a guaranteed return of 25% on costs is assured to it.
The assessee further argues that its functional profile is significantly
different from that of Keynote. Unlike the assessee, Keynote is involved in
capital market activities, including lead managing IPOs, Rights Offers,
Buybacks and Takeovers. Also, Keynote considers its activities to be a
Merchant Banker as evidenced by its Director's Report and Notes to Accounts of
the concerned financial year. The assessee submits that in the audited
financials of Keynote, there is no service-wise break-up of profits ITA
417/2014 Page 7 and therefore, the profitability of the advisory services
segment (which may be considered similar to the services being rendered by the
assessee) is not available to be compared with the assessee‟s profitability.
The assessee argues that Keynote's profit margins have shown volatility over
the years which could be attributed to abnormal business conditions and
therefore Keynote should be rejected as a comparable altogether. The Operating
Margins of Keynote for the last 5 years are as follows:-

    
    
                       Assessment Year      Operating Margin
                            2004-05              (-)6.87%
                            2005-06              13.33%
                            2006-07              94.06%
                            2007-08              145.83%
                            2008-09              191.58%
    
    
    
    

9\. The assessee highlights that CIT (Appeals) too had rejected Keynote in a
preceding as well as succeeding assessment year i.e. AY 2007-08 and 2009-10.
Further, Keynote has been excluded as a comparable by the DRP in a preceding
assessment year i.e. AY 2006-07. In that order, dated 04.03.2013, the DRP
observed:

> ―As regards choice of Keynote Corporate services as a comparable by TPO
> based on single year data, DRP finds no infirmity in principles. However,
> after analyzing the economic circumstances as highlighted by the assessee
> and corroborated from the annual report of the year, we do find it may not
> be a robust comparable.

> ITA 417/2014 Page 8 According to the assessee ‗we would like to state that
> this company has very volatile profit margins and since the Ld. TPO has
> computed the ALP on the basis of single year data (data for the FY 2005-06
> only) this company should not be included in the final set of comparable as
> it would lead to distortion of the ALP.' The assessee while determining the
> ALP considered data for three years which mitigated the high volatility in
> operating margins of this company. However on the basis of single year data
> the operating margins of this company will substantially inflate the
> operating margins.

> ―The volatility in the operating margin of this company is clearly evident
> from the three year profitability of the comparables submitted before you
> are the Ld. TPO vide submission dated May 18, 2009 (copy enclosed at page
> 139 of the paper book dated January 01, 2010 filed before the Hon'ble
> Panel). The operating margin of this company during the FY 2003-04 was
> negative 6.87% and which converted to positive 13.33. In the FY 2004-05,
> thereby exhibiting the this margin further increased to 94.06% showing an
> even higher volatility (80 percent points) vis-à-vis previous year.‖ Further
> we would also like to state that Keynote can also not be considered a
> comparable to the assessee (on the basis of single year data) for the reason
> that on the basis of single year data this company is earning exceptionally
> high profits (i.e. 94%). It is further submitted that on the possible
> reasons due to which Keynote has derived exceptional profits during the year
> may be due to some alliances formed by it with some foreign companies during
> the year. The relevant extract (copy enclosed as Annexure

> 3) from the annual report of Keynote is given hereunder: The company formed
> alliances with a Middle East based consulting company and with a Swiss based
> consulting company to offer its clients cross border transaction ability.

Thus, the exceptional profit earned by Keynote during the relevant year may be
due to such alliance formed by Keynote with other companies in Middle East and
Swiss. The profit ITA 417/2014 Page 9 earned by it due to such alliance cannot
be used for the arm's length analysis.‖ 2.3.4 In view of the above reasons,
the DRP directs TPO to exclude this comparable as it is not a robust
comparable for this year. TP grounds are accordingly disposed off as above.‖

10\. On the issue of disallowance of bonuses paid by the assessee to its two
full-time shareholder employees, it is submitted that bonuses were paid to all
its employees during the relevant financial year on the basis of their
performance and qualifications. Both the individuals to whom the bonuses paid
were disallowed have requisite qualifications, experience and expertise in the
field of investment advisory services. Accordingly, keeping in view their
experience, expertise and performance, the assessee had compensated them. The
assessee submits that bonus under Section 36(1)(ii) of the Act is allowed as
deduction if the same amount would not have been payable to the shareholders
as profits or dividends if it had not been paid as bonus. The provision
requires the sum paid as bonus to be exactly the same as to be payable as
dividend in absence of the bonus for there to be a disallowance. The assessee
submits that the bonus paid to the shareholder employees is not in the same
proportion as their shareholding. It is also submitted that the basis for
disallowance of bonus paid - that no dividend was declared by the assessee -
is incorrect as it paid interim dividend amounting to ` 5,47,47,000/- in the
concerned assessment year. Thus, the bonus paid to the two shareholders was
not in lieu of dividend and therefore, should be allowed as tax deductible
expenditure.

11\. Learned counsel argued that the ALP of an international transaction has
to be determined by applying one of the methods provided in section 92- C (3)
of the Act; it should be the most appropriate method and should also ITA
417/2014 Page 10 take into account prescribed factors. This is, counsel
stated, elaborated in Rule 10-B of the Rules, which contemplates adjustment on
account of functional and other differences. He contended that adopting of any
method ultimately envisages comparison of like functions, transactions and
enterprises. Rule 10B(2)(a) provides that specific characteristic of services
rendered by the two entities should be compared in order to treat the same as
comparables for the purpose of transfer pricing analysis. Counsel also
referred to the OECD guidelines and argued that accurate ALP determination is
dependent on flexibility and sound exercise of discretion. Chapter III of the
OECD guidelines was relied on to say that they recommend that where can it be
determined that some uncontrolled transactions have a lesser degree of
comparability than others, they should be eliminated. He also referred to
Section A-5 of OECD guidelines on ―selecting and rejecting potential
comparables‖ and pointed out that as per para 3.56, wherever uncontrolled
transactions have a lesser degree of comparability than others, they should be
eliminated. Counsel stated that similarly, Para 3.57 states that if the range
of comparables includes a sizeable number of observations, statistical tools
that take account of central tendency to narrow the range (e.g. the inter-
quartile range or other percentiles); Para 3.59 suggests that where the
application of the most appropriate method produces a range of figures, a
substantial deviation among points in that range may indicate that the data
used in establishing some of the points may not be as reliable as the data
used to establish the other points in the range or that the deviation may
result from features of the comparable data that require adjustments.

ITA 417/2014 Page 11

12\. Learned counsel also relied on A.7.3 of the OECD guidelines dealing with
―extreme results in the context of comparability considerations‖ to point out
that extreme results might consist of losses or unusually high profits. These
can affect the financial indicators that are looked at in the chosen method;
some potential comparables have extreme results, further examination would be
needed to probe such results. This important issue was overlooked by ITAT.
Counsel relied on proviso to Rule 10-B (4) and stated that though the mandate
of the law is ordinarily to rely upon comparables' data for the current year,
in certain circumstances, it is possible for the authorities to rely on
previous years' data restricted to two previous years. This is to eliminate
any distorted picture which might be the consequence of adherence to the
contemporaneous data, like in the present case.

13\. It was argued that the DRP's order for AY 2006-07 had accepted the
assessee's argument and excluded Keynote from the list of comparables, on the
ground that the said concern had earned abnormally high or super profits. On
that occasion, as compared with its previous year (AY 2005-06) profit level of
94%, the profit of the enterprise was 145%, registering a 51% increase over
the previous year. This was considered to be too high to be allowed as a
comparable. During the current year, the profit registered was 191%. In the
circumstances, it was illogical and arbitrary for the revenue to have rejected
the contention that data in respect of Keynote should have been excluded. It
was also similarly argued that the ITAT fell into error in rejecting the
assessee's objection with respect to Brescon whose total turnover was over `
14 crores, of which the comparable business was only ` 2 crores; the absence
of any sectional data with regard to this company, ITA 417/2014 Page 12 meant
that its activities were not comparable, on a fair application of Rule 10-B
(2) and (3).

14\. Learned counsel relied on the decisions of the Special Bench in the case
of Quark Systems Private Limited v. DCIT (2010 38 SOT 307- Chandigarh Bench)
Adobe Systems India Pvt. Ltd. (Del) 2011-(TII)-13- ITAT-DEL); Teva India (P)
Ltd v. DCIT, [2011] 44 SOT 105 (Mum); Sapient Corporation (P) Ltd. v. Deputy
CIT, [2011] 11 Taxmann 69 (Delhi); Asst CIT vs. Maersk Global Services Centre
(India) P. Ltd. (133 ITD

543)(Mum.); Symantec Software Solutions (P) Ltd. v. Assistant CIT [2012] 25
Taxmann 163 (Mum); and a Division Bench decision of this court, in
Commissioner of Income Tax v Agnity India Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (2013) 219
Taxman 26 (Del), were relied on. In Agnity India (supra) it was held that huge
turnover companies like Infosys and Wipro cannot be considered as comparable
to smaller companies like assessee.

15\. Learned counsel for the assessee also argued that the rejection of
previous years‟ data, in the facts of the present case, was unwarranted. It
was submitted that given that the comparables introduced by the TPO distorted
the margins, the AO and DRP erred in determining the ALP on the basis of data
for financial year 2007-08 only and ignoring the data for two prior financial
years i.e. FY 2005-06 and FY 2006-07. Learned counsel submitted that the TPO
had the option of reaching back to previous years‟ data, since such power
exists by virtue of proviso to Rule 10B (4). Learned counsel also relied on
Part B.3, Paras 3.75 to 3.78 of OECD guidelines, in support of the submission.

    
    
           Revenue's contentions
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                          Page 13
    

16\. Mr. Rohit Madan, learned counsel for the revenue argued that five methods
have been prescribed to determine ALP in relation to an international
transaction and the comparability analysis requirements are method specific
under Rule 10-B (1). Referring to the said Rule it was submitted that price
charged or paid for the property transferred or service rendered in the
comparable transaction is relevant in case of CUP and re- sale price method
while the cost of production incurred in respect of property transferred or
services provided is relevant for cost plus method. However, there is no
mention of any property transferred or services provided in case of TNMM. They
are provided for other methods. He contended that the relevant Rule thus makes
it clear that specific characterization of the property transferred or
services is not relevant for TNMM and this position is in conformity with the
relevant OECD guidelines which suggest that broad comparability of functions
should be done for TNMM.

17\. Countering the submissions of the assessee, it was argued that neither
the Act, nor the Rule contemplate exclusion of relevant transactions of like
enterprises, in any manner other than what is prescribed. It was argued here
that a comparable cannot be removed from consideration merely because it
suffers loss; likewise, a unit or enterprise which enjoys higher profit (than
the assessee or a significantly high profit in the industry) or even one
making a so called "super profit" too cannot be eliminated. Generally, both
loss making units and high profit making units cannot be removed from the list
of comparables unless, such removal is statutorily permitted by Rule 10- B (2)
or (3). Counsel also submitted that this is also evident from a reading of
Rule 10-C. It was pointed out that Rule 10B (3) (ii) and Rule 10 C (2)(e) ITA
417/2014 Page 14 permitted adjustment to eliminate material defects of the
difference between the assessee and comparables. Counsel argued that only
those factors which result in material difference in the comparables of
transactions as between the assessee and the unrelated transaction or the
third party enterprise, have to be reasonably adjusted to avoid distortions
under the said provisions. The step envisioned there had to be necessarily
followed keeping in view the mandate "shall".

18\. It was also argued that the decision in Commissioner Of Income Tax v
Mentor Graphics (Noida) Pvt.Ltd (ITA 1114/2008, decided by this court on
04-04-2013) has held that OECD guidelines cannot be applied because there are
specific provisions of Rule 10B (2) & (3) and the first proviso to Section
92C(2) which apply. There, it was held that having held that the comparables
given by the assessee were to be accepted and those searched by the TPO were
to be rejected, the only option then left to the ITAT was to derive the
arithmetical mean of the profit level indicators of the comparables. It was
submitted that accepting the theory of "abnormally high profits" as a ground
for rejection of a comparable would lead to vagueness and confusion because
what constitutes abnormally high has nowhere been spelt out in the Act or
rules. On the other hand, the margin of variation permitted is ± 3% (proviso
to Section 92C (2), reduced from the 5% margin that existed earlier).
Introduction of any other variation not based in law would not be justified.

    
    
    
           Analysis & Conclusions
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                            Page 15
    

19\. Section 92-C which is relevant, for the purpose of determining ALP inter
alia, reads as follows:

> "92C. (1) The arm's length price in relation to an international transaction
> [or specified domestic transaction] shall be determined by any of the
> following methods, being the most appropriate method, having regard to the
> nature of transaction or class of transaction or class of associated persons
> or functions performed by such persons or such other relevant factors as the
> Board may prescribe, namely :-

> (a)comparable uncontrolled price method;

> (b) resale price method;

> (c)cost plus method;

> (d)profit split method;

> (e)transactional net margin method;

> (f)such other method as may be prescribed by the Board. (2) The most
> appropriate method referred to in sub-section (1) shall be applied, for
> determination of arm's length price, in the manner as may be prescribed:

> Provided that where more than one price is determined by the most
> appropriate method, the arm's length price shall be taken to be the
> arithmetical mean of such prices:

> ** ** ** (3) Where during the course of any proceeding for the assessment of
> income, the Assessing Officer is, on the basis of material or information or
> document in his possession, of the opinion that-

> ITA 417/2014 Page 16

> (a) the price charged or paid in an international transaction [or specified
> domestic transaction] has not been determined in accordance with sub-
> sections (1) and (2); or

> (b)any information and document relating to an international transaction [or
> specified domestic transaction] have not been kept and maintained by the
> assessee in accordance with the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of
> section 92D and the rules made in this behalf; or

> (c)the information or data used in computation of the arm's length price is
> not reliable or correct; or

> (d)the assessee has failed to furnish, within the specified time, any
> information or document which he was required to furnish by a notice issued
> under sub-section (3) of section 92D, the Assessing Officer may proceed to
> determine the arm's length price in relation to the said international
> transaction [or specified domestic transaction] in accordance with sub-
> sections (1) and (2), on the basis of such material or information or
> document available with him:

> Provided that an opportunity shall be given by the Assessing Officer by
> serving a notice calling upon the assessee to show cause, on a date and time
> to be specified in the notice, why the arm's length price should not be so
> determined on the basis of material or information or document in the
> possession of the Assessing Officer."

20\. Section 92C(1) thus visualizes determination of the "arms-length price"
(ALP) by any of five enumerated methods, ―being the most appropriate method‖,
having regard to the ―nature of transaction or class of transaction or class
of associated persons or functions performed by such persons or such other
relevant factors as the board may prescribe, namely

(a) comparable uncontrolled price method, (b) resale price method, (c) cost \+
method, (d) profit split method, (e) transactional net margin method, (f) ITA
417/2014 Page 17 any such other method as may be prescribed by the board.
Where more than one price is determined by the most appropriate method, the
arm's length price shall be taken to be arithmetical mean of such prices.‖

21\. Rule 10B of the Rules prescribes the determination of arm's length price
under Section 92C. The first step in all methods is evaluation of differences
between the international transaction undertaken with the ―unrelated
enterprise performing the comparable functions‖ in similar circumstances. Rule
10B of the Income-tax Rules inter alia, provides for various methods for
determination of the arm's length price. Rule 10B (1)

(e) prescribes the "transactional net margin method" (TNMM) with which the
present case is concerned. Rule 10B (1) (e) (i) is as under:

> "10B. (1) Determination of arm's length price under section 92C :-- . .

> ************* *********

> (e) transactional net margin method, by which,--

> (i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international
> transaction entered into with an associated enterprise is computed in
> relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed or to be
> employed by the enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base."

22\. These provisions prescribe, therefore, that even under the TNMM,
importance is given to "assets employed or to be employed" as relevant factors
for consideration. Rule 10B (2), as the second step, requires application of
functions, asset, risk test for judging comparability of international
transaction with an uncontrolled transaction. It provides:

ITA 417/2014 Page 18 "10B (2). For the purposes of sub-rule (1), the
comparability of an international transaction with an uncontrolled transaction
shall be judged with reference to the following, namely :--

(a) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services
provided in either transaction ;

(b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed or to be
employed and the risks assumed, by the respective parties to the transactions
;

(c) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in writing)
of the transactions which lay down explicitly or implicitly how the
responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between the respective
parties to the transactions ;

(d) conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective parties to
the transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of the
markets, the laws and the Government orders in force, costs of labour and
capital in the markets, overall economic development and level of competition
and whether the markets are wholesale or retail.

(e) the extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to
account for differences, if any, between the international transaction or the
specified domestic transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transaction or
between the enterprises entering into such transactions;

(f) the nature, extent and reliability of assumptions required to be made in
application of a method."

Rule 10B (3) stipulates the third step, and spells out when the TPO is obliged
to hold an uncontrolled transaction as comparable with others. This provision
reads as follows:

> ―(3) An uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to an international
> transaction or a specified domestic transaction if-

> ITA 417/2014 Page 19

> (i) none of the differences, if any, between the transactions being
> compared, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions are
> likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid in, or the
> profit arising from, such transactions in the open market; or

> (ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
> effects of such differences.‖ Rule 10B (4) provides what should be the basis
> of the calculations in terms of data, its contemporaneity, etc. It
> stipulates that:

> ―(4) The data to be used in analysing the comparability of an uncontrolled
> transaction with an international transaction shall be the data relating to
> the financial year in which the international transaction has been entered
> into:

> Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior
> to such financial year may also be considered if such data reveals facts
> which could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices in
> relation to the transactions being compared.‖

> 23\. The assessee's argument is that entities earning "super normal" or
> "abnormal" profits should be excluded from the list of comparables. For this
> purpose, it relied on several rulings of various Benches of the ITAT. These
> are Adobe Systems India (P) Ltd. v. Additional Commissioner of Income-tax,
> [2011] 44 SOT 49 (Delhi) Teva India (P) Ltd v. DCIT, [2011] 44 SOT 105
> (Mum); Sapient Corporation (P) Ltd. v. Deputy CIT, [2011] 11 Taxmann 69
> (Delhi); Asst CIT vs. Maersk Global Services Centre (India) P. Ltd. (133 ITD
> 543)(Mum.); Symantec Software Solutions (P) Ltd. v. Assistant CIT [2012] 25
> Taxmann 163 (Mum); and a Division Bench ruling of this court in CIT v.
> Agnity India Technologies (P) Ltd. [2013] 36 Taxmann 289 (Del ITA 417/2014
> Page 20 HC). Besides, this court notices that a similar reasoning - of
> applying what is known as the "turnover" filter or the exclusion of
> "superprofit" making companies reasoning was applied in Continuous Computing
> India (P) Ltd.

vs. ITO (2012) (52 SOT 45)(Bang)(URO); Centillium India P. Ltd vs. DCIT
(2012)(20 ITR 69) (Bang)(Tri.) and Addl CIT vs. Frost and Sullivan India (P)
Ltd (supra). The revenue has on the other hand, relied on contrary views in
Actis Advisers P. Ltd. v. Deputy CIT [2012] 20 ITR (Trib) 138 (Delhi); 24/7
Customer.Com.Pvt.Ltd. v. Deputy CIT [2013] 21 ITR (Trib) 514 (Bang) and Willis
Processing Services (I) P. Ltd. v. Deputy CIT [2014] 30 ITR (Trib) 39 (Mum).
Such views are echoed in Trilogy E-Business Software India P. Ltd. v. Deputy
CIT [2013] 23 ITR (Trib) 464 (Bang) and Stream International Services P. Ltd.
v. Asst. DIT (International Taxation) [2013] 23 ITR (Trib) 70 (Mum) too.

24\. Before analysing the relative strengths of the rival contentions, a
tabular statement containing the reasoning which persuaded various Benches of
the ITAT to conclude one way or the other is reproduced below:

    
    
    S.             Judgment          Finding                 Rationale
    No.
          1. ITO v. Saunay      1.     One of the The excluded comparable had a
    

Jewels (P) Ltd., four comparables gross profit margin of 53.81% [2010] 42 SOT
2 chosen by the TPO which was abnormal profits.

    
    
             (Mum).             (Sovereign
                                Diamonds        Ltd.)
                                should be excluded.
                                2.     Simple
                                arithmetic average
                                of    gross    profit
                                margin cannot be
                                adopted as there is
                                a wide variation in
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                          Page 21
                             the      parameters.
                            Weighted average
                            should be taken.
       2. Adobe Systems 1. Directed the                The said entities had shown
          India (P) Ltd. v. exclusion of three         supernormal      profits.     By
          Additional        entities         as        excluding      these       three
          Commissioner of comparables.                 companies, the arithmetic mean
          Income-tax,                                  of OP/TC comes to 17.15%,
          [2011] 44 SOT                                which falls within the +-5%
          49 (Delhi)                                   range as permitted by s. 92C(2).
                                                       Further, the DRP has passed a
                                                       cursory       order   without
                                                       examining the submissions of
                                                       the assessee.
       3. Teva India (P)      Remitted the matter      M/s Vimta Labs had earned
          Ltd v. DCIT,        to the AO to decide      supernormal profits. The ITAT
          [2011] 44 SOT       the issue of inclusion   noted the decision in Adobe
          105 (Mum).          of M/s Vimta Labs        Systems and directed the matter
                              as a comparable          to be decided in light of that
                                                       decision and taking into account
                                                       the submissions of the assessee.
       4. Sapient             Directed           the   TPO cannot exclude all loss
          Corporation (P)     exclusion of one of      making      comparables   and
          Ltd. v. Deputy      the     comparables      include an entity (Zenith)
          CIT, [2011] 11      considered by the        making supernormal profits at
          Taxmann      69     TPO            (Zenith   the same time.
          (Delhi)             Infotech Ltd.)
                                                       Zenith is predominantly a
                                                       software product company
                                                       whereas the assessee is a
                                                       software development services
                                                       company and a software
                                                       product company shows higher
                                                       margin.
       5. Nortel Networks     Affirmed       the A concern will not lose its status
    

India (P) Ltd. v. exclusion of M/s merely because it is a loss-

    
    
          Additional CIT,     Arraycom    as   a making entity. However, TPO
          [2013]        36    comparable.        has not excluded Arraycom for
          Taxmann      439                       the sole reason that it is a loss-
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                                Page 22
             (Delhi)                                 making entity but because it has
                                                    been showing persistent losses.
                              Further held that the Its operation also has a
                              TPO has adequately reducing tendency.
                              factored          the
                              subjective elements
                              in determining the
                              ALP.                  In the absence of exceptional
                                                    circumstances, previous year
                                                    data under the proviso to Rule
                                                    10B(4) cannot be used.
       6. Carlyle     India   Directed         the   Keynote was into merchant
          Advisors (P) Ltd.   exclusion of, inter    banking whereas the assessee
          v.     Additional   alia,      Keynote     provided investment advisory
          CIT, ITA No.        Corporate Services     and related support services.
          7901/Mum/2011       Ltd. and S.R.E.I
          dated               Capital Markets Ltd.
          04/04/2012.         as comparable          SREI Caps' core business was
                                                     merchant      banking    and
                                                     consultancy income accounted
                                                     for only 0.27% of the total
                                                     income.
    
    
                                                     Absence of segmental data
                                                     insofar as the investment
                                                     advisory service provided by the
                                                     assessee is concerned led to the
                                                     exclusion of comparables.
       7. Deputy CIT v.       Inclusion of Vishal Assessee derived its income
          Deloitte            Information         from software development and
          Consulting India    Technology Limited IT enabled services.
          Pvt. Ltd., ITA      as a comparable
          No.                 was not incorrect.
          1082/Hyd/2010                         Assessee itself argued before the
          dated 22/07/2011                      TPO that VTIL is a comparable
                              Wipro cannot be a company offering IT enabled
                              comparable.       services.
                                                     The    intangibles   will      not
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                                 Page 23
                                                      materially affect the price or
                                                     profit-earning     [within  the
                              Previous year data     meaning of Rule 10B(3)]. No
                              can be used for        two comparable companies can
                              comparables     only   be replicas of each other. Rule
                              under    exceptional   10B should be applied on a
                              circumstances.         broader perspective and not
                                                     with technical rigour.
                                                     Wipro cannot be a comparable
                                                     as its turnover is 20 times that
                                                     of the assessee.
       8. Symantec            Two entities (ICC      These entities were required to
          Software            International          be excluded on account of
          Solutions     (P)   Agricultural   Ltd.    significantly higher operating
          Ltd. v. Assistant   and TSR Darashaw       margins (82.92% and 78.29%)
          CIT, [2012] 25      Ltd.) were directed    whereas the next highest was
          Taxmann      163    to be excluded as      26.67%. Thus, unless it was
          (Mum).              comparables.           demonstrated that these super
                                                     normal profits were earned in
                                                     the normal routine of activities,
                                                     they could not be included.
       9. Sony India (P)      Upheld           the   Exclusion may not be justified
          Ltd. v. Deputy      revenue's decision     on the mere ground of loss and
          CIT, [2008] 114     to exclude Godrej as   competition. However, on the
          ITD 448 (Delhi)     a comparable.          facts of the case, a number of
                                                     factors have the cumulative
                                                     effect of justifying Godrej's
                              Reversed         the   exclusion. These are: Godrej
    

revenue's finding on makes refrigerators and not inclusion on TVs, it has
suffered huge losses Videocon as a over a period of several years, comparable.
had huge unutilized capacity, needs financial restructuring, joint venture of
the company stands terminated, etc. Re inclusion of Videocon, there are
material differences which ITA 417/2014 Page 24 cannot be eliminated within
the meaning of Rule 10B(3). Thus, Videocon has to be excluded as a comparable.

10\. Philips Software Companies with An entity making supernormal Centre v.
ACIT, supernormal profits profits cannot be a comparable.

    
    
           [2008] 26 SOT       should have been       If at all it were to be considered
           226 (Bang.)         excluded from the      as a comparable, appropriate
                               list of comparables    adjustments to the material
                               by the TPO.            differences would have to be
                                                      made. However, normalization
                                                      of the margins of super profit
                                                      making companies is not
                                                      envisaged on an ad hoc basis
                                                      and has to be done as per the
                                                      law.
    
    
                                                      The assessee was a captive
                                                      contract service provider and it
                                                      did not bear any business and
                                                      operational risks
       11. E-gain              Excluded Thirdware The margin of profit shown by
           Communication       Solutions Ltd. and these    two   entities   was
           (P) Ltd. v. ITO,    WTI       Advanced extraordinary.
           [2008] 23 SOT       Technology      as
           385 (Pune)          comparables.
                                                      All factors materially affecting
                                                      the comparability of the
                                                      assessee with the other entities
                                                      need to be scrutinized and
                                                      adjusted,      including     the
                                                      operative profit.
       12. SAP LABS India      Directed         the   These two entities were earning
           (P) Ltd. v. ACIT,   exclusion of M/s       supernormal profits. Extreme
           [2011] 44 SOT       Hinduja TMT and        cases should be avoided while
           156 (Bang.)         M/s Aftek Infosys      making a comparative study of
                               Ltd. as comparables.   analogous cases.
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                                 Page 25
        13. Exxon       Mobil    Rejected         the     As regards exclusion of entities
           Company India        assessee's               earning abnormal profits, a
           P. Ltd. v. Deputy    contention that two      general submission cannot be
           CIT [2012] 15        loss         making      accepted; the assessee should
           ITR (Trib) 353       concerns had to be       bring out the peculiar features
           (Mum)                included     among       why such exclusion is necessary
                                comparables.             in the circumstances of the case.
       14. Maersk Global        Entities          with   The inclusion of entities with
           Centres (India)      abnormally        high   supernormal profits would
           (P) Ltd. v. ACIT,    profit        margins    depend upon the facts and
           [2014]        43     cannot be rejected       circumstances of each case. It
           Taxmann      100     outright            as   should        trigger     further
           (Mumbai Special      comparables. In the      investigation      to   establish
           Bench).              given facts of the       whether it can be taken as a
                                case,              two   comparable or not - this would
                                comparables sought       depend upon whether the high
                                to     be    included    profits reflect a normal business
                                indicated     unusual    condition or whether they are a
    

features for the year, result of some abnormal which qualified for conditions
prevailing in the their exclusion. relevant year.

The profit margin earned by such entity in the immediately preceding year may
also be taken into account to determine this issue.

If the high profit margin does not reflect normal business condition, it
should be rejected.

An entity cannot be rejected solely on the basis of abnormally high profit
margin.

15\. Goldman Sachs Directed the Assessee and the comparables (India)
Securities exclusion of were functionally different and Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT,
comparables not in the same segment.

    
    
           ITA            No.   ordered by the TPO.
           7724/Mum/2011,
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                                   Page 26
             dated 23.01.2013
       16. Advance Power       Directed         the BCC Fuba India Ltd. was a
           Display Systems     exclusion of BCC persistently loss making unit
           Ltd. v. ACIT,       Fuba India Ltd. as a and therefore, it cannot be
           [2013]       35     comparable.
                                                    considered to be a good
           Taxmann     145
           (Mum)                                    comparable.
    
                               Comparables have
                               to be tested for each
                               year independently.     Further, in respect of another
                               The fact that an        company, the P&L A/c had an
                               entity has been         extraordinary item of income on
                               chosen       as     a   account of sale of business.
                               comparable for one
                                                       Therefore, this makes this
                               year does not ipso
                               facto mean that it      company as not a good
                               would be chosen the     comparable for the year under
                               subsequent year.        consideration.
    
       17. Syscom              A company cannot    If profit not supernormal, the
           Corporation Ltd.    be excluded as a    mere fact that it is high does not
           v. ACIT, [2013]     comparable solely   justify exclusion. Unless and
           35 Taxmann 600      because it is a high
                                                   until there are specific reasons
           (Mum)               profit making unit.
                                                   and factors as provided under
                                                   Rule 10B, an entity cannot be
    

A persistently loss excluded or eliminated from the making unit cannot list of
comparables.

be considered as a comparable.

Comparability of an uncontrolled transaction with an international transaction
has to be measured by using current year data and only when the ITA 417/2014
Page 27 current year data does not give a true picture due to abnormal
circumstances that multiple year data is used.

    
    
       18. Aztec Software v.   The          criteria There should be a proper
           ACIT, ITA No.       prescribed under the analysis of transactions - FAR
           584/Bang/2006       Act and Rules is the analysis.
           dt.   12.07.2007    primary basis for
           (Bang - Special     testing
           Bench)              comparability.
       19. CIT v. Agnity       Upheld the exclusion    Tribunal had excluded Infosys
           India               of           Infosys    as it was a giant company in the
           Technologies (P)    Technologies Ltd. as    area of software development
           Ltd. [2013] 36      a comparable.           and it assumed all risks leading
           Taxmann      289                            to higher profits whereas the
           (Delhi HC)                                  assessee was a captive unit of
                                                       the parent company and
                                                       assumed only a small risk.
                                                       HC upheld the reasons given by
                                                       the Tribunal for the exclusion.
       20. Cummins Turbo                               Companies with supernormal
           Technologies v.                             profits and companies which are
           DDIT, [2013] 35                             loss-making cannot straight
           Taxmann 350                                 away       be      rejected  as
                                                       comparables unless abnormal
                                                       loss is projected.
       21. Google India (P) Exclusion of two           The Tribunal has consistently
           Ltd. v. DCIT, companies making              held that super profit making
           [2013]        29 supernormal profits.       companies have to excluded
           Taxmann 412.                                from the list of comparables
                                                       before making transfer pricing
                                                       adjustment.
    
    
    
    
    ITA 417/2014                                                                Page 28
    

25\. Maersk Global Centres (India) (P) Ltd (supra) was a Special Bench (3
Member) decision of ITAT which had to address the precise question which
arises for consideration in this case, i.e whether in the facts of that case
―companies earning abnormally high profit margin should be included in the
list of comparable cases for the purpose of determining the arm's length price
of international transactions‖. Although the ITAT did not specifically answer
the question, in view of its findings that two comparables, i.e eClerx
Services Ltd and Mold Tech Technologies Ltd, on account of unusual or peculiar
features which were apparent from the materials on record, the Bench did
indicate the general approach appropriate in this regard:

> ―the comparability of an international transaction with an uncontrolled
> transaction for the purpose of determining the arm's length price of an
> international transaction by following the transactional net margin method
> is required to be judged with reference to the functions performed as per
> sub-rule (2)(b) of rule 10B read with sub-rule (1)(e) thereof and there is
> no bar in the transfer pricing regulations in India to exclude certain
> entities selected as potential comparables on a broad functionality test by
> applying the functional test at narrow or micro level to attain the
> relatively equal degree of comparability.

On the other hand, rule 10B(3) provides that the uncontrolled transaction
selected/judged as per rule 10B(2) shall be comparable to an international
transaction only if none of the differences, if any, between the transactions
being compared, or between enterprises entering into such transactions are
likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid or the profit
arising from such transaction in the open market or reasonably accurate
adjustment can be made to eliminate the effects of such difference. In our
opinion, sub-rule (3) of rule 10B thus clearly provides for further exclusion
of the comparables selected by applying the test/criteria given in sub-rule
(2) of rule 10B if there is any difference found between the enterprises
entering into the ITA 417/2014 Page 29 transactions which materially affects
the cost charged or the profit arising from such transaction in the open
market.

69\. Keeping in view the relevant portion of the OECD Transfer Pricing
Guidelines discussed above and having regard to the relevant transfer pricing
regulations as contained in rule 10B(3) of the Income-tax Rules, 1962, we are
of the view that further dissection or classification of information
technology enabled services can be done depending on the facts and
circumstances of each case so as to select the entities having a relatively
equal degree of comparability.‖ In Exxon Mobil Company India P. Ltd. (supra),
a Mumbai Bench decision, (cited at Sl. No.13 in the table above), the ITAT
held:

> "(xi) Now, coming to the alternative arguments of the assessee that abnormal
> profit making unit is also to be eliminated on the same analogy on which
> loss making units are excluded, we, in principle, do not dispute this
> proposition. The various case laws relied upon by the assessee lay down that
> a comparable cannot be eliminated just because it is a loss making unit.
> Similarly, a higher profit making unit cannot also be automatically
> eliminated just because the comparable company earned higher profits than
> the average. The reason for rejecting the two loss making units is not just
> because they were loss making units but for the reasons which are already
> stated in the preceding paragraphs. If similar reasons existed in the higher
> profit making unit, then, it is for the assessee to bring out those reasons
> and seek exclusion of the same. A general argument that you have to exclude
> units which have high profit range, in case you exclude units which have
> made loss is a general submission which cannot be accepted. In other words,
> as a general principle, both loss making unit and high profit making unit
> cannot be eliminated from the comparables unless there are specific reasons
> for eliminating the same which is other than the general reason that a
> comparable has incurred loss or has made abnormal profits.‖ ITA 417/2014
> Page 30 This court notices that American Express Services India Ltd v Deputy
> Commissioner Of Income-Tax, 2013 (57) SOT 22 (ITAT-Del) said, similarly,
> that:

> ―If the comparables are performing the same functions then merely on the
> ground of they being earning super profits, cannot be excluded. Material
> differences between their business modules, however, are required to be
> taken care off and duly adjusted. In the case of Sundaram Finance
> Distribution Ltd., we find that the main objection of assessee is that the
> said comparable was included because assessee had supplied the same and the
> second objection is that in the said comparable there was no staff. As far
> as first objection is concerned, we are in agreement with the assessee's
> counsel that merely because the said comparable was provided by assessee,
> the same could not be included without proper examination to account for the
> differences. The assessee is well within his right to demonstrate that a
> comparable supplied by it in the transfer pricing analysis was not correct
> and had to be excluded. This right of the assessee is not curtailed in any
> manner, whatsoever, in the rules.

> A similar reasoning was adopted in M/s. Premier Exploration Services
> Pvt.Ltd., vs. ITO, Ward 14 (3) [2014] 29 ITR (Trib) 427 (ITAT) [Del]
> ―Although assessee had taken this company as comparable on the basis of past
> years data but in our considered view, the Saket Projects Ltd. was not
> comparable to assessee because the event management was done by sponsorships
> which is evident from various documents placed in paper book. Further the
> segment allocation of expenses also appears to be not reliable. We agree
> with the view of revenue that no comparable can be rejected merely on the
> basis of high margins if the comparable is functionally comparable to the
> assessee and also that there is miner variation in functional similarity.
> However, in the case of Saket Projects Ltd. there is functional
> dissimilarity. The company is organizing events with various kinds of
> sponsorships. The facts also suggest that segmental allocation of expenses
> were not ITA 417/2014 Page 31 reliable. We also hold that when direct
> comparables are available then segmental results of companies engaged in
> other business should not be taken as comparable. On the basis of these
> facts, we hold that Saket Projects Ltd. was not comparable to the extent
> wherein the various variations could be ruled out or iron out by provisions
> of law and rules.‖

26\. The assessee‟s position is supported by reasoning in cases like the
ITAT‟s decision in Mentor Graphics (Noida) (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2007] 109 ITD
161 where contentions such as these were accepted:

> ".....The wide difference in the ratio of operating margins in the final
> selection of comparable ... is a clear pointer to the fact that the
> selection made was faulty...The OECD guideline on this point is as under
> ‗1.47 Where the application of one or more methods produces a range of
> figures, a substantial deviation among points in that range may indicate
> that the data used in establishing the some of the points may not be as
> reliable as the data used to establish the other points in the range or that
> the deviation may result from features of the comparable data that require
> adjustments.' Inferring from the above ruling, we requests your goodself to
> not consider companies displaying abnormal profits since they deviate from
> the normal trend displayed by the data set."

Many decisions of different benches of the ITAT indicate a rote repetition (in
the words of Felix Frankfurter J, quoted in the beginning of this judgment a
"lazy repetition") of this reasoning, without an independent analysis of the
provisions of the Act and the rules. (Ref. IQ Information Systems India P.
Ltd. [2013] 25 ITR (Trib) 185 (Hyderabad Bench) Symphony Marketing Solutions
India P. Ltd. [2013] 27 ITR (Trib) 753 (Bangalore Bench)).

ITA 417/2014 Page 32

27\. An indication of what ought to be the correct approach was given by a
Division Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax v Mentor Graphics
(P) Ltd [2013] 259 CTR 1 (Del), where it was held that:

> ―21. The sum and substance of the Tribunal's order is that the criteria
> adopted by the TPO for searching comparables was not correct. Secondly, the
> TPO had not specifically rejected any of the comparables of the
> respondent/assessee. The Tribunal was of the view that the comparables of
> the respondent/assessee ought to have been accepted and, had that been the
> case, there would have been no need for the TPO to search for comparables.
> Of course, in passing the order, the Tribunal made certain general
> observations that unless and until the comparables drawn by the taxpayer
> were rejected, a fresh search by the TPO could not be conducted. However,
> this has to be tempered with the relevant statutory provisions which are
> clearly set out in sub-s. (3) of s. 92C of the said Act which stipulates
> four situations whereunder the AO/TPO may proceed to determine the ALP in
> relation to an international transaction. If any one of those four
> conditions is satisfied, it would be open to the AO/TPO to proceed to
> determine the ALP. This clarification of the observation of the Tribunal was
> necessary and that is why we have done so.

22\. We also note that the Tribunal had gone further and reduced the list of
comparables to merely four as indicated in para 46 of the impugned order. We
do not think that it was the right approach to be adopted by the Tribunal. The
Tribunal should have stopped at the point where it decided on facts that the
comparables given by the respondent/assessee were to be accepted and those
searched by the TPO were to be rejected. The only option then left to the
Tribunal was to derive the arithmetical mean of the PLIs of the comparables
which were accepted by it. In this case such comparables happen to be those of
the respondent/assessee. The Tribunal, in selecting only one PLI out of a set
of PLIs had clearly erred in law. However, in the facts of the present case
that would not make any difference to the respondent/assessee's case in as
much as even if the ITA 417/2014 Page 33 arithmetical mean of the comparables
as accepted by the Tribunal is taken into account, the PLI would, whether the
seven companies are taken into consideration or all eight companies are taken
into consideration, be less than 6.99 per cent which is the PLI of the
respondent/assessee for the relevant year, that is, financial year ending 31st
March, 2002. We may also make it clear that the reference to the OECD
Guidelines by the Tribunal in the impugned order are in the context of the
reliance placed by the TPO on the very same guidelines, in particular, to para
3.27 thereof. In the present case, there are specific provisions of sub- rr.
(2) and (3) of r. 10B of the said rules as also of the first proviso to s.
92C(2) of the said Act which apply. Therefore, the question of applying OECD
Guidelines does not arise at all.‖ It is therefore, evident that the Special
Bench and this Court stressed that mere distortion cannot be the basis of
exclusion, given the mandate of Section 92C. The assessee had during the
hearing, heavily relied on OECD guidelines and another Division Bench ruling
in Agnity (supra). This court proposes to take up the latter decision first
for discussion. In Agnity (supra), the revenue had questioned, inter alia, the
ITAT decision to exclude the data relating to Infosys. One of the reasons was
that the said company was a "giant" corporation and was involved in
multifarious activities. After reproducing the comparative chart and noticing
the facts, the Court reasoned as follows:

> ―6. Learned counsel for the Revenue has submitted that the Tribunal after
> recording the aforesaid table has not affirmed or given any finding on the
> differences. This is partly correct as the Tribunal has stated that Infosys
> Technologies Ltd. should be excluded from the list of comparables for the
> reason latter was a giant company in the area of development of software and
> it assumed all risks leading to higher profits, whereas the respondent-
> assessee was a captive unit of the parent company and assumed only a limited
> risk. It has also stated that Infosys ITA 417/2014 Page 34 Technologies Ltd.
> cannot be compared with the respondent- assessee as seen from the financial
> data etc. to the two companies mentioned earlier in the order i.e. the
> chart. In the grounds of appeal the Revenue has not been able to controvert
> or deny the data and differences mentioned in the tabulated form. The chart
> has not been controverted.

> 7\. Learned counsel for the appellant Revenue during the course of hearing,
> drew our attention to the order passed by the TPO and it is pointed out that
> based upon the figures and data made available, the TPO had treated a third
> company as comparable when the wage and sale ratio was between 30% to 60%.
> By applying this filter, several companies were excluded. This is correct as
> it is recorded in para 3.1.2 of the order passed by the TPO. TPO, as noted
> above, however had taken three companies, namely, Satyam Computer Service
> Ltd., L&T Infotech Ltd. and Infosys Technologies as comparable to work out
> the mean.

> 8\. It is a common case that Satyam Computer Services Ltd. should not be
> taken into consideration. The Tribunal for valid and good reasons has
> pointed out that Infosys Technologies Ltd. cannot be taken as a comparable
> in the present case. This leaves L&T Infotech Ltd. which gives us the figure
> of 11.11 %, which is less than the figure of 17% margin as declared by the
> respondent-assessee. This is the finding recorded by the Tribunal. The
> Tribunal in the impugned order has also observed that the assessee had
> furnished details of workables in respect of 23 companies and the mean of
> the comparables worked out to 10%, as against the margin of 17% shown by the
> assessee. Details of these companies are mentioned in para 5 of the impugned
> order.

> 9\. In view of the aforesaid position, we do not think that any substantial
> question of law arises for consideration. The appeal is dismissed.‖

28\. Quite evidently, the Court accepted the assessee‟s contentions with
respect to dissimilarity of comparables; given the facts, equally, there was
ITA 417/2014 Page 35 sufficient material to favour that view, in the facts of
the case. The Court, unlike in Mentor Graphics (supra) did not undertake an
analysis of the provisions involved- it was not also necessary, given the
admitted state of facts.

29\. Considerable inspiration was drawn from OECD guidelines to say that
extraordinary facts in relation to a comparable should lead to its rejection
in the TP analysis. The relevant provisions of the 2010 OECD Transfer Pricing
Guidelines are extracted below:

> ―A.7.3 - Extreme Results: Comparability Considerations 3.63: Extreme results
> might consist of losses or unusually high profits. Extreme results can
> affect the financial indicators that are looked at in the chosen method
> (e.g. the gross margin when applying a resale price, or a net profit
> indicator when applying a transactional net margin method). They can also
> affect other items, e.g. exceptional items which are below the line but
> nonetheless may reflect exceptional circumstances. Where one or more of the
> potential comparables have extreme results, further examination would be
> needed to understand the reasons for such extreme results. The reason might
> be a defect in comparability, or exceptional conditions met by an otherwise
> comparable third party. An extreme result may be excluded on the basis that
> a previously overlooked significant comparability defect has been brought to
> light, not on the sole basis that the results arising from the proposed
> ―comparable‖ merely appear to be very different from the results observed in
> other proposed ―comparables‖.

> 3.64: An independent enterprise would not continue loss- generating
> activities unless it had reasonable expectations of future profits. See
> paragraphs 1.70 to 1.72. Simple or low risk functions in particular are not
> expected to generate losses for a long period of time. This does not mean
> however that loss-

making transactions can never be comparable. In general, all relevant
information should be used and there should not be any ITA 417/2014 Page 36
overriding rule on the inclusion or exclusion of loss-making comparables.
Indeed, it is the facts and circumstances surrounding the company in question
that should determine its status as a comparable, not its financial result.

3.65: Generally speaking, a loss-making uncontrolled transaction should
trigger further investigation in order to establish whether or not it can be a
comparable. Circumstances in which loss-making transactions/enterprises should
be excluded from the list of comparables include cases where losses do not
reflect normal business conditions, and where the losses incurred by third
parties reflect a level of risks that is not comparable to the one assumed by
the taxpayer in controlled transactions. Loss-making comparables that satisfy
the comparability analysis should not however be rejected on the sole basis
that they suffer losses.

3.66: A similar investigation should be undertaken for potential comparables
returning abnormally large profits relative to other potential comparables.‖
On the use of multiple year data, this is what the said guidelines provide:

> ―B.5 Multiple Year Data 3.75: In practice, examining multiple year data is
> often useful in a comparability analysis, but it is not a systematic
> requirement. Multiple year data should be used where they add value to the
> transfer pricing analysis. It would not be appropriate to set prescriptive
> guidance as to the number of years to be covered by multiple year analyses.

> 3.76: In order to obtain a complete understanding of the facts and
> circumstances surrounding the uncontrolled transaction, it generally might
> be useful to examine data from both the year under examination and prior
> years. The analysis of such information might disclose facts that may have
> influenced (or should have influenced) the determination of the transfer
> price.

For example, the use of the data from past years will show whether a
taxpayer's reported loss on a transaction is part of a history of losses on
similar transactions, the result of particular ITA 417/2014 Page 37 economic
conditions in a prior year that increased costs in the subsequent year, or a
reflection of the fact that a product is at the end of its life cycle. Such an
analysis may be particularly useful where a transaction profit method is
applied. See paragraph 1.72 on the usefulness of multiple year data in
examining loss situations. Multiple year data can also improve the
understanding of long term arrangements.

3.77: Multiple year data will also be useful in providing information about
the relevant business and product life cycles of the comparables. Differences
in business or product life cycles may have a material effect on transfer
pricing conditions that needs to be assessed in determining comparability. The
data from earlier years may show whether the independent enterprise engaged in
a comparable transaction was affected by comparable economic conditions, or
whether different conditions in an earlier year materially affected its price
or profit so that it should not be used as a comparable.

3.78: Multiple year data can also improve the process of selecting third party
comparables, e.g. by identifying results that may indicate a significant
variance from the underlying comparability characteristics of the controlled
transaction being reviewed, in some cases leading to the rejection of the
comparable, or to detect anomalies in third party information. 3.79: The use
of multiple year data does not necessarily imply the use of multiple year
averages. Multiple year data and averages can however be used in some
circumstances to improve reliability of the range. See paragraphs 3.57-3.62
for a discussion of statistical tools.‖

30\. The reasoning adopted in various judgments noticed above, shows that
functional analysis seeks to identify and compare the economically significant
activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used and risks assumed by
the parties to the transaction. Quantitative and qualitative filters/criteria
have been used in different cases to include or exclude ITA 417/2014 Page 38
comparables. The intuitive logic for excluding big companies from the list of
comparables while undertaking the FAR analysis of a smaller company is
attractive, given that such big companies provide services to diverse
clientele, perform multifarious functions, often assume risks and employ
intangible assets which are specially designed, unlike in the case of smaller
companies. The bigger companies have an established reputation in the segment,
are well known and employ economies of scale to a telling end. On the other
hand, these obvious - and apparent features should not blind the TPO from the
obligation to carry out the transfer pricing exercise within the strict
mandate of Section 92 C and Rules 10-A to 10-E.

31\. Arm's length price determination, in respect of an international
transaction has necessarily to confirm to the mandate of Rule 10B. In this
case, the method followed for determining the arm's length price of the
international transaction adopted by the assessee and the revenue is the TNMM.
The comparability of an international transaction with an uncontrolled
transaction has, in such cases, to be seen with reference to the functions
performed, taking into account the assets employed or to be employed and the
risks assumed by the respective parties to the transaction as per rule
10B(2)(b). The specific characteristics of the property transferred or
services provided (contemplated by Rule 10B(2)(a)) in either transactions may
be secondary, for judging comparability of an international transaction in the
TNMM, because the price charged or paid for property transferred or services
provided and the direct and indirect cost of production incurred by the
enterprise in respect of property transferred or services provided go into
reckoning comparability analysis in the transaction methods, i.e the
comparable uncontrolled price, resale price and cost plus whereas the profit
ITA 417/2014 Page 39 based method such as transactional net margin method
takes into account, the net margin realised. In TNMM, comparability of an
international transaction with an uncontrolled transaction is to be seen with
reference to functions performed as provided in sub-rule (2)(b) of rule 10B
read with sub-rule (1)(e) of that rule after taking into account assets
employed or to be employed and the risks assumed by the respective parties to
the transaction. As noticed earlier, Rule 10B(3) mandates that a given or
select uncontrolled transaction selected in terms of Rule 10B(2) "shall be
comparable to an international transaction" if none of the differences, if
any, between the compared transactions, or between enterprises entering into
such transactions ―are likely to materially affect the price or cost charged
or paid or the profit arising from such transaction in the open market or
reasonably accurate adjustment can be made to eliminate the effects of such
difference.‖

32\. Now, the sequitur of Rule 10B (2) and (3) is that if the comparable
entity or entity‟s transactions broadly conform to the assessee‟s functioning,
it has to enter into the matrix and be appropriately considered. The crucial
expression giving insight into what was intended by the provision can be seen
by the use of the expression: ―none of the differences, if any, between the
transactions being compared, or between the enterprises entering into such
transactions are likely to materially affect the price or cost charged or paid
in, .. such transactions in the open market‖. The other exercise which the TPO
has to necessarily perform is that if there are some differences, an attempt
to "adjust" them to "eliminate the material effects" should be made:

―(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
effects of such differences.‖ ITA 417/2014 Page 40

33\. Such being the case, it is clear that exclusion of some companies whose
functions are broadly similar and whose profile - in respect of the activity
in question can be viewed independently from other activities- cannot be
subject to a per se standard of loss making company or an "abnormal" profit
making concern or huge or "mega" turnover company. As explained earlier, Rule
10B (2) guides the six methods outlined in clauses

(a) to (f) of Rule 10B(1), while judging comparability. Rule 10B (3) on the
other hand, indicates the approach to be adopted where differences and
dissimilarities are apparent. Therefore, the mere circumstance of a company

\- otherwise conforming to the stipulations in Rule 10B (2) in all details,
presenting a peculiar feature - such as a huge profit or a huge turnover, ipso
facto does not lead to its exclusion. The TPO, first, has to be satisfied that
such differences do not ―materially affect the price...or cost‖; secondly, an
attempt to make reasonable adjustment to eliminate the material effect of such
differences has to be made.

34\. The Court is also aware of the factors mentioned in Rule 10B (2), i.e
characteristics of the service provided, functions performed taking into
account assets employed or to be employed and the risks assumed, by the
respective parties to the transactions; contractual terms of the transactions
indicating how the responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided
between the respective parties to the transactions; conditions prevailing in
the markets in which the respective parties to the transactions operate,
including the geographical location and size of the markets, the laws and the
Government orders in force; costs of labour and capital in the markets,
overall economic development and level of competition and whether the markets
are wholesale or retail. These elements comprehend the similarities ITA
417/2014 Page 41 and dissimilarities; clause (f) of Rule 10C(2) specifically
provides that ―the extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be
made to account for differences, if any, between the international transaction
or the specified domestic transaction and the comparable uncontrolled
transaction or between the enterprises entering into such transactions and the
nature, extent and reliability of assumptions required to be made in
application of a method‖ have to be taken into consideration by the TPO.

35\. As regards the relevance of multiple year data for transfer pricing
determination, this Court is of the opinion that the general rule as
prescribed in Rule 10B(4) mandates the tax authorities to take into account
only the relevant assessment year‟s data. The proviso to Rule 10B(4) permits
data relating to two years prior to the relevant assessment year to be taken
into account in the event that they have an influence on the determination of
price. However, in such instances, the onus lies upon the assessee to
establish the relevance of such data. The language of Rule 10B(4) does not
leave any scope for ambiguity on this issue. This Court notices that this very
ground- i.e applicability of previous years‟ data for reaching out
comparables, was sought to be urged in Marubeni India (P) Ltd v DIT 354 ITR
638 but deliberately left moot, because the assessee had given it up before
the Tribunal. The TPO in his order dated 03.10.2011 has comprehensively
examined the authorities on this issue and rightly held that ordinarily, the
revenue has to consider only the relevant assessment year‟s data under Rule
10B(4) and that data from earlier period may also be considered if "it reveals
certain facts which have an influence on the determination of transfer prices
in relation to the transaction being considered". The assessee has placed
significant reliance on the OECD ITA 417/2014 Page 42 guidelines to contend
the admissibility of previous year‟s data for transfer pricing determination.
However, for reasons given in the paragraphs below, this Court is of the
opinion that the OECD guidelines have no bearing on this issue.

36\. This Court holds that in the facts of the present case, the assessee was
incorrect, both in its reliance placed upon previous years‟ data as well as
the manner of such reliance. First, the assessee‟s justification for relying
on such data is the volatility in the comparables‟ profit margins and the
consequent inability to transact at a consistent ALP. However, this is not
warranted herein. Whilst there may be a wide fluctuation in the profit margins
of comparables from year-to-year, this by itself does not justify the need to
take into account previous years‟ profit margins. The transfer pricing
mechanism provided in the Act and the Rules prescribes that while determining
the ALP, the arithmetic mean of all comparables is to be adopted. This is to
offset the consequence of any extreme margins that comparables may have and
arrive at a balanced price. Similarly, the wide fluctuations in profit margins
of the same entity on a year-to-year basis would be offset by taking the
arithmetic mean of all comparables for the assessment year in question. In any
case, in the event that the volatility is on account of a materially different
aspect incapable of being accounted for, the analysis under would Rule 10B(3)
would exclude such an entity from being considered as a comparable. Secondly,
as regards the manner of using previous years‟ data, the assessee has taken
the arithmetic mean of the comparables‟ profit margins for the assessment year
in question and two previous years. This Court disagrees. The proviso to Rule
10B(4), read with the sub-rule, itself indicates that the purpose for which
previous years‟ data ITA 417/2014 Page 43 may be considered is - analysing the
comparability of an uncontrolled transaction with an international
transaction. It does not prescribe that once an uncontrolled transaction has
been held to be a „comparable‟, in order to obviate an apparent volatility in
the data, the arithmetic mean of three years (the assessment year in question
and two previous years‟) may be taken. That would amount to assigning equal
weight to the data for each of the three years, which is against the mandate
of Rule 10B(4). The use of the word „shall‟ in Rule 10B(4) and, noticeably,
„may‟ in the proviso, implies that the relevant assessment year‟s data is of
primary consideration, as opposed to previous years‟ data.

37\. The contention that OECD guidelines have to be taken into consideration
requires a closer scrutiny. The Organisation for Economic Co- operation and
Development (OECD) is an international economic organisation of 34 countries
founded in 1961 to stimulate economic progress and world trade. India is not a
member of this grouping; it has an observer status. She has, however, of late
been actively co-operating with the organization. The Guidelines of OECD
therefore, have only persuasive status; they do not have any legal sanction-
unlike, for instance Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements which courts are
duty bound to interpret and implement, in terms of municipal law, given the
compulsion of provisions of the Income Tax Act. Secondly - and more
importantly- the provisions of the Constitution compel a national legislation,
to embody the terms of a treaty, for it to be enforceable in courts in India.
This is because of Article 253 of the Constitution and the dualist tradition
(of International law) followed by India, whereby treaties by themselves are
legally unenforceable in courts, but are to be assimilated through municipal
(or ITA 417/2014 Page 44 national) legislation. Our Supreme Court has, in the
area of human rights - particularly in personal liberty, been emphasizing that
to the extent the provision of any treaty is in consonance with provision of
the Constitution (such as Article 21) it would be read along with such
provision or right (Jolly George Varghese and Anr. v. The Bank of Cochin, AIR
1980 SC 470, Apparel Export Promotion Council v. A.K. Chopra, AIR 1999 SC 625;
Kubic Dariusz v Union of India AIR 1990 SC 605). Thus, the Courts are
primarily bound by the law on the subject in India; if the law is clear and
unambiguous, there is no question of resorting to extrinsic sources. The only
rider is that if the terms of such conventions or treaties are similar to the
law applicable in India, courts may consider precedents in that regard;
however those are only of persuasive value.

38\. The aforesaid conclusion is fortified by the Division Bench decision of
this Court in Mentor Graphics (supra), where the Court noted:

> ―We may also make it clear that the reference to the OECD guidelines by the
> Tribunal in the impugned order are in the context of the reliance placed by
> the Transfer Pricing Officer on the very same guidelines, in particular, to
> paragraph 3.27 thereof. In the present case, there are specific provisions
> of sub-

rules (2) and (3) of Rule 10B of the said Rules as also of the first proviso
to section 92C(2) of the said Act which apply. Therefore, the question of
applying OECD guidelines does not arise at all.‖ This Court also notes that a
recent decision in Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications India Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT
(dated 16.03.2015) relied extensively on the OECD Guidelines. However, the
said ruling itself recognized that the provisions of the Act and the Rules
"are supreme". Therefore, this Court holds that where they (i.e., the Act and
the Rules) adequately cover a field, reliance on the OECD Guidelines is not
warranted. At this stage, we deem it ITA 417/2014 Page 45 fit to quote the
following observations of the Supreme Court in Entertainment Network (India)
Ltd. v. Super Cassette Industries Ltd., (2008) 13 SCC 30:

> ―However, applicability of the International Conventions and Covenants, as
> also the resolutions, etc. for the purpose of interpreting domestic statute
> will depend upon the acceptability of the Conventions in question. If the
> country is a signatory thereto subject of course to the provisions of the
> domestic law, the International Covenants can be utilized. Where
> International Conventions are framed upon undertaking a great deal of
> exercise upon giving an opportunity of hearing to both the parties and
> filtered at several levels as also upon taking into consideration the
> different societal conditions in different countries by laying down the
> minimum norm, as for example, the ILO Conventions, the court would freely
> avail the benefits thereof. Those Conventions to which India may not be a
> signatory but have been followed by way of enactment of new Parliamentary
> statute or amendment to the existing enactment, recourse to International
> Convention is permissible.‖ (emphasis supplied) The above excerpt indicates
> that courts must be cautious of relying upon international conventions to
> which India is not a signatory and with respect to which there is no
> legislative mandate whatsoever.

In any event, the OECD Guidelines relevant herein are in consonance with the
Rules. Para 3.63 of the Guidelines states that an extreme comparable cannot be
excluded "on the sole basis that the results arising from the proposed
‗comparable' merely appear to be very different from the results observed in
other proposed ‗comparables'‖ and that "further examination would be needed to
understand the reasons for such extreme results‖.

ITA 417/2014 Page 46 Similarly, para 3.65 states that "loss-making comparables
that satisfy the comparability analysis should not however be rejected on the
sole basis that they suffer losses‖. Further, para 3.64 states that "it is the
facts and circumstances surrounding the company in question that should
determine its status as a comparable, not its financial result‖. The same
approach is prescribed in para 3.66 for entities making supernormal profits.
Therefore, both the OECD Guidelines as well as Rule 10B (2) and 10B (3) do
not, in any manner, prescribe automatic exclusion of entities with extreme
financial results.

Similarly, insofar as the use of multiple year data is concerned, Para 3.75 of
the OECD Guidelines states that "[m]ultiple year data should be used where
they add value to the transfer pricing analysis.‖ This is akin to the proviso
to Rule 10B(4) which provides for "data relating to a period not being more
than two years prior to such financial year [to] be considered if such data
reveals facts which could have an influence on the determination of transfer
prices in relation to the transactions being compared.‖ Crucially, as noted by
the TPO, para 3.79 of the Guidelines states that the "use of multiple year
data does not necessarily imply the use of multiple year averages". Thus, even
if multiple year data is taken into consideration while determining the arm‟s
length price, it may only be for the purposes of factoring in material changes
in, inter alia, economic conditions, third party variables, etc.

39\. This Court proceeds on the basis that there is sufficient guidance and
clarity in Rule 10B on the principles applicable for determination of ALP.
These include the various factors to be taken into consideration, approach to
be adopted (functions performed, taking into account risks borne and assets
employed, size of the market, the nature of competition, terms of labour, ITA
417/2014 Page 47 employment and cost of capital, geographical location etc).
The extent of accurate adjustments possible, too, is a factor to be
considered. Rule 10B (3) then underlines what the ALP determining exercise
entails, if there are dissimilarities which materially affect the price
charged etc: the first attempt has to be to eliminate the components which so
materially affect the price or cost. In other words, given the data available,
if the distorting factor can be severed and the other data used, that course
has to be necessarily adopted.

40\. In the present case, this Court holds that once Brescon, Keynote and
Khandwala Securities are held to be functionally similar to the assessee, they
would be included as comparables, notwithstanding their high profit margins,
provided that the material difference on account of such high profit margins
can be eliminated under the Rule 10B(3) analysis.

41\. This Court, on a perusal of the orders of the lower authorities and the
assessee‟s submissions before them which have been placed on record in this
appeal, finds that the assessee‟s contentions with respect to the exclusion of
Brescon and Khandwala Securities were based only on their exceptionally high
profit margins for the assessment year in question and not on the grounds of
functional dissimilarities. Indeed, the assessee did not contend the latter
before the lower authorities. The assessee has sought to highlight differences
in the risk profiles of the assessee and Brescon in the present appeal.
However, this Court holds that such a contention cannot be raised for the
first time at this stage. Therefore, Brescon and Khandwala Securities are held
to be functionally similar, and the matter is remitted to the DRP for the
purposes of examination under Rule 10B(3) of the Rules. In the event that the
material differences arising out of the extremely high ITA 417/2014 Page 48
profits cannot be eliminated as per Rule 10B(3), these two entities will have
to be discarded as comparables.

42\. As far as Keynote is concerned, this Court notices that the assessee had
challenged its inclusion as a comparable on two grounds: a) differences in the
activities of Keynote and the assessee; and b) exceptionally high profit
margins. The TPO rejected the first ground relying on the fact that the
assessee had used it as a comparable for previous years and in the subject
assessment year as well, it qualified as a comparable based on the assessee‟s
search process. Further, the TPO held that Keynote was engaged in financial
consultancy and would therefore be considered as a comparable. The ITAT, for
reasons unknown, did not examine this issue. This Court notes that the
assessee is engaged in the business of rendering financial research and
advisory services. It is responsible for investigation and advice to some of
its group companies on structuring potential investments and exit
opportunities; advising the group companies of investment and disposition
opportunities; collection and dissemination of financial information of
prospective entities; and other related services. On the other hand, Keynote,
as per its Directors‟ Report for FY 2007-08, is involved in "Lead Managing
IPOs, Rights Offers, Buybacks and Takeovers. [It] also expanded its reach in
Corporate Finance & M&A Advisory." The services provided by Keynote also
include managing public issue of securities, underwriting, project appraisal,
equity research, capital restructuring, loan and lease syndication, placement
services, portfolio management, debenture trustee, managing/advising on
international offerings of debt/equity, private placement of securities, etc.
Evidently, the assessee does not provide any of these services enumerated
above. Given such functional differences and the mandate of Rule ITA 417/2014
Page 49 10B(2)(b), there could be merit in the argument that Keynote cannot be
considered a comparable for determining the ALP. The fact that the assessee
had included it in the previous assessment years does not have any bearing on
its inclusion for the subject assessment year. In this regard, this Court
relies on the Supreme Court‟s decision in Commissioner of Income Tax v. C.
Parakh & Co (India) Ltd, 29 ITR 661, where the Court noted:

> ―Whether the respondent is entitled to a particular deduction or not will
> depend on the provision of law relating thereto, and not on the view which
> it might take of its rights, and consequently, if the whole of the
> commission is under the law liable to be deducted against the Indian
> profits, the respondent cannot be estopped from claiming the benefit of such
> deduction, by reason of the fact that it erroneously allocated a part of it
> towards the profits earned in Karachi. What has therefore to be determined
> is whether, notwithstanding the apportionment made by the respondent in the
> profit and loss statements, the deduction is admissible under the law.‖
> Further, a Division Bench of this Court in CIT v. Bharat General
> Reinsurance, 81 ITR 303 has also held that there is no estoppel against law
> under the Act. The Court therein held as follows:

> ―It is true that the assessee itself had included that dividend income in
> its return for the year in question but there is no estoppel in the Income
> tax Act and the assessee having itself challenged the validity of taxing the
> dividend during the year of assessment in question, it must be taken that it
> had resiled from the position which it had wrongly taken while filing the
> return.

> Quite apart from it, it is incumbent on the income-tax department to find
> out whether a particular income was assessable in the particular year or
> not. Merely because the assessee wrongly included the income in its return
> for a particular year, it cannot confer jurisdiction on the department to
> tax that income in that year even though legally such income did not pertain
> to that ITA 417/2014 Page 50 year.‖ For the sake of completion, this Court
> would also deal with the assessee‟s reliance on the DRP‟s order dated
> 04.03.2013 (for AY 2006-07) for the exclusion of Keynote as a comparable.
> The DRP directed such exclusion on two grounds: a) the fact that Keynote was
> making exceptionally high profits;

and b) only single year data could be considered for determining ALP in the
present case and the volatility in profit margins of Keynote would distort the
ALP. Thus, the DRP did not examine the functional comparability of Keynote
with the assessee.

In light of the discussion above, this Court remits the matter for
consideration to the DRP to properly apply the test indicated in this judgment
and analyse the functional similarity of Keynote with the assessee. In the
event that the DRP finds them to be functionally comparable, it would proceed
to carry out the Rule 10B(3) analysis as in the case of Khandwala Securities
and Brescon.

43\. The final question that arises for this Court‟s determination in the
present appeal is the assessee‟s claim for deduction under Section 36(1)(ii)
of the Act in respect of the bonus paid by it to its two shareholders - Ashish
Dhawan and Kunal Shroff. The lower authorities denied such claim, holding that
the bonus was paid to the shareholders in lieu of dividend with the objective
of avoiding tax. Such inference was drawn from two facts: a) the bonus paid
was in proportion of their shareholding in the assessee company, i.e. 2:1; and
b) no dividend had been declared by the assessee. However, a perusal of an
excerpt from the DRP‟s order dated 21.09.2012 quoted by the AO in his order
dated 19.10.2012 contradicts both these facts: a) bonus was not paid in the
ratio of 2:1 and b) the assessee had declared interim dividend ITA 417/2014
Page 51 of ` 5,47,47,000/-. Further, the bonuses paid to the two shareholder-
directors in the preceding two financial years were in the ratio of
60-65%:40-35%, even though their shareholding was 1:1. The balance sheet of
the assessee placed on record also indicates that the two shareholders also
hold directorial positions in the assessee. Therefore, the assessee‟s
contention that the bonus was paid to the shareholders in their managerial
capacity, like in the case of other managers, cannot be questioned merely on
the basis of a speculation by the revenue that such payment was to avoid tax.
In such circumstances, the deduction under Section 36(1)(ii) in respect of
payment of bonus to the two shareholder-directors is allowed. The assessee has
relied upon a number of judicial pronouncements to support its contention.
However, we do not consider it necessary to discuss those decisions for ruling
in its favour. Therefore, this question is answered in favour of the assessee.

44\. In light of the above findings, this Court concludes as follows:

> a. The mere fact that an entity makes high/extremely high profits/losses
> does not, ipso facto, lead to its exclusion from the list of comparables for
> the purposes of determination of ALP. In such circumstances, an enquiry
> under Rule 10B(3) ought to be carried out, to determine as to whether the
> material differences between the assessee and the said entity can be
> eliminated. Unless such differences cannot be eliminated, the entity should
> be included as a comparable.

b. While determining the comparability of transactions, multiple year data can
only be included in the manner provided in Rule ITA 417/2014 Page 52 10B(4).
As a general rule, it is not open to the assessee to rely upon previous year‟s
data.

c. As regards Khandwala Securities and Brescon, the matter is remitted to the
DRP to carry out the analysis under Rule 10B(3) and determine whether the
material differences arising out of their exceptionally high profits can be
eliminated. If not, the said entities cannot be included as comparables. For
Keynote, firstly, enquiry is to be carried out by the DRP, preceding the
analysis under Rule 10B(3), as to its functional similarity with the assessee;
thereafter, the exercise of determining if there are material differences on
account of exceptionally high profits which are capable of elimination has to
be carried out. d. The deduction claimed by the assessee under Section
36(1)(ii) of the Act, in respect of the bonuses paid to its shareholder-
employees is allowed.

45\. The appeal is accordingly partly allowed, in the above terms. No costs.

S. RAVINDRA BHAT (JUDGE) R.K. GAUBA (JUDGE) APRIL 27, 2015 ITA 417/2014 Page
53

