

Bombay High Court

Marico Limited A Company ... vs Raj Oil Mills Limited A Company ... on 20
February, 2008

Equivalent citations: AIR 2008 Bom 111, 2008 (110) Bom L R 638

Author: A V Mohta

Bench: S Radhakrishnan, A V Mohta

JUDGMENT Anoop V. Mohta, J.

Page 0642

1\. The Appellants/ Original Plaintiffs are the registered proprietor of the
designed article, for reference called "Parachute Cap", since 1999. The
Respondents Application for registration of their cap i.e. for reference
called "Cocoraj Cap" was rejected some time in the year 2004.

2\. In the month of September, 2006, the cause of action arose, when the
Plaintiffs learnt about the use by the Respondents-Defendants of the impugned
caps for which they have registered and acquired copyright of the said design.

3\. On 8th September, 2006, the Appellants/ Original Plaintiffs vide their
Advocates letter called upon the Respondents/ Original Defendants to desist
from using the impugned caps of which they are the proprietor of registered
design bearing No. 181063.

4\. On 19th September, 2006, the Defendants vide their Advocates letter denied
the allegation of the Plaintiffs and claimed to be using the impugned caps
since 2002.

5\. On 3rd October, 2006, the Plaintiffs vide their Advocates letter, once
again called upon the Defendants to desist from using the impugned caps for
which they are the proprietor of registered design.

6\. On 4th October, 2006, the Plaintiffs thereafter filed the suit in this
Court in order to restrain the Defendants from further infringing their
registered cap design.

7\. On 27th February, 2007, the Notice of Motion filed by the Plaintiffs was
dismissed. Therefore, being aggrieved by the order of the learned single Judge
dated 27th February, 2007, the Appellants prefer this Appeal before this
Court.

8\. The learned Counsel for the Appellants relied on the Judgment in Ford
Motor Co. Ltd.s Design Applications (1995) R.P.C. (No. 5) House of Lords, Page
167.

9\. The learned Senior counsel for the Respondents relied on the following
Judgments.

a) Ravinder Kumar Sharma v. State of Assam and Ors. .

Page 0643

b) Sifam Electrical Instrument Co. Ltd. v. Sangamo Weston Ltd., 1973 R.P.C.
(No.29) Chancery Division, Page 899.

c) Wander Ltd. and Anr. v. Antox India P. Ltd. 1990 (Supp) Supreme Court Cases
727.

d) Kemp & Company and Anr. v. Prima Plastics Ltd., .

e) Polar Industries Ltd. v. Usha International Ltd. and Ors.

10\. The relevant provisions of the Designs Act-2000, (for short, "The Act")
are as under:

2\. Definitions:....

a) "article" means any article of manufacture and any substance, artificial,
or partly artificial and partly natural; and includes any part of an article
capable of being made and sold separately;

b) ...

c) ...

d) "design" means only the features of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament
or composition of lines or colours applied to any article whether in two
dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms, by any industrial process
or means, whether manual, mechanical or chemical, separate or combined, which
in the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye; but does
not include any mode or principle of construction or anything which is in
substance a mere mechanical device, and does not include any trade mark as
defined in Clause (v) of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958) or property mark as defined in
Section 479 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or any artistic work as
defined in Clause (c) of Section 2 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957)
Section 19. - Cancellation of registration:

(1) Any person interested may present a petition for the cancellation of the
registration of a design at any time after the registration of the design, to
the Controller on any of the following grounds, namely:

a) that the design has been previously registered in India; or

b) that it has been published in India or in any other country prior to the
date of registration;

c) that the design original design; or is not a new or or

d) that the design is not registerable under this Act; or

e) that it is not a design as defined under Clause (d) of Section 2.

Section 22. - Piracy of registered design:

1) ...

2) ...

Page 0644

3) In any suit or any other proceeding for relief under Sub-section (2), every
ground on which the registration of a design may be cancelled under Section 19
shall be available as a ground of defence.

4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the second proviso to Sub-section
(2), every ground on which the registration of a design may be cancelled under
Section 19 has been availed of as a ground of defence and Sub-section (3) in
any suit or other proceeding for relief under Sub-section (2) the suit or such
other proceeding shall be transferred by the court, in which the suit or such
other proceeding is pending, to the High Court for decision.

13\. It is relevant to note the introduction, statement of objects and reasons
of the Act.

INTRODUCTION:

In 1911 the Designs Act was passed by the then British Government in India,
Since then extensive amendments have been made in the Designs Act. In the
meanwhile India has made tremendous progress in the field of science and
technology. There has been considerable increase in the registration of
designs. To provide more effective protection to registered designs and to
promote design activity in order to promote design element in an article of
production it has become necessary to make the legal system of providing
protection to industrial designs more efficient....

STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS:

...The proposed Designs Bill is essentially aimed to balance these interests.
It is also intended to ensure that the law does not unnecessarily extend
protection beyond what is necessary to create the required incentive for
design activity while removing impediments to the free use of available
designs. To achieve these purposes, the Bill incorporates inter alia, the
following, namely:

a) it enlarges the scope of definition of "article" and "design" and
introduces definition of "original"

14\. The notes on clauses as published on 13th December, 1999 in reference to
a Bill to consolidate and amend the law relating to protection of designs, as
relevant, is reproduced below:

Clause 2.- This clause contains definitions of various expressions used in the
Bill. While most of the definitions in the existing Act have been retained,
the definition of "original" has been incorporated vide Clause (o). According
to this definition, "original", in relation to a design, means originating
from the author of such design and includes the cases which though old in
themselves yet are new in their application. The definition of "original" has
been incorporated in order to specify the registerable designs. The
definitions of "article" and "design" have been amplified to align them with
similar definitions internationally accepted for providing wider protection to
the intellectual property. The definition of "article" has been amplified for
inclusion of parts of articles sold separately within its scope. the
definition of "design" has been amplified Page 0645 to incorporate therein the
composition of lines and colours so as to avoid overlapping with the Copyright
Act, 1957 regarding definition of "design" in respect of artistic work.

15\. There is no dispute that the date of certificate of registration is dated
29/06/2000, therefore, the provisions of the Act are applicable. Both the
parties have argued and made respective submissions based upon the Act.

16\. The learned Single Judge by the impugned order in pending suit, has
dismissed the Notice of Motion of the Appellants/ Plaintiffs mainly by holding
that the Appellants cap is not "an article" as defined in Section 2 (a) of the
Act by mainly relying on English Courts Judgment reported in (1995) R.P.C.
167, (House of Lords) (Ford Motor Company Limiteds Design Applications) and
observed as under:

8\. Mr. Kadam, the learned Advocate General appearing for the defendant,
relied on a decision of the House of Lords in Ford Motor Co. Ltd.s Design
Applications, reported in (1995) R.P.C.167. A similar provision in the English
statute reads as follows:

If that part is to be made and sold separately The House of Lords observed as
follows:

My Lords, for these reasons I have been compelled to give up the attempt to
read the words of the definition literally, and will instead look behind them
for the intention of the legislature. In my opinion the purpose was to
distinguish between on the one hand, an item designed for incorporation,
whether as a spare part or as an original component, in a particular article
or range of articles made by the manufacturer of the component, and on the
other an item designed for general use, albeit perhaps aimed principally at
use with manufacturers own artifacts. Whilst it is often unwise to restate the
effect of a statute in different words, since this may lead to the new formula
being subjected to the kind of textual analysis which ought to be reserved to
the statute itself, an answer will, I believe be supplied in many cases by
applying the criterion given by McCowan L.J., namely: that to qualify under
Section 44(1) a spare part has to have an independent life as an article of
commerce and not be merely an adjunct of some larger article of which it forms
part.

I am in respectful agreement with the said judgment and also of view that the
Indian statute should not be read literally. Merely because a part of the
article can be made separately and sold separately, it should not be taken as
covered by that phrase unless the part has an identity in the market by
itself. Indeed, a part must have an independent life as an article of commerce
and not be merely an adjunct of some larger article of which it forms part.
The cap involved in the present case cannot be said to have an independent
life of an article of commerce.

17\. The definition of "article" under the Act as reproduced above read with
the definition of "design" are different from the provision of the English
statute as reproduced above and importantly, the following words "includes
Page 0646 any part of an article capable of being made and sold separately",
whereas, in the English statute the words are "if that part is to be made and
sold separately". Therefore, the words "capable of being made and sold
separately" has to be read and considered in the context of the Act. The
English Law is silent with regard to the above words of the Act. The repealed
Act 1911 defines "article" means any article of manufacture and any substance
artificial or natural or partly artificial or partly natural. The above words
"capable of being made and sold separately" were not there earlier. Therefore,
as noted in the objects and reasons and as intended to enlarge the definition
of "article" and "design" above words have been inserted. These words are
clear and unambiguous.

18\. The observations of House of Lords as reproduced above and as relied,
therefore, cannot be read in isolation without considering the existing
enlarged definition of an "article" under the Act. The similar provisions of
English statute as relied, even if read, in no way similar and or identical
with the newly inserted words under the Act. The English statute and or the
decision as referred above, in view of the amended definition cannot be
extended in such a fashion to interpret the Act, by holding that "a part must
have an independent life as an article of commerce and not by merely an
adjunct of some larger article of which it is formed part. The cap involved in
the present case not independent life of an article of commerce"

19\. The Apex Court in an innumerable cases has held that when the language of
the Act or statute is plain, simple and clear it needs to be respected. There
is no vagueness in the definition of "article". Apart from the intention of
the legislature, it is unambiguous and clear. The Act, therefore, needs to be
interpreted in this background and not otherwise. The isolated section cannot
be read of English statute to decide the express and clear provisions of the
Indian Law like in question.

20\. As expressed by the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v. B.K.Mondal &
Sons, (five Judges), , the assistance of English decisions dealing with the
Indian Statutory Provisions is limited, as observed thus:

In such a case, where we are dealing with the problem of construing a specific
statutory provision it would be unreasonable to invoke the assistance of
English decisions dealing with the statutory provisions contained in English
law. As Lord Sinha has observed in delivering the judgment of the Privy
Council in Ramanandi Kuer v. Kalawati Kuer, 55 Ind APP 18 : ILR 7 Pat 221:
(AIR 1928 PC 2) "it has often been pointed out by this Board that where there
is a positive enactment of the Indian Legislature the proper course is to
examine the language of that statute and to ascertain its proper meaning
uninfluenced by any consideration derived from the previous state of the law
or of the English law upon which it may be founded". If the words used in the
Indian statute are obscure or ambiguous perhaps it may be permissible in
interpreting them to examine the background of the law or to derive assistance
from English decisions bearing on the point; but where the Page 0647 words are
clear and unambiguous it would be unreasonable to interpret them in the light
of the alleged background of the statute and to attempt to see that their
interpretation conforms to the said background.

21\. Even otherwise at the most the English decisions have persuasive value
but cannot be relied to interpret, specially when the provisions of the Act as
amended is different and clear.

22\. The Supreme Court has further observed in Forasol v. Oil and Natural Gas
Commission, that:

Further, the English decisions referred to by us are of courts of a country
from which we have derived our jurisprudence and large part of our laws and in
which the judgments were delivered by Judges held in high repute. Undoubtedly,
none of these decisions are binding upon this Court but they are authorities
of high persuasive value to which we may legitimately turn for assistance.
Whether the rule laid down in any of these cases can be applied by our courts
must, however, be judged in the context of our own laws and legal procedure
and the practical realities of litigation in our country.

23\. As noted in the present case, in view of the changed definition of
article under the Act itself the said Judgment, Ford Motors Company Limiteds
Design Applications (Supra), cannot be extended and or made applicable to
decide the case in hand.

24\. Strong reliance was placed on following paras of the another English
Judgment reported in (1973) R.P.C. 899, Sifam Electrical Instrument Company
Limited v. Sangamo Weston Limited, by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
the Respondents.

I come then to the final question: Was the design of the meter front in sketch
No. 10 registerable under the Designs Act, 1949? This depends on the words of
Sections 1 and 44 of that Act. Section 1(1) reads:

A design may be registered under this Act in respect of any article or set of
articles specified in the application". Section 44 defines article as
including "any part of an article if that part is made and sold separately The
meter front here is not now and never has been sold separately nor was it ever
intended that it should be. The words of the section are, however, difficult
because they cannot be read strictly literally. If an article or part of an
article is in fact being sold at the time of the application to register that
in itself would invalidate the registration because the design would have been
published and would not be "new or original" within subsection (2). What then
do the words mean? The defendants say they mean "susceptible of being sold
separately which they say this meter front is. But here again any part of any
article is susceptible of being sold separately even if, for example, the part
has to be forcibly removed from the whole of the article of which it forms
part.

The words used are "if that part is made and sold separately", and the phrase
as a whole, to my mind, confirms that both the manufacture Page 0648 and sale
of the part in question must be operations which are distinct from the
manufacture and sale of the whole article of which the "part" forms a
component. It is necessary to imply the words "to be" in order to construe the
phrase as not including sale of the part prior to or at the date of the
application for registration since this would produce an absurd result
contrary to Section 1(2) would invalidate the registration, and cannot
possibly have been the intention of the legislature.

25\. The facts and circumstances apart, from law it is distinct and
distinguishable. The present designed article cap is capable of being made
separately and sold separately. There is no question of any forcible
separation of any part of the designed cap. The registered cap itself is the
article for the purpose of the Act and registered accordingly.

26\. As noted, the words clear whereby the legislature has intended to enlarge
the definition and meaning of the word "article". The above English judgments
as well as law in our opinion cannot be the precedent and or the binding
decisions. Those Judgments, therefore, in no way assist the defendants to
support their case that the registered cap in question is not an article
within the definition and ambit of Section 2(a) of the Act.

27\. The fact which also cannot be overlooked at this stage of the proceeding
is that the Defendants themselves had applied for registration of their cap
separately which was rejected. There is no further Appeal or challenge raised
to the said rejection of their separately made cap for their registered
bottle. There is an affidavit on record filed by the Defendants itself shows
that the caps are made separately in the market. The caps which can be made
separately, it also includes that the said caps are "capable of being made and
sold separately". The dictionary meaning of the word capable is as under:

1\. WEBSTER ILLUSTRATED CONTEMPORARY DICTIONARY (ENCYCLOPEDIC EDITION):

Capable: adj. Having suitable ability; competent. - capable of 1. Having the
required ability or capacity for. 2. Open to; susceptible of. [< LL Capabilis
L capere take, receive] capa.ble.ness n.- capa.bly adv.

2\. BLACKS LAW DICTIONARY (SPECIAL DELUXE) (FIFTH EDITION): Capable:
Susceptible; competent; qualified; fitting; possessing legal power or
capacity. Able, fit or adapted for.

3\. CONCISE OXFORD ENGLISH DICTIONARY: Capable: adj. 1 (capable of doing
something) having the ability or quality necessary to do something. > Open to
or admitting of something. 2 (of a person) competent. - DERIVATIVES capably
adv.

-ORIGIN C16: from Fr., from late L. capabilis, from L. capere take or hold. 

28\. The phrase, therefore, "capable of being made and sold separately" covers
the cases not only that an article upon which a design article can be made but
also can be sold separately. Therefore, such article which is separate from
the other parts of the goods and registered separately as a design, if
intended and or desired by the proprietor of the registered article, as
capable Page 0649 of being made and sold, is saleable in the market
separately. Therefore, it is registerable under the Act. Admittedly, having
once registered under the Design Act pursuance to the existing provisions
including the enlarged definition of "an article" and "design", it is
difficult to accept the contention as raised by the learned Counsel appearing
for the Defendants and also the reasons given by the learned Judge on such
articles, though made separately and capable of being made and sold
separately, still it is not an article within the meaning/ definition under
Section 2(1) (a) of the Design Act. Only because such article in present
circumstances may not be put up in the market for sale separately. It is not
correct to say that the cap involved in the present case, cannot be said to
have an independent life as an article of commerce. The fact that such article
is "capable of being made and sold separately" that itself is sufficient. It
is difficult to accept the contention that such caps are not article as they
have no independent life as an article of commerce and not an adjunct of some
larger article.

29\. The phrase as inserted in the Act, now even covers "any part of an
article capable of being made and sold separately". Apart from any article of
manufacture, therefore, we have no doubt that the words inserted in the Act
have a wide meaning and are not to be restricted to exclude an article and or
even the part of an article which is "capable of being made and sold
separately", as contended and as held by the learned Judge. There is no
question of giving the restricted meaning to exclude finished design article
like cap in question which admittedly and factually were and are made
separately. These caps are capable of being sold separately.

30\. The fact remains that there is no dispute on record that both the parties
got the cap made separately. The concept of getting such cap registered
separately is known to the commercial world and specially business and the
market of the products in question. The Respondents cap registration was
rejected. The Appellants/ Plaintiffs got the registration under the Act.
Therefore, such proprietor of design article is definitely entitled to have
exclusive rights to claim the protection. Therefore, unless the said
registration is set aside on application either by the Defendants or such
person, at present it is final and binding to all.

31\. The Defendants defence even though permissible under Section 22(3)(4) of
the Act, unless decided in trial, at this stage, the rights created in view of
the registered design just cannot be taken away by raising such defence
including the validity/ legality of grant of registration to the Appellants/
Plaintiffs. The suit is still pending for trial. The issue about cancellation
of registration as need detailed material and inquiry kept open for the trial.

32\. The additional factor is that when a design is registered, the registered
proprietor of the design shall, subject to the provisions of the Act have a
copyright in the design during 10 years from the date of registration as
contemplated under Section 11 of the Act which is extendable for further 5
years.

33\. In our opinion, the Appellants cap falls within the ambit of definition
"an article" under Section 2(a) of the Act. There is no contra material and or
justification on record to hold otherwise. The Respondents contention Page
0650 and or contradictory stands with reference to the registration of such
article, in view of the above facts and circumstances, is unacceptable and
unsustainable.

34\. In view of the clear words and plain reading of the definition of "an
article" there is no question of reading in the definition that such article
has to be a commercial identity in the market of its own, as held by the
learned Judge. Once a part of an article if falls within the ambit of the
definition of "an article" and which is "capable of being made and sold
separately", further enlargement of the definition and or restriction of any
kind on the ground that such article and or part of an article has not
commercial identity in the market of its own, its not an article, is not
correct. The scheme of the Act with specific intention to enlarge the
definition of "an article" even to cover a part of an article just cannot be
overlooked, merely in view of the English statute and judgment passed upon the
English Law.

35\. Another facet is that, any design article which is capable of being made
and sold separately, is a prerogative and or a right of the registered owner
of the design to sale it separately or not. There is nothing pointed out and
or shown to demonstrate that once the design is registered, it is
nontransferable and or not assignable to third person. Even if such proprietor
decide not to make and or sale it separately and or allow and or permit to any
other person to use the said cap of the bottle of their products and or other
products still in view of the definition, as the only requirement is that such
article and or part of the article should have capacity and or capability
being made and sold separately and no other. The purchaser, infringer, and or
third person like Respondents cannot take shelter and take defence on this
ground that the article so designed, cannot be made and or sold separately,
and therefore, it is not "an article" within the ambit of the definition under
the Act and the registration as granted be rejected.

36\. We have allowed the Respondents to challenge the reasoning on merit of
infringement, in view of the Apex Court Judgment (Ravinder Sharma) (supra)
based upon Order 41 Rule 22(1) of the Civil Procedure Code. (C.P.C.). Even
otherwise, there is a case to deal with the merit of the matter, based on the
material available on the record. Both the parties have argued on merit of the
matter accordingly.

37\. The commercial identity of any article in the market cannot be judged
from the point of view of the objector of the cap of a bottle or such other
article. In the commercial market, the person like the Appellants who are
registered owner of the designed article, entitled to claim exclusive right
over the designed article. No third person is entitled to use and utilize the
said design on their articles without the consent and or permission from the
registered owner.

38\. Any distinct characteristic, feature, shape, size, pattern or composition
of lines and or colours applied to any article by any process in the finished
article need to be considered and judged solely by the eye of the third Page
0651 person including the Judges. In the present case, there is no dispute
that the Appellants bottles shape and configuration is registered, whereas,
the Respondents registration of separate cap was rejected. There is no dispute
about the shape, colour of the bottle. Both are comparatively same so far as
the shape is concerned. Even the shade of colour, principally both the bottles
are of blue shade/ colour. There is no dispute about any mechanism of the
construction of an article apart from colour combination as appeared in the
design. There is no dispute about the front side, isometric bottom view of the
Respondents bottle, which they got registered some time in the year 2004,
whereby, the registration of the cap of the said bottle as claimed and or as
designed/ was rejected. Whereas, by virtue of registration of cap design of
Parachute bottle, the Appellants have acquired the copyright of the said
design under the Act. The Appellants have exclusive manufacture and market
such bottle cap and to apply for such in product. The Appellants have been,
therefore, using the said registered design since July, 2000.

39\. Now, we have to see what are the identical configuration and or
protrusions which constitute a obvious infringement of Appellants registered
design of cap of bottle in question. There is a certificate on record dated
29th June, 2000 in favour of the Appellants with regard to the registered
design number on 181063 dated 10th December, 1999 in Clause 3 in the name of
Marico Industries Limited, Mumbai, in respect of the shape, configuration and
surface pattern of bottle cap of the Appellants. There is no claim in respect
of any mechanical or mechanism or construction or colour combination of the
article, including use of the letters or numerals appearing in the said
representation.

40\. We have seen and deliberated on the front, rear, left side, right side,
top, bottom, and isometric view of the Appellants Parachute cap of bottle and
also the cap of Respondents Cocoraj bottle.

41\. There is a clear different mark name with Parachute and Cocoraj with a
tick mark symbol on Parachute bottle. There is a single drop shape mark on
Cocoraj bottle. The word "Parachute" and "Cocoraj" written on different
letters, shape, size and design. The marks of both the bottles are different
of respective name i.e. "Parachute" and "Cocoraj". The Parachute cap consists
of a circular/ cylindrical elevation with cut outs at two ends. There is no
such shape of Respondents cap. The pattern of the Respondents cap is
combination of a concave and a convex surface with the intermediate part being
raised. There is a mark of "Parachute" on the top of the cap. The shape and
design of cap of Parachute from the top, rear, left side, right side and views
are different than "Cocoraj". The colour of the bottles as well as Cap of
"Parachute" is solid blue. Looking from the top and surface pattern of the
bottle cap, even from the point of view of the shape and configuration and
surface pattern of the bottle cap, both the bottles are not similar. The
colour of cap of "Cocoraj" is translucent blue. The edges of the caps of
"Cocoraj" are rounded. The top of the "Cocoraj" cap has embossed name
"Cocoraj" with an embossed tick mark symbol. On "Cocoraj" cap from front, the
plastic seal touches the top level of the cap or placed on the equal level.
Whereas the plastic seal on the "Parachute" cap or parallel level of the cap.
As some part of the cap about the seal is Page 0652 visible on "Parachute"
cap. The "Parachute" cap has a sharper edge from all sides.

42\. The similarities are:

a) The Shape of both the bottles is the same,

b) The basic blue shade is same,

c) The one side of both the caps having tied ribbon shaped hinge is similar,

d) Nozzle of both the caps are comparatively same but that can be seen only
after opening the cap and not otherwise. Comparative similarity is only the
mechanism of a flap with one side hinge on the cap. After opening the flap,
inner shape and size of both the caps are different.

43\. We are, therefore, of the view that both the caps do not have identical
configuration and protrusions as alleged and therefore, there is no question
of infringement of any registered design. Both the caps are not identical or
similar as contended. Though, both the bottles containing coconut oil are in
the market, we are, prima facie, of the view that there is no similarity of
the Respondents cap with that of the Appellants.

44\. In totality, we are of the opinion that, there are more differences in
these two bottles and specially in the caps in question. Both the bottles caps
are separately designed and identifiable by any consumer. There cannot be any
confusion in the mind, whosoever goes in the market to purchase oil of
particular brand as there is no complaint about the colour and shape of the
bottle and mechanism of the cap. It is difficult to accept the contention that
there is any similarity in the caps of "Parachute" and "Cocoraj". The
reasoning to that effect are also quashed and set aside by holding that there
is no similarity between these two caps on merit itself.

45\. The another aspect which cannot be overlooked is, the Respondents product
i.e. "Cocoraj" bottle with cap containing coconut oil based upon the
registered novelty in the shape are configuration of the bottle in particular
in the place marked "A" of the bottle as illustrated which remained still in
force since 07/07/2004 are in the market since then. There is no dispute about
the shape, size, colour and colour combination and mechanical and any other
mechanism of the construction of the Article of the bottle though selling the
same coconut oil in the same market. The suit in question alongwith Notice of
Motion filed on 4th October, 2006. There is no ad-interim relief granted in
favour of the Plaintiffs at any point of time, restraining the defendants/
Respondents from selling and or marketing their bottle with caps. The
Respondents/ Defendants have also averred which is supported by an affidavit,
that approximately 1,52,43,725 bottles here in this suit, with the caps in
question have been sold in the market from July 2004 to 2005. Apart from
further sale from 2005 till this date in a way i.e. the matter of trial but
still this fact just cannot be overlooked while dealing with the grant of
injunction in such matter, apart from delay and laches. By an order dated 27th
February, 2007, the Notice of Motion was dismissed.

46\. There is no interim relief of any sort in operation against the
Respondents. The suit is still pending. Therefore, considering the scope of
Page 0653 the Appellate Court in such matter and as elaborated with reference
to the grant of injunction under Order 39 Rule 1 readwith Section 43 of the
Code of Civil Procedure (for short, "CPC") as reported in Wander Ltd. and Anr.
v. Antox India P. Ltd., 1990 (Supp) Supreme Court Cases, 727, we are of the
view that there is no case made out by the Appellants to interfere with the
order of dismissal of the Notice of Motion but for the reasons recorded in
this Judgement. Therefore, we have though interfered with the reasoning but
considering the over all view of the matter as recorded above, we are also of
the view not to interfere with the order of dismissal of Notice of Motion.

47\. After visual examination of the registered design cap of the Appellants
and the cap of the Respondents, we are of the prima-facie view that both the
caps are dissimilar in shape. No case of piracy or any infringement is made
out. There is no case of imitation of registered design of the Appellants.
(Polar Industries Ltd.) (Supra)

48\. We are of the view that, cap is an article within the ambit of definition
of "an article" under Section 2(1) of the Design Act, unless set aside. It is
binding at this stage. Both the caps in question, are not similar and
identified as contemplated under the Act. There is no case made out for grant
of any injunction.

49\. Taking all this into account, the reasonings given by the learned Judge
are reversed and quashed and set aside on both the above counts but the order
of dismissal of Notice of Motion is maintained.

50\. In the result, for the above reasons the Appeal is disposed off.

No order as to costs.

