

Punjab-Haryana High Court

Commissioner Of Income-Tax, ... vs Gursahai Saigal. on 5 February, 1960

Equivalent citations: 1961 41 ITR 592 P H

JUDGMENT BISHAN NARAIN, J. - On the application of the Income-tax
Commissioner, Simla, the following question has been referred to this court
under section 66 (1) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 :

"Whether, on a true construction of sub-sections (6), (8) and (9) of section
18A of the Indian Income-tax Act, the interest referred to in sub-section (8)
is chargeable for failure on the part of an assessee to submit an estimate of
his income, and pay tax, as required by the terms of sub-section (3) of that
section ?"

The facts out of which this question has arisen are these. For the assessment
years 1948-49, 1949-50 and 1950-51 Gursahai Saigal neither sent to the Income-
tax Officer an estimate of the advance tax payable by him nor paid any advance
tax as contemplated in section 18A (3) of the Indian Income-tax Act. The
Income-tax Officer on making the regular assessment for these years added
interest to the tax after calculating the interest in the manner laid down in
sub-section (6) of this section. The assessees appeals were dismissed by the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner. On further appeals the Appellate Tribunal
(Delhi Bench) held that the assessee was not liable to pay interest under
section 18A (8) of the Income-tax Act. Thereafter, the Appellate Tribunal has
made this reference to this court on the application of the Income-tax
Commissioner.

The answer to this question depends upon the true construction of the various
sub-sections of section 18A of the Income-tax Act. I may summarise its
provisions so far as they are relevant for the present purposes.

Now section 18A of the Income-tax Act deals with payments of income-tax in
advance and is based on the principle "pay as you earn". It deals exhaustively
with the subject. The advance tax is payable in installments. In the case of
an old assessee it is the duty of the Income-tax Officer to determine the
amount of advance tax payable and this computation is made on the basis of the
amount of income-tax assessed in the previous year (sub-section (1)). It is,
however, open to the assessee to make this payment according to his own
estimate (sub-section (2)). A new assessee is under an obligation to estimate
the amount of the advance tax payable by him and to pay it (sub-section (3)).
We are not concerned with sub-sections (4) and (5) in the present case. Sub-
sections (6) to (8) deal with the assessees liability to pay interest in
certain circumstances and sub-section (9) deals with penalty. This amount of
interest is computed at the time of regular assessment proceedings for that
year. When the advance tax has been paid on the basis of the assessees own
estimate, whether by an old or a new assess, then if it is found that the
amount so paid is less than 80 per cent. of the amount determined in regular
proceedings, then the assessee is liable to pay interest on the amount of the
shortfall (sub-section (6)). He is also liable to pay interest if he has not
paid advance tax in accordance with the previous provisions (sub-section (8)).
If the Income-tax Officer is satisfied that the assessee had knowingly and
deliberately sent incorrect estimate of the advance tax payable, or that the
new assessee has without reasonable cause failed to comply with the provisions
of sub-section (3), then in either case the assessee is liable to pay penalty
under section 28 of the Income-tax Act with certain limitations with which we
are not concerned in the present case. It is, however, common ground that the
amount of penalty leviable under sub-section (9) far exceeds the interest
payable under sub-section (6) to (8).

The assessees case is that when a new assessee does not send an estimate of
the advance tax pays that amount then he fails to comply with the provisions
of sub-section (9) (b). According to the assessee, sub-section (8) applies
only to cases where there is failure to pay tax and does not apply to a case
where the new assessee neither sends his estimate nor pays tax. It is
surprising and unusual that an assessee should urge that he is liable to pay
penalty under section 28 of the Income-tax Act and is not liable to pay
interest on the shortfall but in the present case this argument has been
raised because it is stated that the period for levying penalty has expired.

There is no force whatsoever in the assessees contention. In the present case
admittedly no advance tax has been 18A of the Income-tax Act. Sub-section (8),
in terms, therefore, applied. There is nothing in the sub-section to exclude
its application to a case where estimates are not sent to the Income-tax
Officer. Failure to pay advance tax also amounts to failure to comply with the
provisions of sub-section (3) and to such a case sub-section (9) would also be
applicable. Before action under sub-section (9) (b) can be taken, the Income-
tax Officer should, however, satisfy himself that the failure was without any
reasonable cause. Without this finding action under sub-section (9) (b) cannot
be taken. Action under sub-section (8) has to be taken even if failure to pay
advance tax is due to accident or miscalculation or can be justified on any
other group. It follows that when advice tax is not paid, then the assessee is
liable both under sub-section (8) and sub-section (9), subject to certain
conditions. There is, however, nothing unreasonable in this situation. If the
tax is not paid because of miscalculation, etc., then a lighter penalty of
charge of interest is imposed but if it is not paid without reasonable cause,
then heavier penalty is imposed. It is always open to the Legislature to
impose heavier penalty for a default which has been committed deliberately. It
was suggested that it is not possible to compute tax in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (6) when no tax is paid and, therefore, sub-section
(8) does not apply to a case of non-payment of tax. There is no substance in
this argument. If no advance tax is paid at all, then it necessarily falls
short by 80 per cent. and interest is payable on the entire amount of tax in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6).

For these reasons, I would answer the question referred to us in the
affirmative. In the circumstances of the case, however, I would leave the
parties to bear their own costs of this reference.

INDER DEV DUA, J. - I agree.

Question answered in the affirmative.

