

Delhi High Court

Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. vs Shri Chander Sekhar on 23 March, 2012

Author: Rajiv Sahai Endlaw

    
    
              *IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    %                                      Date of decision: 23rd March, 2012
    
    +                        LPA No. 900/2010
    
    BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM LTD.                     ..... Appellant
                    Through: Mr. Sameer Agarwal, Advocate
    
                                      Versus
    
    SHRI CHANDER SEKHAR                                        ..... Respondent
                    Through:              Mr. Surinder Bir, Advocate.
    
    CORAM :-
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    
    RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J.
    

1\. This Intra-Court appeal impugns the judgment dated 03.05.2010 of the
learned Single Judge dismissing W.P.(C) No.2946/2010 preferred by the
appellant. The said writ petition was preferred impugning the order dated
10.11.2009 of the Central Information Commission (CIC) allowing the appeal
filed by the respondent and directing the appellant to disclose the
information sought.

2\. The appellant had floated a tender titled „GSM Phase-VI‟ for the
installation of 93 million GSM lines in four parts. M/s KEC International Ltd.
was one of the bidders in the said tender. The respondent, claiming to be one
of the shareholders of the said KEC International Ltd., on 02.07.2009 applied
under the provisions of the Right to Information Act, 2005 seeking the
following information:

LPA No.900/2010 Page 1 of 13

> "a. Copy of the complete Report of Evaluation of Tender on the Financial
> Bids received from various bidders against Part 3 of Tender No. IMPCS/PHASE
> VI/WZ/CGMT-MH/2008-09/1 dated 01.05.2009 opened on 28.02.2009 for West Zone;

> b. Copy of the complete Report of Evaluation of Tender on the Financial Bids
> received from various bidders against Part 3 of Tender No.CTD/IMPCS/TENDER/
> PHASE VI/2008-09 dated 01.05.2009 opened on 28.02.2009 for East Zone;

> c. Copy of the complete Report of Evaluation of Tender on the financial Bids
> received from various bidders against Part 3 of Tender No. CMTS/PB/P&D/PHASE
> VI/25M/TENDER/2008-09 dated 01.05.2009 opened on 28.02.2009 for North Zone;

> d. Copy of the complete Report of Evaluation of Tender on the Financial Bids
> received from various bidders against Part 3 of Tender No.
> TA/Cellone/SZ/2008/01 dated 01.05.2009 opened on 28.02.2009 for South Zone."

The respondent further claimed that by then the financial bids had been opened
in February, 2009 and evaluation thereof was over.

3\. The CPIO of the appellant vide letter dated 30.07.2009 declined the
request of the respondent for information on the ground that the information
LPA No.900/2010 Page 2 of 13 sought was of "commercial confidence" in nature
and claiming exemption from disclosure under Section 8(1)(d) of the Act.

4\. The respondent preferred first appeal contending that, the appellant was a
Government of India enterprise carrying on works in public interest, utilizing
government funds; that the tenders were open tenders; the financial bids were
already read out to other bidders at the time of opening of the bids and
nothing confidential remained therein; that the bidding process having
attained finality, no issues of commercial confidence remained. The first
appellate authority however vide order dated 08.09.2009 confirmed the order of
the CPIO, also for the reason of the appellant having signed Non Disclosure
Agreements with all the participating vendors and the disclosure of the
information sought being in violation of the said agreement.

5\. The CIC in its order dated 10.11.2009 allowing the appeal of the
respondent observed / held, i) that the evaluation process stood completed and
thus the commercial position of any of the bidders could not be adversely
affected by such disclosure; ii) the exemption under Section 8(1)(d) of the
Act is not available since the information was already in public domain owing
to the finalization and completion of the bidding process and evaluation and
cannot pose a threat to the competitive position of any of the bidders; iii)
it was in the larger public interest to disclose such information; iv) that
the Non Disclosure Agreements were valid only for the "Confidentiality Period"
i.e. till the opening of the bids; v) even otherwise such Non Disclosure
Agreements debarring access to information and thereby disrupting the
transparency and accountability of the public authority were in violation of
the very spirit of the Act and therefore illegal LPA No.900/2010 Page 3 of 13
to the extent they prevented disclosure beyond what was exempted under the
Act; vi) that thus the Non Disclosure Agreements if prevented disclosure
beyond the confidentiality period also, were illegal; vii) that the public
interest "far outweighs the weak contentions put up by the appellant to
protect the so called private interests"; viii) that even though the tender
process had been challenged in some of the High Courts but the same also did
not entitle the appellant to exemption. Accordingly, directions for disclosing
the information were issued.

6\. The learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition preferred by the
appellant impugning the order aforesaid of the CIC observing / holding,

a) that the writ petition filed by KEC International Ltd. impugning the tender
process had been finally dismissed by the Supreme Court finding no illegality
in the decision making process and declaring the party which was awarded the
contract as the lowest bidder - thus the objection to disclosure of
information on the ground of the matter being sub judice did not survive;

b) that the plea of the appellant of the confidentiality period as per the Non
Disclosure Agreements being in vogue for the reason of the formal contract
having not been entered into with the successful bidder was of no avail since
the bidding process was complete and the selection of the successful bidder
stood finalized; c) again for the reason of the bidding process having stood
completed, the question of the commercial interest of any of the bidders being
adversely affected by the disclosure did not arise; d) Section 22 of the Act
gives effect to the provisions of the Act notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 and any
other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by
LPA No.900/2010 Page 4 of 13 virtue of any law other than the RTI Act \-
consequently the Non Disclosure Agreements cannot be used by the appellant to
defeat the right to information under the Act; e) even otherwise the Non
Disclosure Agreements cannot be said to extend beyond the confidentiality
period defined in the agreement itself as the period between the opening of
the tender and the finalization of the bids.

7\. It was the contention of the appellant before this Bench that the bids in
the tender aforesaid had never been given the shape of the contract and had
been cancelled. This Bench before issuing notice of the appeal directed the
filing of an affidavit in this regard by the Chairman of the appellant. An
affidavit dated 24.01.2011 has been filed informing that the bids were
evaluated and L1, L2 etc. selected for Part-III and price negotiations held
with L1; that after negotiations the rates were recommended by the Negotiation
Committee to the competent authority for finalization / approval; that since
the case pertaining to GSM Phase-VI was being examined qua the allegation of
irregularity, the competent authority in its wisdom cancelled / scrapped the
tender; as a result of the scrapping, no contract came into existence and even
the Advance Purchase Order was not issued; that thus no question of giving any
kind of information arose; that making public the confidential information of
the tenderers particularly in view of signing of the Non Disclosure Agreements
would certainly affect the goodwill of the appellant and would result in
reduction in number of participating vendors / tenderers in subsequent tenders
floated by the appellant and which would further result in monetary loss as
due to reduction in competition there would be an increase in prices.

LPA No.900/2010 Page 5 of 13

8\. The appellant during the hearing has placed reliance on judgment of this
Court in Exmar NV Vs. Union of India 2006 (1) RAJ 229 (DB) on the aspect of
when the contract can be said to be concluded. It has further been contended
that the learned Single Judge has failed to notice Clause 18 of the Non
Disclosure Agreement whereunder the obligations of confidentiality were to
survive the expiration or termination of the agreement, for a period of two
years from the date the confidential information was disclosed or the
completion of business purpose, whichever is later. It is yet further urged
that the learned Single Judge has wrongly assumed that the contract stood
awarded to the successful bidder.

9\. Per contra, the respondent in the reply filed to the appeal has pleaded
that the appellant inspite of numerous representations and Court cases
averring irregularities, stonewalled and did not come clean; that ultimately
on representations to the Prime Minister‟s Office, a High Powered Committee
was constituted which found irregularities in the evaluation process and
recommended the scrapping of the tender; that the objection of the appellant
to disclosure of information is not for protection of the commercial and
confidential information furnished by any of the bidders but to safeguard its
own misdeeds during the evaluation process; that the Non Disclosure Agreements
signed by the appellant with the bidders are contrary to the spirit of the Act
and illegal; that the reluctance of the appellant to disclose information
relating to the tender which had already been scrapped was incomprehensible;
that the commercial confidentiality of bids is over once the financial bids
are opened and prices of all items of all the bidders including other details
are disclosed to all the bidders; that in fact in one of LPA No.900/2010 Page
6 of 13 the writ petitions aforesaid in other High Courts challenging the
tender such information had already been brought in public domain. The counsel
for the respondent during the hearing has also relied on the judgment dated
02.07.2009 of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in W.P.(C) No.9474/2009
titled Nokia Siemens Networks Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Union of India and on Canara Bank
Vs. The Central Information Commission AIR 2007 Kerala 225. He has also drawn
attention to the proviso after Section 8(1)(j) of the Act laying down that the
information which cannot be denied to the Parliament or State Legislature
shall not be denied to any person. It is contended that the information
aforesaid cannot be denied to the Parliament and hence the exemptions provided
in Section 8(1) of the Act would not be attracted.

10\. We, at the outset, deem it appropriate to discuss the issue generally as
the same is likely to arise repeatedly. Confidentiality or secrecy is the
essence of sealed bids. The same helps the contract awarding party to have the
most competitive and best rates / offer. The essential purpose of sealed
bidding is that the bids are secret bids that are intended by the vendor and
expected by bidders to be kept confidential as between rival bidders until
such time as it is too late for a bidder to alter his bid. Sealed bidding
means and must be understood by all those taking part in it to mean that each
bidder must bid without actually knowing what any rival has bid. The reason
for this, as every bidder must appreciate, is that the vendor wants to avoid
the bidders bidding (as they would do in open bidding such as at an auction)
by reference to other bids received and seeking merely to top those bids by
the smallest increment possible. The vendor's object is to get the bidders to
bid LPA No.900/2010 Page 7 of 13 "blind" in the hope that then they will bid
more than they would if they knew how far other bidders had gone.
Additionally, from each bidder's point of view his own bid is confidential and
not to be disclosed to any other bidder, and he makes his bid in the
expectation, encouraged by the invitation to submit a sealed bid, that his bid
will not be disclosed to a rival. If, therefore, a rival has disclosed to him
by the vendor the amount of another's bid and uses that confidential
information to pitch his own bid enough to outbid the other, this is totally
inconsistent with the basis on which each bidder has been invited to bid, and
the rival's bid is not a good bid; likewise if the rival adopts a formula that
necessarily means that he is making use of what should be confidential
information (viz. the bid of another) in composing his own bid. In such a
case, the amount of the other's bid is being constructively divulged to him.
The process of inviting tenders has an element of secrecy − since nobody knows
what would be the bid of the competitor, every one will try to show
preparedness for the best of the terms which will be acceptable to the
institution calling the tenders. This requires ensuring that the tenders are
not tampered with, the offers are not leaked to another bidder or even to the
officers of the institution for which the tenders are called. Secret bids thus
promote competition, guard against favouritism, improvidence, extravagance,
fraud and corruption and lead to award of contract, to secure the best work at
the lowest price practicable.

11\. Over the years the secret bids are not confined to the price only, which
may cease to be of any value or lose confidentiality once the bids are opened.
The bids/tenders today require the bidders to submit in the bids a host of
information which may help and be required by the tender calling LPA
No.900/2010 Page 8 of 13 institution to evaluate the suitability and
reliability of the contracting party. The bidders are often required to, in
their bids disclose information about themselves, their processes, turnover
and other factors which may help the tender calling institution to evaluate
the capability of the bidder to perform the contracted work. The secret
bids/tenders are often divided into technical and financial parts. The bidders
in the technical part may reveal to the tender calling institution their
technology and processes evolved and developed by them and which technology
and processes may not otherwise be in public domain and which the bidder may
not want revealed to the competitors and which technology/processes the bidder
may be using works for the other clients also and which technology/processes
if revealed to the competitors may lead to the bidder losing the competitive
edge in subsequent awards of contracts. If it were to be held that a bidder by
virtue of participating in the tender becomes entitled to all particulars in
the bids of all the bidders, the possibility of unscrupulous businessmen
participating in the tender merely for acquiring such information, cannot be
ruled out. Such disclosure may lead to the competitors undercutting in future
bids. We may at this stage notice that the Freedom of Information Act
prevalent in United States of America as well as the Freedom of Information
Act, 2000 in force in United Kingdom, both carve out an exception qua trade
secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and
which is privileged or confidential. The tests laid down in those
jurisdictions also, is of „if disclosure of information is likely to impair
government‟s ability to obtain necessary information in future or to cause
substantial harm to competitive position of person from whom information is
obtained‟. It has been held LPA No.900/2010 Page 9 of 13 that unless persons
having necessary information are assured that it will remain confidential,
they may decline to cooperate with officials and the ability of government to
make intelligent well-informed decisions will be impaired. Yet another test of
whether the information submitted with the bids is confidential or not is of
„whether such information is generally available for public perusal‟ and of
whether such information „is customarily made available to the public by the
business submitter‟. If it is not so customarily made available, it is treated
as confidential.

12\. Though the report of the appellant of evaluation of tenders, is a
document of the appellant but the evaluation therein is of the tenders of the
various bidders and the report of evaluation may contain data and other
particulars from the bids and which data/particulars were intended to be
confidential. If any part of the bids is exempt from disclosure, the same
cannot be supplied obliquely through the disclosure of evaluation report.

13\. What thus emerges is that a balance has to be struck between the
principle of promoting honest and open government by ensuring public access to
information created by the government on the one hand and the principle of
confidentiality breach whereof is likely to cause substantial harm to
competitive position of the person from whom information is obtained and the
disclosure impairing the government‟s ability to obtain necessary information
in future on the other hand. Also, what has been discussed above may not apply
in a proceeding challenge wherein is to the evaluation process. It will then
be up to the Court before which such challenge is made, to decide as to what
part of the evaluation process is to be disclosed to the challengers.

LPA No.900/2010 Page 10 of 13

14\. Questions also arise as to the information contained in the bids /
tenders of the unsuccessful tenderers. Often it is found that the same is
sought, to know the method of working and to adversely use the said
information in future contracts. Generally there can be no other reason for
seeking such information.

15\. Once we hold that the information of which disclosure is sought relates
to or contains information supplied by a third party and which the third party
may claim confidential, the third party information procedure laid down in
Section 11 of the Act is attracted. The said aspect has not been considered
either by the CIC or by the learned Single Judge.

16\. What we find in the present case is that the tender process has been
scrapped. The information which is being sought relates to the evaluation of
the bids by the appellant. Though the Non Disclosure Agreement extended the
obligation of confidentiality beyond the date of opening of the tenders also
but only for a period of two years from the date of disclosure or to the
completion of business purpose whichever is later. The business purpose stands
abandoned with the scrapping of the tenders. More than two years have elapsed
from the date when the information was submitted. Thus the said agreement now
does not come in the way of the appellant disclosing the information. However,
we are of the opinion that disclosure of such information which would be part
of the evaluation process would still require the third party information
procedure under Section 11 of the Act to be followed. As aforesaid, besides
the bid price, there may still be information in the bid and which may have
been discussed in the evaluation LPA No.900/2010 Page 11 of 13 process, of
commercial confidence and containing trade secret or intellectual property of
the bidders whose bids were evaluated.

17\. Though in the light of the view taken by us hereinabove, the question of
validity of the agreement need not to be adjudicated but since we have heard
the counsels, we deem it our duty to adjudicate upon the said aspect also.
Section 22 of the Act relied on by the learned Single Judge though giving
overriding effect to the provisions of the Act still saves the instruments
"having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act". This Court in Vijay
Prakash v. Union of India AIR 2010 Delhi 7 has held that though Section 22 the
Act overrides other laws, the opening non-obstante clause in Section 8 confers
primacy to the exemptions enacted under Section 8(1). Thus, once the
information is found to be exempt under Section 8(1), reliance on Section 22
is misconceived. Whether the information is of such nature as defined in
Section 8(1)(d) of the Act, can be adjudicated only by recourse to Section 11
of the Act.

18\. We however do not deem it necessary to adjudicate on the proviso after
Section 8(1)(j) of the Act and leave the same to be adjudicated in an
appropriate proceedings. We may however notice that a Division Bench of the
Bombay High Court in Surupsingh Hrya Naik Vs. State of Maharashtra AIR 2007
Bombay 121 has held that the proviso has been placed after Section 8(1)(j) and
would have to be so interpreted in that context and the proviso applies only
to Section 8(1)(j) and not to other sub- sections.

LPA No.900/2010 Page 12 of 13

19\. The appeal is therefore partly allowed. The matter is remanded back to
the CIC. If the respondent is still desirous of the information sought, the
CIC shall issue notice to the parties whose bids are evaluated in the
evaluation process information qua which is sought by the respondent and
decide the request of the respondent after following the procedure under
Section 11 of the Act.

No order as to costs.

RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE MARCH 23, 2012 „gsr‟..

LPA No.900/2010 Page 13 of 13

