

Delhi High Court

Rotela Auto Components (P) Ltd. ... vs Jaspal Singh And Ors. on 11 October,
2001

Equivalent citations: 95 (2002) DLT 830

Author: V Jain

Bench: V Jain

JUDGMENT Vijender Jain, J.

1\. Plaintiffs filed a suit for perpetual injunction, inter alia, praying for
injunction against infringement of design, passing off and rendition of
accounts. It is the case of the applicants-plaintiffs that plaintiff No. 1 is
a company registered in India and plaintiff No. 2 is a Corporation existing
under the laws of Republic of China and having its registered officer at
Taiwan. The applicants are the sole distributor and constituted attorney in
India for the Top Open Locks and Pin Locks manufactured by plaintiff No. 2.

2\. Mr. Arun Bhardwaj, learned counsel appearing for the applicants-
plaintiffs, has contended that plaintiffs are manufacturing unique and
distinctive locks since the period of its registration under the provisions of
Designs Act, 2000. Some of the salient features of the plaintiffs Top Open
Locks are as under:-

a) Top View:

(i) It is a shackle having five (pentagon) layers.

(ii) There is one top layer, two corner layers and two flat layers.

(iii) The shackle is detachable.

(iv) The whole shackle is made of steel having plastic cover.

b) Front View:

(i) There is a rectangular panel having two side panels.

(ii) This is a raised portion on the lock.

(iii) the hole for the lock is the center of the raised rectangular panel.

(iv) There is one-piece bricket holder designed in special manner.

Back View

(i) The back view contains a chrome plain sheet, which has been coated with
black colour. It can be used as plain sheet and/or coated with different
colours.

And salient features of Pin Locks which is registered are as under:-

(i) The front portion is having a Knob on the left hand side, holes in the
center for operation/use of the keys.

(ii) The back portion is having a long pin on the left hand side and a knob
hand side and both are made of steel. In the center of back portion of the
locks there are two holes.

3\. It was contended before me that by virtue of extensive user the plaintiff
has acquired exclusive right to the adoption and use of distinctive designs.
It was contended by Mr. Bhardwaj that defendants have adopted the identical
features and copied the same deceptively. It was contended by the learned
counsel for the plaintiffs that adoption and application of the identical or
deceptively similar designs by defendants amounts to an act of piracy within
the meaning of Section 22 of the Designs Act, 2000 and the defendants cannot
have any justification to adopt the plaintiffs' distinctive designs and cannot
be allowed to earn profits in illegal manner. It was also contended that
defendants were guilty of passing off their goods by giving an impression that
they are the seller of the genuine goods manufactured by the plaintiffs. On
10th July, 2001 this Court granted an ex parte interim injunction in favor of
the plaintiffs-applicants. Subsequently on 25th July, 2001 an application for
vacation of the stay was filed by the defendants. In sum and substance the
case of the applicants is that the plaintiffs design of the locks, its shape,
configuration, pattern and composition of lines is a design which has been
registered by the Controller of design, who has granted a certificate of
registration in terms of Section 9 of the Designs Act.

4\. It was contended before me that once certificate of registration has been
granted, there is a prima facie evidence in favor of confirming the injunction
and that would be the effect of Sub-section 4 of Section 10 read with Section
38 of the Designs Act with regard to evidential value of such certificate of
registration. Mr. Bhardwaj contended that cancellation of grant of
registration can only be done if the defendants had challenged the same on the
ground as mentioned in Section 19 of the Act. It was then contended that in
the absence of any application for cancellation not filed till the filing of
the suit by the plaintiffs, the defendants had no right to continue with the
piracy of the design in terms of Section 22 of the Act and in terms of Sub-
section 2 (b) of Section 22 the non-applicants/defendants had to be restrained
by grant of an injunction.

5\. It was contended by Mr. Bhardwaj that arguments of the defendants that in
pursuance to Sub-section 3 of Section 22 the ground on which registration of a
design may be cancelled under Section 19 shall not be available as a ground of
defense to the defendants, Mr. Bhardwaj has a cited a Full Bench decision of
this Court in Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.) v. Galaxy Footwear New Delhi
2000 PTC 1 (FB) in which it is held:-

"In our view, these are matters where no hard and fast rule can be laid down
Section 53 creates a right in a registered owner. In the absence of an
application for cancellation of the design such a right can be enforced and no
defense can be taken based on a ground of cancellation. But once an
Application for cancellation has been made then it would not be open for the
Court, trying the Suit under Section 53, to turn a blind eye to the pendency
of such Application......"

6\. It was further contended that after the decision of the Full Bench in
Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)'s case (supra) it is no more res integra that
grounds available under Section 19 of the Act will not be available to a
defendant if he has not filed an application for cancellation of the
registration of the design. On the basis of aforesaid arguments, it was
contended by Mr. Bhardwaj that the injunction granted ex parte be confirmed.

7\. On the other hand, Mr. V.P. Singh, learned counsel appearing for the
defendant No. 3, contended that the new Designs Act was enacted in the year
2000 and there is no propriety right in a good or article which is functional.
Mr. Singh took great pains in explaining that the design of locks was
previously published in different magazines. He stated that documents have
been filed by the defendants to show that the design of locks in which the
applicants are canvassing propriety right, was published in 1995. The said
documents are at page-6 of the paper book, same kind of locks were published
by Yih Ter Enterprise Co. Ltd. of Taiwan, page-7 of the paper book, and by
Chen Lie Enterprise Co. Ltd. of Taiwan, page-8 of the paper book, and by
Comrex Corporation of Taiwan, page-11, TTG (Taiwan Transportation Equipment
Guide) as well as by the plaintiffs and other companies in 1997 as per
documents filed by the defendants, it was contended that on account of prior
publication the case of infringement in respect of said locks cannot be
agitated by the plaintiffs. He has also contended that there could be no
monopoly in respect of matters relating to design as the shape or a particular
kind of belly of locks and curd top was pure and simple functional features
and no novelty could be claimed in respect of the same. Mr. Singh contended
that there cannot be any propriety right in goods of utility and functional
nature, even otherwise there is no novelty in the goods of the plaintiffs and
injunction order be vacated. It was next contended by the counsel for the
defendant No. 3 that locks in question were originally manufactured by a
company called 'Multi Lock' which was an Israeli company and, therefore, on
that score also the plaintiffs cannot claim any monopoly in the design of
locks. Mr. Singh contended that the provisions of Sub-section 3 of Section 22
of the Designs Act, 2000 was incorporated in the year 2000 which was not in
existence under Section 53 of the Designs Act, 1911. What was contended before
me by Mr. Singh is that legislature in its wisdom has incorporated Sub-section
3 of Section 22 by which the defendant is entitled to avail every ground as
mentioned in Section 19 as a ground of defense and, therefore, if the
defendants, prima facie, had shown by the documents that the design has been
previously published in any other country prior to the date of registration,
no injunction can be granted.

8\. Mr. Singh contended that this Court in Prayag Chand Agarwal v. Mayur
Plastics Industries has held:-

".....But in view of the facts that the broad pattern of the two soles seems
to be the same and the entire sole of both the shoes have same patterns, cuts,
rigid roofs and lines pattern and in view of the fact that law is well settled
that when serious disputed question on various grounds such as prior
publication, lack of originality, trade variation is raised in a particular
case, no injunction should be granted. Taking into consideration that the
impugned design is registered in favor of the plaintiff in the year 1995 and
the same having been shown to be in use from 1988 onwards i.e. prior to the
registration of plaintiff's design and plaintiff has prima facie failed to
establish that he was the originator of the design, it is difficult to injunct
the defendant."

9\. Counsel for the defendant No. 3 also cited Vacuum Flask Ltd. and Anr. v.
Eagle Flask Pvt. Ltd. 64 (1996) DLT 103. In support of his arguments that when
a design is published prior in time the plaintiffs cannot claim any
injunction, learned counsel for the defendant No. 3 has cited Wimco Ltd. v.
Meena Match Industries, Sivakasi and Ors. . Learned counsel for the defendant
No. 3 has also cited Niky Tasha India (P) Ltd. v. Faridabad Gas Gadgets (P)
Ltd. AIR 1985 Delhi 136 in which it is held:-

"It is well settled, both in India and in England, that an interlocutory
injunction will not normally be granted where damages will provide an adequate
remedy should the claim succeed. Furthermore, the Court will not grant an
interlocutory injunction unless satisfied that there is a real probability of
the plaintiff succeeding on the trial of the suit. Where the design is of a
recent date no injunction should be granted. More so, when there is a serious
question as to the validity of the design to be tried in the suit and an
application for cancellation has been made. Where a person is entered as a
proprietor of a registered design, that is under the Act no conclusive proof
that the plaintiff is the proprietor of the design, but only a prima facie
evidence that he is the proprietor. The plaintiff has this advantage that if
no evidence at all is given then the certificate is sufficient evidence that
he is the proprietor. In such a case every ground on which a registered design
may be cancelled under the Act should be available by way of defense to a suit
for infringement. It will be odd to hold that on the strength of a recent
registered design, the plaintiff can claim an absolute right to restrain
everyone else from carrying on his business unless and until the registered
design of the plaintiff is cancelled in appropriate proceedings by a competent
court of law."

    
    
    10. To somewhat similar effect   B.K. Plastic Industries v. Jayantilal Kalidas Savani     is also cited by the counsel for the defendant No. 3 in which it is held:-
      ".....Even if a design which is original but is published earlier than the date of registration the registration may be revoked....." 
     
    
    11. He has also cited   Prem Singh v. Ceeam Auto Industries     Texla  Metals & Plastics Pvt. Ltd. v. Anil K. Bhasin and Ors.  2001 PTC 146 (Del). Another case was cited by the counsel for defendant No. 1   Monsanto Company v. Coramandal Indag Products (P) Ltd.  .
     
    
    

12\. During the course of arguments which started on 21st September, 2001 a
statement was made by Mr. V.P. Singh, may be to overcome the difficulty
created by the Full Bench judgment of this Court in Metro Plastic Industries
(Regd.)'s case (supra) that the defendants have also filed an application for
cancellation before the Controller on 25th September, 2001. The arguments
concluded on 27th September, 2001.

13\. Mr. V.P. Singh further contended that the defense available pursuant to
Sub-section 3 of Section 22 read with grounds available for cancellation of
registration under Section 19 of the Act be read together and if the same are
available to the defendants, injunction as prayed for by the plaintiffs cannot
be granted. Mr. Singh contended that Section 107 of the Patents Act is
paramateria with Section 22(3) of Designs Act and Section 64 of the Patents
Act is paramateria with Section 19 of the Designs Act. A Division Bench of
this Court had the occasion to deal with Section 107 read with Section 64 of
the Patents Act and if both are read in conjunction, the plaintiffs would not
be entitled for injunction. In Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers a
Division Bench of this Court held:-

"The defendant has taken out a large number of other pleas to bring the case
under Section 64 of the Act which read with Section 107, could be grounds of
defense irrespective of whether the defendant has applied for revokation or
not."

14\. On the basis of the aforesaid arguments learned counsel for the
defendants has argued that the injunction be vacated.

15\. I have given my careful consideration to the arguments advanced by the
learned counsel appearing for the parties. While deciding the controversy
between the parties this Court has to prima facie see as to whether the
plaintiffs are originator of the said design of locks or plaintiff itself is a
pirator of other manufacturing companies who are manufacturing similar type of
locks. The design may be applied to any kind of article but some novelty or
originality must exist in a substantial degree otherwise it would paralyse the
industry and make the registration of a design a trap for honest traders.
Court has also to see whether the design of the plaintiffs was original or the
design was prior published. In event of registration of design of recent date,
whether injunction should continue on account of registration of design when
there is a serious dispute about prior publication of the design. The law is
well settled that when serious disputed questions on various grounds such as
prior publication, lack of originality, trade variation is used in a
particular case, injunction will not follow as a matter of routine. From the
perusal of documents on record in order to determine, prima facie, whether the
design is new or original, no substantial difference is visible from the
design which was published by other companies in the year 1995, 1997 and 1998
and the design of locks of the plaintiffs-applicants.

16\. Before dealing with the merit of the controversy it has to be kept in
mind that both are locking devices. Locks are manufactured to be fixed on
'Gear Sticks' in the car. Whether there is any novelty in the locks
manufactured by the plaintiffs, from the documents filed by the defendants on
record, prima facie, the applicants can neither claim originality nor novelty
in their design of locks. The locks as manufactured by the applicants have
been manufactured by certain other Taiwanese companies and Korean companies,
whose advertisements have been published, same has been filed on record by
defendants, these documents belong to the period 1995, 1997 and 1998. The
locks so advertised in the journal are similar to the locks manufactured by
the plaintiffs-applicants, therefore, the plaintiffs cannot claim any novelty
in the locks. The concept of novelty or originality was considered in Western
Engineering Company v. America Lock Company 2nd (1973) II Delhi 178 in which
it is held:-

"A large body of case law has been built up during the years, to explain what
is meant by 'novelty and originality'. As the English law on the subject is
almost the same as in India, the English cases are also a great help in
determining the principles to be applied. In fact there are very few Indian
decisions on the subject. Generally, the test for novelty and originality is
dependent on determining the type of mental activity involved in conceiving
the design in question. If the design is original, then the designer must have
conceived some thing new; if the design is a mere trade variation of a
previous design then the designer could be said to have merely kept an
existing design in view and made some changes in its. Taking the instant case,
it is clear that the previously existing design was almost exactly the same as
the design of M/s. Western Engineering Company as well as that of M/s. America
Lock Company in some respects. The only modification made in the existing
design was to change the position of the lick. Instead of the lock being fixed
sideways into the projection so that the lock could be operated with a key
inserted from the front instead of the side. The lock itself being in the form
of protruding cylinder. There is, therefore, some original mental application
involved in conceiving the new design. The designer must have thought that the
lock could be operated, perhaps more conveniently by having the key-hole in
the front instead of the side. To that extent there is some novelty and
originality in the design of M/s. Western Engineering Company. It is true,
however, that this novelty can also be treated as being merely a variation in
the existing design."

17\. In Philips v. Harbo Rubber Co. (1928) 37 R.P.C. 233(2) it was held:-

"The introduction of ordinary trade variants into an old Design cannot make it
new or original. For example, if it is common practice to have or not to have
spikes in the soles of running shoes, a man does not make a new and original
Design out of an old type of running shoes by putting spikes into the sole.
The working world, as well as the trade world, is entitled at its will to
take, in all cases, its choice of ordinary trade variants for use in any
particular instance, and no patent and no registration of a Design can prevent
an ordinary workman from using or not using trade knowledge of this kind."

18\. A person looking at one lock than looking at the other lock cannot be
deceived. Both locks bear the name on the locks and the cases of these types
have to be decided taking into consideration when a person looking at
plaintiffs' lock and if at that time he is offered defendants' lock, whether
he would take the lock of the defendants as that of the plaintiffs? Halbury's
Laws of England, Volume 38 on the question of infringement, appearing at
page-675 in para-1116 state:-

"1116. Design not substantially different from registered design.

The question whether a design which is alleged to infringe a registered design
is or is not an infringement must be determined by the eye alone. The court
has to decide only whether the alleged infringement has the same shape or
pattern and must eliminate the question of the identity of function, since
another design may have parts fulfillling the same functions without being an
infringement. Small differences in detail do not necessarily present,
infringement, but generally speaking, if under normal conditions of user the
eye would not confuse the two designs, there is no infringement. If there is
some outstanding feature in the registered design which is not reproduced,
this would generally negative infringement. It is not an actionable imitation
merely to take the idea suggested by the design unless it works out in the way
protected by the registration. Where an article may be readily manipulated
into a position similar to the illustration of a design registration, there
will be infringement."

19\. The applicants are manufacturing the lock under the names 'Onelus'
whereas defendants are manufacturing the locks under the name of 'Autocops'.
It was the case of the defendants that in Taiwan itself there were 50
manufactures of locks conforming to the design as has been manufactured by the
principles of the plaintiffs-applicants as that kind of lock was first time
manufactured by 'Multi Lock Limited' based in Israel about 15 years back. Even
otherwise defendants have disputed that the locks of the defendants are
similar in its configuration and shape in the following manner:-

GEAR LOCK - SHACKLE TYPE ONELUS AUTOCOPS

1\. Shackle Material is normal Shackle material is type. is Hardened.

    
    
    2. Key-hole is protected from                Key-hole is protected
    dust by a shutter cover.                     from dust by normal
    lid cover.
    
    3. For holding the shackle                   Autocop has two 
    in unlocked position.                        plastic hooks to hold
    Onelus has designed a                        the shackle, without
    special metal balls with                     any spring action.
    spring action to hold the 
    shackle.
    
    4. The shutter knob has radium               Not applicable in this
    for easy access of key in                    case.
    dark.
    
    5. Plastic casing is of                      Plastic casing is of
    different quality and                        different quality.
    on different platform 
    of design.
    
    6. Replacement key/customer                  On different platforms
    identification cards are
    designed on different
    platforms.
    
    7. Packaging is in slots of                   Normal packaging
    of thermocol.                                 without any thermocol.
    
    8. No mention of the logo                    Autocop logo embossed
    on shackle.                                   on the plastic portion
                                                  of the shackle.
    
    9. Block casing inside the                   Casing is chrome
    plastic cover.                               plated with hardening
                                                 and Autocop logo
                                                 embossed at the bottom
    
    10. Key design is on different
    platform.
    
    11. 7-cylinder key.                          10 cylinder key.
    
    12. One spring to throw out                   Two springs to throw
    shackle.                                       out the shackle.
    
                  Gear shift lock pin                       Gear shift pin 
    
                      type ONELUS                               type AUTOCOP. 
    
    1. Pin : cylindrical                         Pin : truncated
    cylindrical
    
    2. Body : black powder                       Body : chrome plated
    coated, looks and                            looks and better
    quality are different.                       quality.
    
    3. Pin : moulded plastic                     Pin head : single piece
    head.                                        chrome plated.
    
    4. Key : seven cylinder                      Key : ten cylinder
    
    5. Pin material : material                   Pin material : hardened
    mild steel                                   stainless steel
    
    6. Key latch : zinc plated                   Key latch : hardened
    steel                                        molybdenium.
    
    7. Second pin : cylindrical                  Second pin : truncated
    pin.                                         cylindrical. It does
                                                 not move while it is
                                                 locked. Chances of
                                                 breakage of the second
                                                 pin are minimum.
    
    8. Body : welded steel body.                 Body : stainless steel
                                                 hardened body.
    
    9. Touch feel look is                        Touch feel looks are 
    different.                                   different.
    
    
     
    
    

20\. Word 'published' used in Section 19 or under Section 4 of the Designs Act
has not been defined under the Designs Act, 2000. It is published if a design
is no longer a secret. There is publication if the design has been disclosed
to the public or public has been put in possession of the design. Russel-
Clarke in Copyright in Industrial Design, 4th Edition, pages 41-42 says that:-

".....It is sufficient, and there will be publication if the knowledge was
either--

(1) Available to members of the public; or (2) Actually in fact shown and
disclosed to some individual member of the public who was under no obligation
to keep it secret.

It is not necessary design should have been actually used. There will just as
much be publication if it is shown that it was known to the public without
ever having been actually put into use. Thus, publication may be of two types:

(a) Publication in prior documents,

(b) Publication by prior user."

21\. The legislature in its wisdom by enacting Designs Act, 2000 does not want
to stop the progress in industrial products as that would amount to pin down
the competitors and in the process the technology would be blocked, same would
result in clogging the economic growth. I feel substance in the arguments of
the defendants that locks manufactured by the applicants are functional in
nature and these are items of common use and the same lacks novelty are
originality apart from being prior published.

22\. Now coming to the another interesting argument advanced by the learned
counsel for the parties with regard to availability of grounds as mentioned in
Section 19 of the Designs Act, 2000 in terms of Section 22(3) of the Act.
Section 19 and Section 22 of the Act are reproduced below:-

19\. Cancellation of registration.-- (1) any person interest may present a
petition for the cancellation of the registration of a design at any time
after the registration of the design, to the Controller on any of the
following grounds, namely:-

(a) that the design has been previously registered in India; or

(b) that it has been published in India or in any other country prior to the
date of registration; or

(c) that the design is not a new of original design; or

(d) that the design is not registerable under this Act; or

(e) that it is not a design as defined under Clause (d) of Section 2.

(2) An appeal shall lie from any order of the Controller under this section to
the High Court, and the Controller may at any time refer any such petition to
the High Court, and the High Court shall decide any petition so referred."

22\. Piracy of registered design.--(1) During the existence of copyright in
any design, it shall not be lawful for any person--

(a) for the purpose of sale to apply or cause to be applied to any article in
any class of articles in which the design is registered, the design or any
fraudulent or obvious limitation thereof, except with the license or written
consent of the registered proprietor, or to do anything with a view to enable
the design to be so applied; or

(b) to import for the purposes of sale, without the consent of the registered
proprietor, any article belonging to the class in which the design has been
registered, and having applied to it the design or any fraudulent or obvious
imitation thereof; or

(c) knowing that the design or any fraudulent or obvious imitation thereof has
been applied to any article in any class of articles in which the design is
registered without the consent of the registered proprietor, to publish or
expose or cause to be published or exposed for sale that article.

(2) If any person acts in contravention of this section, he shall be liable
for every contravention--

(a) to pay to the registered proprietor of the design a sum not exceeding
twenty-five thousand rupees recoverable as a contract debt, or

(b) If the proprietor elects to bring a suit for the recovery of damages for
any such contravention, and for an injunction against the repetition thereof,
to pay such damages as may be awarded and to be restrained by injunction
accordingly"

23\. It was contended by Mr. Bhardwaj that in view of conflicting opinion in
two Division Benches of this Court, a Full Bench judgment in Metro Plastic
Industries (Regd.)'s case (supra) set at rest the controversy that when no
application for cancellation has been filed before the Controller, the same
cannot be urged as a ground of defense.

24\. It was contended by Mr. Bhardwaj that if there is no evidence at all
before the Court at this stage then certificate is sufficient evidence that
the applicants are the proprietor of the design and injunction must follow. In
Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.) (supra), Full Bench held:--

"......Section 53 did not contemplate an absolute right in the owner to
prevent all other persons from infringing that design under all
circumstances...."

25\. It was further held in Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)'s case (supra):--

"At this stage it must be clarified that we are not holding that the rights
conferred by Section 53 can be defeated merely by some defense being taken. In
the absence of an application under Section 51A having been filed, such a
defense would not be available. It is the filing of an Application under
Section 51A which brings into cloud the registration of the design. Thus
pending such an Application Court cannot ignore the grounds taken therein.
This is because both Sections 51A and 53 have to be read harmoniously and in a
manner that the neither is rendered nugatory or ineffective.

Therefore, in our view, neither the extreme view taken in Niky Tasha's case or
in Rotomac Pen's case are correct.

In our view, these are matters where no hard and fast rule can be laid down
Section 53 creates a right in a registered owner. In the absence of an
application for cancellation of the design such a right can be enforced and no
defense can be taken based on a ground of cancellation. But once an
Application for cancellation has been made then it would not be open for the
Court, trying the Suit under Section 53, to turn a blind eye to the pendency
of such Application....."

26\. From the Full Bench decision in Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)'s case
(supra) it was urged before me by Mr. Bhardwaj that as the defendants have not
filed an application under Section 19 of the act before the Controller of
Designs in view of Full Bench decision, the grounds mentioned in Section 19 of
the Act cannot be taken in defense by the defendants.

27\. I am afraid in view of new Designs Act, 2000 the Full Bench decision in
Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)'s case (supra) will not be of any held to the
applicants-plaintiffs. Under the Designs Act, 1911, Section 53 did not have
any provision like Sub-section (3) of Section 22, therefore, when the Full
Bench of this Court was dealing with the provisions of Designs Act under the
Act of 1911, it was in that context that the Full Bench held that if there was
no application for cancellation of design made, no defense can be taken based
on grounds as available in the grounds for cancellation of registration of a
design. As far as present Act is concerned, the legislature in its wisdom by
incorporating Sub-section (3) of Section 2 of the Act has made every ground,
on which registration of a design may be cancelled, available as a ground of
defense. The ground on which cancellation can be sought of registration are
enumerated in Section 19 of the Act. It may be noticed that the design is a
conception, suggestion or idea of a shape and not an article. If is has
already been anticipated, it is not new or original. If it has been pre-
published, it cannot claim protection as publication before registration
defeats the proprietor's rights to protection under the Act.

28\. Looking it from any angle from the documents placed on record the design
has been pre-published and, therefore, it cannot claim protection. In view of
the fact that registration of design is of recent date, the design having been
published earlier, the ground of defense as mentioned in Section 19 can be
taken by the defendants pursuant to Sub-section (3) of Section 22 of the
Designs Act, 2000, therefore, no injunction can be granted as there is a
serious dispute as to the validity of the design to be tried in the suit.
Before closing the arguments affidavit has been filed by the defendants that
application for cancellation has already been made by the defendants before
the appropriate authority. The applicants are not entitled to the injunction.
I, therefore, vacate the injunction order granted earlier. The order dated
10th July, 2001 stands vacated. The application of the plaintiff is dismissed.
Nothing said earlier would be an expression of opinion on the merit of the
case. However, the defendants are directed to keep an account of the sale of
the impugned product. The defendant shall submit the statement after every six
months in Court. The defendants shall also give an undertaking within six
weeks that they will pay the damages to the plaintiffs if ultimately
plaintiffs succeed in the suit.

29\. With these observations, IA. no. 5891/2001, is dismissed and IA. nos.
6577/2001 are allowed.

30\. Applications are disposed of accordingly.

Suit No. 869/1992

31\. List this matter in Court for framing of issues on 03rd April, 2002.

