

Madras High Court

C. Cunniah And Co. By Partners M. ... vs Balraj And Co. By Partners S. ... on
4 February, 1959

Equivalent citations: AIR 1961 Mad 111

Author: G Pillai

Bench: P Rajamannar, G Pillai

JUDGMENT Ganapatia Pillai, J.

1\. This appeal against the judgment and decree-of Ramaswami J. in C.S. No.
127 of 1953 arises out of a suit instituted by the appellants as plaintiffs
for the reliefs of injunction, damages and accounts against the respondents.
The appellants, Messrs, C. Cunniah and Co., are a firm of merchants carrying
on business in Madras City in pictures, picture frames etc. In 1932, according
to the case in the plaint, one Sri T. M. Subramaniam drew a picture, M. O. 1
of Lord Balasubramanya and gave it the title of Mayurapriya.

On 13-7-1938, he assigned the copyright in this picture to the appellant firm.
From 1940 onwards, the appellant firm were making and selling printed copies
of this picture to the public. There was, however, a temporary stoppage of the
sale between 1946 and 1950 owing to scarcity of printing materials due to war
conditions. However, the printing and sale were resumed from 1950 onwards. The
appellant firm got this picture registered under the Trade Marks Act of 1940
sometime in 1952.

Sometime before October 1952, it came to the knowledge of the appellant firm
that the respondent firm was printing and selling copies of a close and
colourable imitation of the appellants' picture under the style of Bala
Murugan. The appellants' case is that the Picture "Bala Murugan" printed and
sold by the respondents is a colourable imitation of the picture "Mayura
Priya" in which the appellant firm owns the copyright.

Though called upon to cease the sale of the picture "Bala Murugan", the
defendants-respondents refused to comply with this demand. The plaintiffs
appellants, therefore, came forward with the suit asking for an injunction,
prohibiting the respondent firm from printing or selling the picture "Bala
Murugan" and also for a decree for damages in the sum of Rs. 2000 for
infringement of the copyright in their picture "Mayura Priya" and for an
account of the profits made by the defendants respondents by the sale of their
picture "Bala Murugan" and for seizure of the unsold copies of that picture.

2\. The respondents-defendants contended that their picture was an independent
production by the artist D. W. 1 and was not a copy of the plaintiffs' picture
"Mayura Priya". They also "contended that the appellants had not acquired
copyright in the picture known as Mayura Priya, because, the subject dealt
with in that picture was a common subject, in which no copyright could be
acquired by anyone.

3\. The claim in the plaint was put forward both as an infringement of
copyright and as an infringement of the registered trade mark right. However,
during the trial, the case of infringement of trade mark was given up, as
admittedly the picture "Mayura Priya" is not used as a trade mark in relation
to any class of goods.

4\. The learned Judge, Ramaswami J. who tried the suit, came to the conclusion
that the artist D. W. 1 had drawn the defendants' picture "Bala Murugan" from
his own trained imagination having regard to the conventional ideas and
without any help derived from or resort to the picture "Mayura Priya." On the
question of the picture "Mayura Priya" being the subject of copyright, the
learned Judge found in favour of the appellants. However he dismissed the suit
on his finding that the defendants had not infringed the copyright of the
plaintiffs in their picture "Mayura Priya".

5\. Mr. K. S. Ramamurthi, the learned counsel for- the respondents, made a
feeble attempt to contend that no copyright could be acquired in the picture,
M.O. 1, styled "Mayura Priya", because, it was the representation of a common
subject like a painting of the deity "Bala Subrahmanya" made from conventional
ideas as to his appearance in human form. It is well established that, in
order to obtain copyright production for literary, domestic, musical and
artistic works, the subject dealt with need not be original, nor the ideas
expressed be something novel. What is required is the expenditure of original
skill or labour in execution and not originality of thought.

Thus, though pictorial representation of Lord Balasubrahmanya in a human form
is a subject which is common to everyone, still, if a picture of Lord
Balasubrahmanya drawn by an artist made up of conventional ideas as to his
posture, his form, the ornaments he wears, the yahanam he uses and other
matters, the picture produced is still the result of skill and labour of the
artist; and it certainly entitles him to claim copyright in the product of his
labour. No more need be said to reject the contention of Mr. K. S. Ramamurthi
that the appellant firm, did not possess copyright in the picture "Mayura
Priya".

6\. The more important argument advanced by Mr. K. S. Ramamurthi was that,
granting that the artist employed by the respondents bad the picture "Mayura
Priya" before him and drew inspiration from that picture for drawing his own
picture "Bala Murugan", still, the question would be whether the respondents'
picture was a mechanical copy of the appellants' picture, or, whether it was
an independent production of the artist, employing his own skill and labour.

Before discussing this question, we would briefly notice the statutory
provision that touches upon this matter. The provisions of the Indian
Copyright Act, 1927, do not apply to this case, and we have to look to the
provisions of the Indian Copyright Act, 1914. This Act made the English law of
Copyright in Sections 1 and 2 Geo. v. Co. 46 applicable to India with certain
modifications. The definition of infringement of copyright given in Section 39
of the last mentioned Act runs thus:

"Infringing when applied to a copy of a work in which copyright exists means
any copy, including any colourable imitation made or incorporated or imported
in contravention of the provisions of this Act."

Though there are other modes of infringement of a copyright even in regard to
an artistic work, in this case we are only concerned with infringement by
making a copy or a colourable imitation of the appellants' picture "Mayura
Priya".

7\. The sole question for our consideration, therefore, is whether the
respondents' picture is a copy Or a colourable imitation of the appellants'
picture. In Hanfsataengl v. W. H. Smith and Sons, 1905-1 Ch. 519, Kekewich J.
defined the copy thus;

"A copy is that which comes so near to the original as to suggest that
original to the mind of every person seeing it."

Applying this test, the degree of resemblance between the two pictures, which
is to be judged by the eye, must be such that the person looking at the
respondents' picture must get the suggestion that it is the appellants'
picture. In this sense, the points of similarity or dissimilarity in the
picture assume some importance, and, therefore, Mr. R. Gopalaswami Aiyangar's
criticism of the approach to the case by the learned Judge may not be entirely
justified.

Mr. Gopalaswami Aiyangar for the appellants contended that the learned Judge
bad approached the case from the standpoint of a passing-off action and
employed the test whether any person looking at the respondent's picture "Bala
Murugan" would mistake it for the appellants' picture "Mayura Priya'. We agree
that this could not be the sole test, though, incidentally, the points of
resemblance and dissimilarity assume some importance in the case in finding
out whether, taken as a whole, the respondents picture produces the impression
in the mind of any observer; which amounts to a suggestion of the appellants'
picture.

8\. Mr. K. S. Ramamurthi stressed upon the points of dissimilarity "to contend
that the respondents picture was an independent production. For instance, he
pointed out to us that the colour scheme of the respondents' picture was
different from that of the appellants' picture. Next, he said that the
appellants picture was on a large scale, while the respondents picture was on
a small scale. As further instances, he pointed out that the peacock in the
respondents' picture faces left, while the same bird in the appellants'
picture faces right. Again, in the appellants' picture "Bala Subrahmanya' is
shown as having one hand round the neck of the peacock, while in the
respondents' picture his right hand is shown in the raised posture blessing
the world.

The background of the picture was also said to be different, because, in
"Mayura Priya" there is a fort like building in the background, while in "Bala
Murugan" a representation of the Palani temple appears in the background. The
rest of the background in both the pictures is identical, consisting of hills,
meadows and wild flowers. In our view, nothing turns upon the names of the
publishers in the two pictures being different or the names of the pictures
themselves being different. Coming to the figure of Bala Murugan, he is said
to be slighter in build and his looks are said to he more adolescent, whereas
the figure in "Mayura Priya" is that of a brown-eyed boy stouter in build with
chubby cheeks. The result of the comparison is thus expressed by Ramaswami J.
:

"I have therefore inspected for myself the faces on both these pictures and
cannot say that, beyond the general resemblance, the faces are of the same
young boy-God, there can be no comparison between the dreamy and rather simple
looking face of Mayura Priya with the sharp looking clever and more adolescent
attractive face of Balamuruga. In short, one appears to be a dreamer and the
other appears to be a matter-of-fact God interested in the worldly affairs of
his bakthas and blessing them. On this conclusion of mine on the general
resemblance of the two pictures, it does not seem to me that any average
person would be misled or confused into buying one picture for the other by
reason of any close imitation."

With all respect to Ramaswami J. we are unable to agree that he applied the
correct test in finding out whether the respondents' picture was a copy of the
appellants' picture. One picture can be said to be a copy of another picture
only if a substantial part of the former picture finds place in the
reproduction. In finding out what is substantial part of the appellant's
picture, the most prominent part, In our opinion, would be the features of the
deity represented as a boy. These features are most prominently displayed in
the lineaments of the face, which alone can be said to be the characteristics
constituting the personality of the boy.

Looking at the faces in both the pictures, there is no room in our minds for
any doubt that the face of "Bala Murugan" in respondents' picture is an exact
copy of the face of "Mayura Priya" in the appellants' picture. Evidence of P.
Ws. 2 to 4 goes to show that the picture "Bala Murugan" could be produced by
the process of what is called reversed copy, which consists in a photograph of
the figure in "Mayura Priya," first taken without the head, and, after
reversing the position of the trunk, to fix the head to that reversed trunk of
"Mayura Priya".

This reversed process is illustrated in M. Os. 6, 6 (a), 7 and 7 (a) and
explained by the evidence of P. W. 4, the photographer who took these copies.
Ramaswami J. has dismissed his evidence with the remark that the few
superficial similarities were only coincidences due to the picture being
produced to represent the common stock ideas. He further observed:

"This is not also a case where the main figure of "Mayura Priya" has been
reduced in size into the offending picture with slight variations in clothes
and colour. This is riot also a case where We can reduce copying from the fact
that the offending picture reproduces also the deviation and mistakes of the
picture in which the copyright is claimed."

With all respect to Ramaswami J. we are unable to agree that, if the picture
of the respondents, Bala Murugan, was produced as a result of an independent
effort by the artist, D. W. 1, there would be such striking similarity between
the two pictures, especially in the facial lineaments of the boy-God and in
the ornaments worn by him and in the features of the peacock and also in the
particular manner in which a bunch of hair is curled on the forehead of the
face.

D. W. 1, the artist said to be responsible for drawing the respondents'
picture, was questioned In cross-examination upon many points of resemblance,
a few of which we will notice below. He was shown the representation of the
common elements in all pictures of Balasubramanya, namely, the trident, the
peacock, the cobra and the adolescent figure of the God in six other pictures
exhibited in the case, and was asked to state whether these representations
were similar to these items found in the picture in Mayura Priya and whether
the representation of these common subjects in M. Os. 1 and 2, the pictures of
the appellant and the respondent, were not common.

He gave an evasive reply by stating that the difference between M. Os. 1 and 2
was that, while in Mayura Priya the Lord is shown embracing the peacock and
having the Vel in his right hand, in Bala Murugan, he is having the Vel in his
left hand. As regards the trident, the peacock and the cobra in M. O. 2, Bala
Murugan, being a reproduction of the corresponding objections in "Mayura
Priya" the witness admitted that, if the picture is reversed, that inference
would be correct. As regards the number of feathers of the peacock in both the
pictures, the witness admitted that they were identical, namely, 19.

Even as regards the number of eyes in the feathers in both the pictures, the
witness admitted that they were identical, namely, 22. Concerning the jewels
worn round the neck of Bala Murugan both in regard to their pattern and to the
number, the witness admitted that there was similarity, though he pointed out
there was some difference in the pattern. The Thilakams on the forehead in
both the pictures are identical. Though the colour of the dress worn by the
deity is different in both pictures, the pattern is the same.

We need not add any more points of resemblance, because, on the subject of
ornaments, wo find the ornaments worn by "Bala Murugan" are an exact copy of
the ornaments' worn by Mayura Priya" and every detail including the number of
heads, the arrangement of the harams and the marking of red stones in some of
them are identical. Indeed, it cannot be an accident that the same number of
feathers and the same number of eyes in the feathers of the peacock could
occur in two independent pictures.

Above all, the general impression left on our mind on looking at Bala Murugan
is that it is the figure of the Lord depicted in "Mayura Priya". It. follows
that "Bala Murugan" reproduces in substantial part the special features of the
picture of the God in "Mayura Priya", including his vahanam, the background
and the jewels he wears and She features on the face of the figure.

9\. In Corelli v. Gray, 1913-29 T, L. B. 570, Serjeant, J. pointed out the
four hypotheses, under which similarities between two works could exist: (1)
mere chance, (2) both works being taken from a common source, (3) the
plaintiff's work being taken from the defendant's and! (4) the defendant's
work being taken from the plaintiff's. It is well settled that an infringement
could only come into existence where the defendant's work was taken from the
plaintiffs work. In deciding this question, there need not be an exact
reproduction to support the inference that the defendant's work was taken from
the plaintiffs work.

Indeed, every intelligent copying must introduce a few changes; and we find
evidence of such intelligent copying in the few changes introduced in the
shape of the trident, in the posture of the arms, in the position occupied by
the face of the peacock and the cobra and in the pictorial representation of
the building in the background. These do not constitute, in our opinion, the
criteria of an independent work by the artist employed by the respondents.

10\. It is impossible to lay down any rule which could serve as a useful test
of what constitutes a copy or colourable limitation. As was observed by" the
House of Lords in Hanfstaengl v. Baines and Co., 1895 A. C. 20, "At all
events, it is much easier to arrive at what does not than to define what does
constitute the proper test" of copying Or colourable limitation of one work in
another. In" that case, the question arose whether, sketches published by the
Daily Graphic as being the work of their artists were imitations or copies of
a picture painted by the plaintiff representing courtship. Lord Herschell L.
C. in delivering his speech if that case, after referring to the similarities
and dissimilarities which led him to conclude that the defendants' sketches
were not copies of the plaintiffs printing, concluded thus:

"My Lords, it is difficult, if not impossible, to put into words all the
reasons which lead to the conclusion arrived at on such a question as that now
before your Lordships. I have tried to Indicate some of those which have led
me to my conclusion; but it depends really on the effect produced upon the
mind by a study of the picture, and of that which is alleged to be a copy of
it, or at least of its design."

In arriving at a conclusion different from that, to which Ramaswami, J. came,
we find ourselves In a similar predicament being unable to put into words all
the reasons for Our conclusion, though we are certain that the effect produced
upon our minds by a study of the two pictures is that the defendants picture
is a copy of the plaintiffs'. It follows that the appellants are entitled to
the Injunction asked for.

11\. On the question of damages; the appellants-claimed Rs. 2000 on the basis
that, prior to the introduction into the market of the defendants' picture,
they were selling about 2000 copies of their picture every year, though they
did not indicate the margin of profit on the sale of each picture. However,
the documents produced by them show that the sale fell down to 216 copies a
year in 1952-53 after the defendants had introduced their picture in 1952.

In the view he took on the main question of infringement of copyright the
learned Judge Ramaswami, J. did not consider it necessary to discuss the
evidence on the question of damages because be concluded that the plaintiffs-
appellants were not entitled to any damages. It is unnecessary to call for a
finding on this question because at the conclusion of the hearing of the
appeal both sides agreed that in case we found for the plaintiffs on the
question of infringement of copyright the damages to which the plaintiffs
would be entitled should be Rs. 500; accordingly we hold the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover damages Rs. 500 from the defendants.

It is not permissible for the plaintiffs-appellants to ask for an account of
the profits made by the respondents, in addition to damages for infringement
of copyright. In the result, the appeal is allowed the decree and judgment of
Ramaswami, J. are set aside and the appellants are given a decree, for
injunction in terms of Clause (a) of paragraph 15 of the plaint, and also a
decree for damages in the sum of Rs. 500 with interest at 6 per cent per annum
payable from this date till recovery. All other claims made in the plaint are
refused,

12\. The appellants will be entitled to get their costs incurred during the
trial before Ramaswami, J, from the respondents. But there will be no order as
to costs in the appeal.

