

Allahabad High Court

Ram Baksh Singh vs State Of U.P. And Others on 18 July, 2014

Bench: Ashwani Kumar Mishra

    
    
    
    
    
    
    HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
     
     
    
    
     
    									Reserved
     
    Case :- WRIT - A No. - 70159 of 2005
     
    
     
    Petitioner :- Ram Baksh Singh
     
    Respondent :- State Of U.P. And Others
     
    Counsel for Petitioner :- K.P. Shukla,K. Ajit
     
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.
     
    
     
    		Connected with 
     
    Case :- WRIT - A No. - 35465 of 2002
     
    
     
    Petitioner :- Ram Baksha Singh
     
    Respondent :- Zila Basic Shiksha Adhikari Mainpuri & Others
     
    Counsel for Petitioner :- G.C. Gehrana
     
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,R.K.Yadav
     
    
     
    			And
     
    Case :- WRIT - A No. - 8108 of 2003
     
    
     
    Petitioner :- Ram Baksh Singh
     
    Respondent :- D.I.O.S. & Others
     
    Counsel for Petitioner :- K.P. Shukla,K.Ajit
     
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,Ashok Khare,P.R. Maurya,V.K.Singh
     
    
     
    			And
     
    Case :- WRIT - A No. - 29790 of 2003
     
    
     
    Petitioner :- Ram Baksh Singh
     
    Respondent :- District Inspector Of Schools, Mainpuri And Others
     
    Counsel for Petitioner :- K.R. Shukla,K.Ajit,K.P.Shukla
     
    Counsel for Respondent :- C.S.C.,P.R.Maurya,R.K.Yadav,Rajesh Kumar Singh.
     
    			***
     
    Hon'ble Ashwani Kumar Mishra,J.
    

1\. All the aforesaid 4 writ petitions are connected to each other and have
been heard together, therefore, are being disposed of by this common judgment.

2\. Writ Petition No. 35465 of 2002 has been filed challenging the order dated
23.7.2002 and 29.7.2002, appointing respondent no.2 Jai Prakash as officiating
Principal of the institution and attesting his signature, respectively. Writ
Petition No.8108 of 2003 has been filed challenging the advertisement issued
for appointment to the post of Principal/ Head Master dated 31.1.2003, in
accordance with the provisions of U.P. Basic Shiksha Service Recruitment Rules
published in daily news paper 'Aaj' and also for restraining the respondents
from interfering with the petitioner's working as officiating principal. In
this writ petition, an order dated 20.2.2003 has been passed by this Court ,
restraining the management of the institution from making appointment,
pursuant to the advertisement under challenge. Thereafter Writ Petition No.
29790 of 2003 has been filed by the petitioner for quashing the order dated
28.6.2003 passed by the District Inspector of Schools, Mainpuri attesting the
signatures of Raghuraj Singh as officiating principal, pursuant to his
appointment as Principal on 19.5.2003, which had been approved by the District
Basic Shiksha Adhikari on 21.2.2003 as head master. Lastly, writ petition No.
70159 of 2005 has been filed challenging the Government Order dated
24.11.2001, whereby, the procedure to regulate functioning of Junior High
School upgraded to High School and Intermediate levels have been specified.

3\. The dispute in these petitions relates to the office of Principal/ Head
Master in the institution known as Gautum Budh Junior High School Agra road
Mainpuri, hitherto a recognised Junior High School. The institution was
upgraded for the Sessions 1994-1995 upto High School level by order of the
Secondary Education Board dated 30.5.1994 and the District Inspector of
Schools, Mainpuri allowed running of High School Classes vide his order dated
1.5.1995. The institution was further upgraded in July, 1997 upto Intermediate
level. The provisions of The Uttar Pradesh Junior High Schools, Payment of
Salaries of Teachers and other Employees) Act, 1978 ( hereinafter referred to
as the 'Salaries Act 1978') are applicable upon the institution. The
petitioner in the institution had been appointed as Assistant Teacher in the
year 1980, and at that stage, he possessed the qualification of Intermediate
with B.T.C. The petitioner claims that with the prior permission of the
concerned authorities, he pursued and passed B.A. and M.A. Examinations from
University and also completed B. Ed.

4\. One Sri Sardar Singh, who had qualification of M.A. B.Ed. was functioning
as principal in the institution till he attained the age of superannuation on
30.6.2002.Sri Jai Prakash Shastri, B.A.BTC, respondent no.4 in Writ Petition
No. 35465 of 2002 was given the charge of officiating principal of the
institution, pursuant to his appointment on 23.7.2002 and his signatures were
also attested on 29.7.2002. Petitioner claimed that he being senior most
teacher having qualification of M.A. B.Ed. instead, was entitled to officiate
as Principal. The petitioner challenged the appointment of Sri Jai Prakash
Shastri on the ground that he lacked the required qualification for Principal
of an Intermediate College i.e. M.A. B.Ed. Representations were submitted by
the petitioner to the concerned educational authorities. It appears that an
order was passed by the District Inspector of Schools, Mainpuri on 5.1.2002,
whereby the management was directed to appoint the petitioner as officiating
principal in place of Jai Prakash Shastri and his signatures were also
directed to be attested. This order of the District Inspector of Schools was
not complied with and as such a reminder was sent to the Manager of the
institution by the then District Inspector of Schools, Mainpuri on 17.10.2002.
Since the reminder also did not work, as such, yet another communication was
sent on 27.11.2002 by District Inspector of Schools, requiring the action to
be taken for appointing the petitioner as officiating principal, failing which
proceedings were to be drawn against the management. The District Inspector of
Schools by registered letter dated 9.12.2002 reiterated the contents of
previous letters and expressed his dis-pleasure at the attitude of the manager
in not appointing the petitioner. In this series, an order dated 17.1.2003 was
passed and the signatures of the petitioner as officiating principal were
attested on 17.1.2003 by the District Inspector of Schools. The District
Inspector of Schools issued letter dated 8.2.2003, addressed to Sri Jai
Prakash Shastri to forthwith deliver charge of the office of officiating
principal of the institution to the petitioner.

5\. The case of the petitioner is that the management of the institution, in
order to circumvent the orders of District Inspector of Schools directing
handing over of charge of the office of officiating Principal to the Senior
most eligible teacher, adopted a novel method of advertising the post of Head
Master in accordance with the provisions of U.P. Basic Education Service
Recruitment Rules, inviting applications till 12.2.2003 and for holding of
interview on 16.2.2003, even though the post of Head master had seized to
exist after the up-gradation of the institution and recruitment could not be
made as per the Provisions of the U.P. Basic Education Service Recruitment
Rules.

6\. Aggrieved against this action, petitioner filed Writ Petition No. 8108 of
2003, wherein, following orders were passed on 20.2.2003.

    
    
    		" In view of the averments made in para Nos. 8,9 & 10, no 			appointment will be made  pursuant to 	the advertisement 			issued by the Manager of the college published in the news 			paper ' Aaj' on 31.1.2003 issued to the respondent no. 3.
     
    		List after return of the notice.
     
    							Sd/ S. Harkauli, J
     
    							20.2.2003"
     
    

7\. It is stated that pursuant to the advertisement dated 31.1.2003, and
before passing of the interim order dated 20.2.2003, the management appointed
Sri Raghuraj Singh, Assistant Teacher who was working in the same institution
and was otherwise junior to petitioner, on 16.2.2003, and his appointment was
also approved by the District Basic Education Officer on 21.2.2003. The
petitioner, consequently, filed another writ petition challenging the
appointment and financial approval granted to Sri Raghuraj Singh. It was
further prayed that the petitioner being the senior most eligible teacher be
allowed to officiate till the regularly selected Principal is made available
by the Commission.

8\. I have heard Sri K. Ajit, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner,
Sri Ashok Khare, learned Sr. Advocate, assisted by Sri Siddharth Khare for the
respondent no. 5 and learned Standing Counsel appearing for the State-
Respondents.

9\. Learned counsel for the petitioner Sri K. Ajit relied upon the Division
Bench judgment of this Court in Special Appeal No. 25 of 2006, connected with
other matters, of Smt. Manju Awasthi and others Vs. State of U.P. and others,
2013 (3) Vol. ADJ,64. It is submitted that law has been settled that once a
Junior High School is upgraded to High School/ Intermediate level, the
upgraded institution is covered within the definition of 'institution' under
the provisions of Section 2 (b) of the U.P. Intermediate Education Act, 1921 (
hereinafter referred to as the 'Act of 1921') thereafter, the provisions of
the Act of 1921 as well as U.P. Secondary Education Services Selection Board
Act, 1982 ( hereinafter referred to as the ' Selection Board Act 1982') would
get attracted. Thus, it is argued the appointment of Raghuraj Singh as head
master in the year 2003 under the provisions of the The Uttar Pradesh
Recognised Basic Schools (Junior High Schools) (Recruitment and Conditions of
Service of Teachers) Rules, 1978 was wholly without is liable to be set aside.

10\. This argument has been opposed by Sri Ashok Khare, learned Senior
Advocate on the ground that mere up gradation of the institution to High
School or Intermediate level would not amount to automatic creation of post of
Principal in the up-graded institution and the head of the institution would
continu to be governed by the 1978 Rules. He has relied upon the Full Bench
judgment of this Court in the case of Gopal Dubey Vs. District Inspector of
Schools, Maharajganj and another ( 1999) 2 AWC, 962 to submit that creation of
post is not automatic. The submission of Sri Khare is that in the absence of
creation of post of Principal, in the upgraded institution, the appointment of
headmaster under 1978 rules was the only alternative course available to the
management in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, and as such,
interference of this Court is not required.

11\. Admittedly, the institution had been upgraded as High School in 1995 and
Intermediate in 1997 under the provisions of the Act of 1921 and, therefore,
the provisions of Act of 1921 got attracted. Appointment to the post of
Principal could thus be made under the provisions of the Act of 1921 and the
Commission Act of 1982.

12\. The office of the head of the institution fell vacant on 30.6.2002. At
that stage, the institution had already been upgraded to Intermediate level.
The provisions of the Act of 1921 and the Commission Act, 1982 were clearly
applicable as such, the office of the head of the institution could not be
filled by resorting to the procedure contemplated for appointments of head
master to a Junior High School. The appointment of Raghuraj Singh as head
master, pursuant to advertisement dated 31.1.2003 was, therefore, wholly
without jurisdiction and could not have been approved. The appointment of Sri
Raghuraj Singh to the non existent post of head master, as well as its
subsequent approval by the Basic Shiksha Adhikari suffers from inherent lack
of jurisdiction and are, therefore, liable to be set aside.

13\. From the perusal of the record of the Writ Petition No. 8108 of 2003 and
Writ Petition No.29790 of 2003, it is apparent that the District Inspector of
Schools had rightly found the institution to be governed by the provisions of
the Act of 1921 and consequently had called upon the committee of management
to permit the petitioner to function as officiating principal of the
institution in view of the fact that he was senior most teacher, possessing
the required qualification for the post of Principal of the institution. The
series of letters sent by the District Inspector of Schools, Mainpuri, already
referred to above, demonstrates that the committee of management was made
aware of the requirement of allowing the post of head of the institution to be
filled with officiating appointment of the petitioner. There is force in the
contention of Sri K. Ajit that the committee of management deliberately
refused to comply with the direction of District Inspector of Schools and in
order to circumvent it invented a unique design of advertising the post of
Head master and thereafter filled it up with the appointment of Sri Raghuraj
Singh, who was otherwise junior to the petitioner. The attestation of
signature of Sri Raghuraj Singh by DIOS relying upon the approval on the post
of head master by Basic Shiksha Adhikari , was clearly contrary to law and is
equally liable to be set aside. The petitioner being the senior most teacher
in the institution, having requisite qualification for the post of Principal,
is entitled to continue as officiating principal of the institution.

14\. The argument of Sri Khare about the non creation of the post of Principal
in the upgraded institution, and therefore, appointment of head master cannot
be accepted. The Division Bench in Smt. Manju Awasthi ( Supra) dealt with the
issue of creation of post of Principal in the upgraded institution and came to
the conclusion that the upgradation of the institution contemplates creation
of skeleton post, required to man the institution. Paras 59, 62 and 63 of Smt.
Manju Awasthi(Supra) is reproduced:-

"59. Thus, the regulations do not obviate the requirement of teachers to man
the institution. As held above, the appointment of part time teachers under
section 7AA is contemplated only after recognition is granted under section
7A. Thus, those part time teachers are not contemplated to be in existence at
the time the school seeks recognition. We have already come to the conclusion
that the first recognition of an institution as High School under the 1921 Act
cannot be granted under section 7A and recognition under section 7A is a
recognition of an existing recognised institution under the 1921 Act. Thus,
where a recognition is granted under section 7A as per the conditions
mentioned in Section 7A, the institution is already in existence as a
recognised institution. The existing institution has to be envisaged along
with skeleton teachers to man the high school. Thus, the requirement of
creation of post when an institution is recognised for the first time is very
much there. It is another thing that Government may not take any financial
responsibility for payment of salary to such teachers when an institution is
recognised for the first time and it is always open to the Government to grant
recognition vitta Vihin or not to take the institution on grant-in-aid but
whether an institution is taken on aid or not taken on aid has nothing to do
with the standard with which an educational institution is to maintain or
inspire. We are thus, of the clear view that when an institution is recognised
for the first time, the institution contemplates creation of skeleton of post
to man the institution and when a Junior High School is recognised as High
School under the 1921 act for the first time, the post of Principal Head
Master has to be there whether the institution receives an aid or does not
receive an aid, which factor is immaterial.

62\. After the enforcement of U.P. Act No. 5 of 1982 also it was contemplated
in U.P. Secondary Education Services Commission (Removal of Difficulties)
Order 1981 clause 4 (1) (C) that in the case a Junior High School is raised to
the level of a High School, the post of Principal be filled by the Head Master
of such Junior High School by adhoc appointment by promotion. Thus, 1982 Act
also contemplated filling up of the post of Head Master of a High School by
promotion of Head Master of Junior High School on adhoc basis. However, scheme
of 1982 Act contemplated the regular appointment on the post of head of the
institution thereafter. Thus, the post of head of institution after
recognition under section 1921 Act has to be filled up and no situation can be
contemplated where post has to remain vacant or there has to be no post of
head of institution in the High School. We have already held that recognition
under section 7A cannot be granted for the first time to an institution as a
High School and the said recognition under section 7A has to be for an
institution which is already recognised under the 1921 Act within the meaning
of section 2(b) of 1921 Act. Thus, when a request is prayed for and granted
under section 7A there is an already recognised institution contemplating a
head of institution since no appointment on the post of head of institution is
contemplated under section 7AA. There has to be full time Head Master of a
High School and above interpretation is in accordance with the statutory
scheme as delineated by 1921 Act, Regulations framed thereunder and 1982 Act.

63\. Thus, we are of the view that there has to be a Head Master of the High
School when it is recognised for the first time and requiring a Head Master to
be appointed clearly contemplated a post of Head Master and the said post is
to be created by educational authorities irrespective of the fact whether
State is giving any aid or not. State can very well recognise an institution
as High School (vitta vihin) but that itself does not absolve the requirement
of having of a post of head of institution or creating the said post. When a
post is contemplated in an institution either of Head Master or teacher which
is required to be granted on Manak fixed by the Government for the purpose of
recognising an institution for the first time, management cannot be absolved
from its responsibility to make appointment of qualified teachers to man the
minimum post of teachers required for establishing an institution or for
recognising an institution in the High School and it cannot be absolved from
its responsibility to make the payment of their salary as has already been
laid down in various Government Orders from time to time".

15\. The jurisdiction of Basic Shiksha Adhikari has been held to be confined
to payment of salary alone, as the Salaries Act, 1978 continues to operate.
However, he has no jurisdiction in the matter relating to appointment of
Principal/ head of the institution. The Division Bench in para-80 of Smt.
Manju Awasthi, proceeded to endorse the view of the Hon'ble Single Judge that
consequent upon upgradation of the institution to High School level, the
provisions of 1921 Act and U.P. Act No. 5 of 1982 are applicable and the
selection made by the Basic Shiksha Adhikari was quashed. Para-80 of the
judgment in Smt. Manju Awasthi is reproduced:-

"80. The judgment of Hon'ble Single Judge which is impugned in the leading
appeal being Special appeal No. 25 of 2006 relying on the Full Bench in State
of U.P. Vs. District Judge (Supra) and Division Bench judgment in Shiksha
Prasar Samiti Vs. State of U.P. and others as well as after considering the
relevant provisions of U.P. Intermediate Education Act, 1921, Sections 2(b)
2(d) and 7A as well as provisions of 1982 Act, held that after a Junior High
School is upgraded as High School, the provisions of U.P. Intermediate
Education 1921 and U.P. Act No. 5 of 1982 are applicable and selection made by
the Basic Shiksha Adhikari of appellant Manju Awasthi was quashed. We are of
the view that judgment of Hon'ble Single Judge cannot be faulted and we do not
find any good ground in the appeal to interfere with the impugned judgment".

16\. In the peculiar facts of the present case, deliberate intent on part of
the management to deny handing over charge of officiating principal to the
petitioner who was senior most teacher possessing required qualification for
appointment to the post is apparent on the face of record. Series of letters
sent by District Inspector of Schools, in this regard, were ignored. A novel
method to circumvent the directions of the District Inspector of Schools was
invented. Even despite passing of the order dated 20.2.2003 by this Court, the
management allowed Sri Raghuraj Singh to continue working as head of the
institution. The petitioner, for no fault of his, had been denied the right to
officiate as head of the institution. In such circumstances, petitioner is
clearly entitled to the relief prayed for and consequently, a direction is
issued to the authorities concerned to forthwith allow the petitioner to join
as officiating principal of the institution with all consequential benefits
and continue till a regularly selected candidate on the post of Principal is
made available by the Commission. The petitioner is also entitled to be
compensated for the harassment meeted out to him by the committee of
management.

17\. Consequently, Writ Petition No. 8108 of 2003 and Writ Petition No. 29790
of 2003 are allowed. The advertisement dated 31.1.2003 as well as all
consequential action undertaken including appointment of Sri Raghuraj Singh as
head master/ officiating principal are quashed. The order dated 28.6.2003
passed by the District Inspector of Schools, Mainpuri, attesting the signature
of Sri Raghuraj Singh as officiating Principal is also quashed. A writ of
mandamus is issued commanding the respondents to forthwith allow the
petitioner to assume responsibility of officiating principal of the
institution alongwith all consequential benefits till regular selection by the
Commission. The petitioner is also entitled for payment of costs assessed as
Rs.25,000/- from the respondent committee of management for harassing the
petitioner. Writ Petitions No. 35465 of 2002 and 71059 of 2005 do not require
passing of any further orders and are also disposed off accordingly.

Order Date :- 18th July, 2014 n.u.

