

Delhi High Court

Ashok Kumar Aggarwal And Ors. vs Rajinder Kumar Aggarwal & Ors. on 19 August,
2008

Author: Ajit Prakash Shah

    
    
    *               HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    +                     LPA No.1197/2007
    
    
    Ashok Kumar Aggarwal and ors.            ..Appellants
                             Through: Mr.Amarjit Singh,
                             Mr.Gurpreet Singh and Ms.Sheetal
                             Deng, Advocates
                             Versus
    Rajinder Kumar Aggarwal & Ors.           ...Respondents
                             Through: Mr.Manav Kumar, Advocate
    
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE DR. JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR
    
    1.Whether reporters of the local newspapers be allowed
      to see the judgment? No
    2.To be referred to the Reporter or not ? YES
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported in the Digest ? YES
    
                                  ORDER
    

% 19.8.2008 This is an appeal from the judgment and order dated 9th July, 2007
passed by Badar Durrez Ahmed, J in a writ petition under Articles 226 and 227
of the Constitution of India. By that judgment the order of the Intellectual
Property Appellate Board dated 9th September, 2004 approving the order of the
Assistant Registrar dated 2nd September, 1994 rejecting the opposition filed
by the respondent No.1 herein to the registration of the trade mark AGGARWAL
and AGGARWAL SWEET CORNER under application numbers 453308B and 453309 is set
aside and the matter is remanded to the Intellectual Property Appellate Board
for the purposes of considering the question as to whether the word AGGARWAL
which, admittedly is a surname, has acquired sufficient distinctiveness in
relation to appellants' No.2's goods to be registrable under the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (for brevity sake referred to as "the Act").

LPA 1197/2007 Page 1 of 10

2\. The facts giving rise to this appeal may be shortly stated.

The appellants number 1 and 2 were trading in the name and style of Aggarwal
Sweet Corner to carry on business of sweets and namkeens at 3/33, Double
Storey, Tilak Nagar, New Delhi. Later on this business was taken over by
appellant No.3 company. The appellants made the aforesaid two applications on
30th April, 1986 for registration of the trade marks "Aggarwal" and "Aggarwal
Sweet Corner" in respect of sweets and namkeens. In both the applications, the
appellants claim user since 1st June, 1984. On 1st April, 1990, the
applications were advertised in the Trade Mark Journal. On 18th May, 1990, the
respondent N.1 filed his opposition being DEL-6766 under Section 21 of the Act
raising objections under Sections 9,11 and 18 of the Act. The respondent No.1
is the proprietor of Aggarwal Sweets India, a shop selling sweets and namkeens
at 24, West Patel Nagar, New Delhi. On 17th July, 1991, the appellants filed a
counter claim to the opposition filed by the respondent No.1. On 16th March,
1992, the respondent No.1 filed his evidence under Rule 53 in the shape of
affidavits of six persons. On 10th August, 1994, the matter was heard by the
Assistant Registrar and by his order dated 6th September, 1994, the Assistant
Registrar rejected the respondent No. 1's opposition and accepted the
appellants' applications. The effect of the order dated 6th September, 1994
was that the appellants' right to have the trade marks AGGARWAL and AGGARWAL
SWEET CORNER registered in their favour was upheld. We may add that the latter
trade mark contained a disclaimer to the effect that it shall give no right to
the exclusive use of the words "SWEET CORNER".

LPA 1197/2007 Page 2 of 10

3\. Being aggrieved, the respondent No.1 filed an appeal on 13th September,
1994 under Section 109(2) of the Act before this Court. The said appeal was
numbered as CM(M) 419/1994. On 23rd April, 1996, in view of Section 100 of the
Trade Marks Act, 1999 (which had been enacted in the meanwhile) this Court
transferred the appeal to the Intellectual Property Appellate Board. The
appeal was re-numbered as TA 95/2003/TM/DEL. Three other appeals connected
with the question of registration of the trademarks AGGARWAL and AGGARWAL
SWEET CORNER in favour of the appellants were also pending before this Court.
They were also transferred and they were numbered as TA Nos.94, 97 & 100/2003.
By virtue of the impugned order dated 9th September, 2004, the Intellectual
Property Appellate Board dismissed all the appeals and confirmed the orders
passed by the Deputy Registrar / Assistant Registrar, as the case may be.

4\. The respondent No.1 being aggrieved approached this Court by filing a writ
petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, which came
to be allowed by the learned single Judge by order under appeal. The learned
single Judge held that the word AGGARWAL cannot be registered as the trade
mark unless distinctiveness is established on the part of the appellants. The
learned Judge referred to the provisions of Section 9 of the Act to hold that
without distinctiveness, the word AGGARWAL, because it was both a surname and
also the name of a sect/caste, could not be registered. The learned single
Judge noted that in the impugned order of the Intellectual Property Appellate
Board there is no discussion with regard to the evidence of distinctiveness of
the surname AGGARWAL in relation LPA 1197/2007 Page 3 of 10 to the appellants'
goods. In fact the Appellate Board appears to have taken the view that once
user was established, it was sufficient for the purpose of the case.
Consequently, the order of the Appellate Board was set aside and the matter
was remanded to the Appellate Board for the purpose of considering the
question as to whether the word AGGARWAL has acquired sufficient
distinctiveness to be registrable under the Act.

5\. The short question which falls for consideration in this appeal is whether
the word AGGARWAL can be registered as a trade mark? Section 9 of the Act,
which is material for the purposes of this appeal reads as follows:

> "9. Requisites for registration in Parts A and B of the register.- (1) A
> trade mark shall not be registered in Part A of the register unless it
> contains or consists of at least one of the following essential particulars,
> namely:-

> (a) the name of a company, individual or firm represented in a special or
> particular manner;

> (b) the signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in
> his business;

> (c) one or more invented words;

> (d) one or more words having no direct reference to the character or quality
> of the goods and not being, according to its ordinary signification, a
> geographical name or a surname or a personal name or any common abbreviation
> thereof or the name of a sect, caste or tribe in India;

> (e) any other distinctive mark.

> (2) A name, signature or word, other than such as fall within the
> descriptions in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of sub-section (1) shall not
> be registrable in Part A of the register except upon evidence of its
> distinctiveness.

> (3) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "distinctive" in relation
> to the goods in respect of which a trade mark is proposed to be registered,
> LPA 1197/2007 Page 4 of 10 means adapted to distinguish goods with which the
> proprietor of the trade mark is or may be connected in the course of trade
> from goods in the case of which no such connection subsists either generally
> or, where the trade mark is proposed to be registered subject to
> limitations, in relation to sue within the extent of the registration.

> (4) A trade mark shall not be registered in Part B of the register unless
> the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which it is proposed
> to be registered is distinctive, or is not distinctive but is capable of
> distinguishing goods with which the proprietor of a trade mark is or may be
> connected in the course of trade from goods in the case of which no such
> connection subsists, either generally or, where the trade mark is proposed
> to be registered subject to limitations, in relation to use within the
> extent of the registration.

> (5) In determining whether a trade mark is distinctive or is capable of
> distinguishing as aforesaid, the tribunal may have regard to the extent to
> which-

> (a) a trade mark is inherently distinctive or is inherently capable of
> distinguishing as aforesaid; and

> (b) by reason of the use of the trade mark or of any other circumstances,
> the trade mark is in fact so adapted to distinguish or is in fact capable of
> distinguishing as aforesaid.

> (6) Subject to the other provisions of this section, a trade mark in respect
> of any goods-

> (a) registered in Part A of the register may be registered in Part B of the
> register; and

> (b) registered in Part B of the register may be registered in Part A of the
> register; in the name of the same proprietor of the same trade mark or any
> part or parts thereof."

6\. Mr.Amarjit Singh, learned counsel appearing for the appellants,
strenuously contended that under Section 9(1)(d) of the Act, a surname or a
personal name or any common abbreviation thereof or the name of the sect,
caste or tribe qualifies for registration if the same has no direct reference
to the LPA 1197/2007 Page 5 of 10 character or quality of the goods and not
being according to its ordinary signification, a geographical name or a
surname. The surname AGGARWAL has no direct reference to the character or
quality of sweets or namkeens nor in its ordinary signification refer to the
said trade. According to him, evidence of distinctiveness is required only for
such marks which do not fall under Clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 9
and marks covered by the said provision are registrable under the law without
there being any requirement of establishing distinctiveness by evidence of
use. Learned counsel urged that distinctiveness of mark is acquired by use and
as such the user was only relevant consideration to determine the
registrablity of the mark and not distinctiveness as provided under Section
9(2) of the Act.

7\. On the other hand, Mr.Manav Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the first
respondent, submitted that Section 9(1)(d) of the Act clearly lays down that
surname, personal name or name of caste / sect are to be considered
registrable only upon evidence of distinctiveness. The Intellectual Property
Appellate Board failed to address the issue of distinctiveness and, therefore,
the learned single Judge has rightly remanded the matter back to the Appellate
Board to decide as to whether the word AGGARWAL has acquired sufficient
distinctiveness in relation to the appellants' goods.

8\. A trade mark, before it can be considered for registration, must first
satisfy the requirement of the Section 9 of the Act. For registration in part
A of the register the necessary qualifications are contained in sub-sections
(1) to (3) and (5). For part B LPA 1197/2007 Page 6 of 10 registration the
mark should qualify under sub-sections (4) and (5). The question is whether
the word AGGARWAL, which is admittedly a surname and name of a sect / caste
can be registered under Section 9(1)(d) or Section 9(2) of the Act. Section
9(1)(d) says that a trade mark shall not be registered in part A of the
register unless it contains or consists of "one or more words having no direct
reference to the character or quality of the goods and not being, according to
its ordinary signification, a geographical name or a surname or a personal
name or any common abbreviation thereof or the name of a sect, caste or tribe
in India." The words of import are "a surname or the name of a sect, caste in
India" and "according to its ordinary signification". There is no dispute that
AGGARWAL is a surname and also name of a caste / sect in India according to
its ordinary signification within the meaning of Section 9(1)(d) of the Act.
Thus, the word AGGARWAL being a surname and a name of a caste / sect is not
registrable under Section 9(1)(d) of the Act.

9\. But such a surname or a name of a caste / sect is not an absolute
disqualification for the purpose of its registration in Part A of the register
because by reason of Section 9(2) of the Act it is expressly provided, inter
alia, other than such as fall within the descriptions in Clauses (a), (b), (c)
and (d) of Sub-section (1) shall be registrable in Part A of the register upon
evidence of its distinctiveness. Therefore, a surname or name of a caste or
sect is registrable "on the evidence of distinctiveness". The whole point in
this appeal, therefore, would be whether there is evidence of distinctiveness.
There is a definition in Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Act which says
that for the purposes of the LPA 1197/2007 Page 7 of 10 statute the expression
"distinctive in relation to the goods in respect of which a trade mark is
proposed to be registered," means adapted to distinguish goods with which the
proprietor of the trade mark is or may be connected in the course of trade
from goods in the case of which no such connection subsists either generally
or where the trade mark is proposed to be registered subject to limitations,
in relation to use within the extent of its registration. Subsection (4) of
Section 9 of the Act deals with Part B of the register and provides inter
alia, that a trade mark shall not be registered in Part B unless the trade
mark is distinctive, or is not distinctive but is capable of distinguishing
goods. Part B therefore of the register may include a mark which is not
distinctive but capable of distinguishing. By sub-section (6) of Section 9 of
the Act the statute gives certain guidelines for determining whether a trade
mark is distinctive or is capable of distinguishing and it provides inter alia
that in making such a determination the Tribunal may have regard to the extent
to which (a) a trade mark is inherently distinctive or is inherently capable
of distinguishing as aforesaid, and (b) by reason of the use of a trade mark
or of any other circumstances, the trade mark is in fact so adapted to
distinguish or is in fact capable of distinguishing. This brief analysis of
the relevant provisions of Section 9 of the Act shows that a surname can be
registered in Part 'A' only on the evidence of distinctiveness. The position
in law therefore may be stated to be that there is a prima facie bar to the
registration in Part 'A' of a surname and/or name of caste / sect simpliciter
but this bar can be overcome on the evidence of distinctiveness by the express
provision of Section 9(2) of the LPA 1197/2007 Page 8 of 10 statute.

10\. Every trader has a right to trade in his own name and ought not to be
hampered in its use. One has, therefore, to consider the interests of other
persons having the same surname who might at any time carry on trade in the
goods. A surname, therefore, is considered prima facie not adapted to
distinguish for the purpose of registration in part A. For the same reason, a
personal name is considered not registrable in part A. A surname, therefore,
is considered not registrable in part A without evidence of distinctiveness.
Common abbreviation of surname, or personal name is to be considered on the
same footing as a surname or a personal name. (See P. Narayanan's Law of Trade
Marks and Passing Off (6th edition), para 8.20).

11\. In the instant case, the Appellate Board has not considered the issue of
distinctiveness of the surname AGGARWAL in relation to the appellants case. It
appears that the Appellate Board was only concerned with the issue of user and
once that was established, according to it, it was sufficient for the purpose
of the case. The following observation in the impugned order would indicate
this:

> "We believe that so much of the documentary evidence for this period is
> enough to establish that there was a user as from the date claimed in the
> application and it was a consistent user.?

12\. In fact the Appellate Board has erroneously held that sine qua non for
entitlement under section 9 is that one who contests the mark should be prior
user in time and even should have been consistently using the mark from the
date so claimed. It is not at all a condition precedent for moving an
application opposing a LPA 1197/2007 Page 9 of 10 registration that the
applicant must be a prior user or even an user at all. The Appellate Board has
not even touched the subject of distinctiveness and has decided the matter
solely on the basis of establishing the user of the appellants from the date
it claimed in its application for registration.

13\. In the result, we find that the appeal is devoid of any substance and the
same is hereby dismissed.

CHIEF JUSTICE S.MURALIDHAR JUDGE 19th August, 2008 "nm"

LPA 1197/2007 Page 10 of 10

