

Andhra High Court

G.P.V.A. Subrahmanyam vs The State Of Andhra Pradesh on 10 March, 1964

Equivalent citations: 1967 20 STC 285 AP

Author: P C Reddy

Bench: P C Reddy, Kumarayya

JUDGMENT P. Chandra Reddy, C.J.

1\. The only question that arises in this revision case is whether cocoanut is
a horticultural produce or not, for purposes of Rule 5(2)(f) of the Hyderabad
General Sales Tax Rules.

2\. It is argued by Shri Rama Rao that cocoanuts in this case do not fall
within the definition of horticultural produce for the reason that they are
grown extensively and secondly that cocoanut cultivation also requires tilling
and watering as in the case of agricultural operations.

3\. We do not think there is any substance in this argument. Whether a
particular produce is a horticultural produce or not does not depend upon the
extent of its cultivation. If this argument is to be accepted, if a person has
raised only ten cocoanut trees, the produce of these trees will be regarded as
horticultural produce ; but if the same person raised thousands of trees it
ceases to be horticultural and becomes agricultural produce. We do not think
that the character of the produce is altered by the extent of its cultivation.
There is, therefore, no force in this contention.

4\. The other contention is equally untenable. By the mere circumstance that
some tilling has to be done for purposes of raising the crop or that watering
has to be done, it does not cease to be horticulture. Horticulture means the
art of gardening. Admittedly, cocoanuts are raised in gardens. Gardening
requires some amount of tilling. Needless to say that every plant, whether
agricultural or horticultural, needs water. This does not make" any difference
for the consideration of the question whether a particular cultivation comes
within the category of horticulture or agriculture. In our opinion, cocoanuts
answer the definition of horticultural produce.

5\. In Deputy Commissioner of Agricultural Income- tax and Sales Tax v. A. P.
Raman [1960] 11 S.T.C. 263, the High Court of Kerala proceeded on the
assumption that cocoanuts are horticultural produce. It is on that footing the
further question was considered whether its fibre constituted horticultural
produce or not.

6\. The Madras High Court in The State of Madras v. R. Saravana Pillai [1956]
7 S.T.C. 541, ruled that arecanut was horticultural produce. The same
principle is contained in the case of The State of Madras, Re [1956] 7 S.T.C.
546. If arecanut could fall within the definition of horticultural produce, we
fail to see why cocoanut does not answer that description.

7\. We, therefore, hold that the tax was rightly levied at the sale point.

8\. In the circumstances, the tax revision case is dismissed with costs.
Advocate's fee Rs. 100.

