

Bombay High Court

Farbewerke Hoechst ... vs Unichem Laboratories And Ors. on 11 July, 1968

Equivalent citations: AIR 1969 Bom 255, (1974) 76 BOMLR 130

Bench: Vimadalal

JUDGMENT

1\. This is a suit for infringement of patent under Section 29 of the Indian
patents and Designs Act, 1911, filed by the plaintiffs who are the legal
owners and proprietors of Indian Patent No. 58716 in respect of the
manufacture of new sulphonyl-ureas, salts of those compounds and of anti-
diabetic preparation containing such compounds. The application for the said
patent was made by the plaintiffs on 23rd October 1956 and was accepted on 7th
November 1957, but the same took effect from the 8th of May 1956 by reason of
the provisions of Section 78A of the Patents and Designs Act. One of the
chemical compounds comprised in the said patent is Tolbutamide, and since 1957
the plaintiffs have been marketing the same as an anti-diabetic drug in India
and all over the world under the trade mark "Rastinon". The suit was
originally filed only against the present first defendants who, according to
the Plaintiffs, have since May 1961 wrongfully and with full knowledge of the
plaintiffs' said patent No. 58716 infringed the said patent by manufacturing,
preparing and selling Uni-Tolbid tablets or Tolbutamide manufactured in
accordance with and by the use of the invention disclosed in the plaintiffs'
said patent 'and claimed in Claims 1 and 11" thereof. The first defendants
admit having manufactured or sold the said tablets under the name Uni-Tolbid
or Tolbutamide but claim that the said tablets had been manufactured by the
application of the processes mentioned in another patent, being patent No.
64323 held by the Haffkine Institute of Bombay which is owned by the present
second defendant State, under a licence granted to them by the second
defendants for the manufacture and sale thereof. The second defendants have,
by an order dated 6th February 1967, been made party defendants to this suit
on their own application at their own costs throughout, but it may be
mentioned that no relief has been claimed against them in the present suit by
way of amendment of the plaint after their joinder. It appears that the
business of the first defendants has, since the filing of the present suit,
been acquired and taken over as a going concern by the third defendants, being
a company which was registered under Companies Act on the 22nd of August 1962,
and the third defendants have been manufacturing and selling Uni-Tolbid
tablets or Tolbutamide ever since then as successor to the first defendants.
The third defendants were, therefore, joined as party defendants to this suit
by an order dated the 9th January 1968, and by the amendments effected
pursuant to the said order, the plaintiffs have claimed against the third
defendants also the same substantive reliefs which they had claimed originally
filed. The reliefs claimed by the plaintiffs said patent No. 58716, an order
for payment of a sum of Rs. 7,000/- as and by way of damages, or in the
alternative, an order for an account of the profits made by defendants Nos. 1
and 3 from the sale of the infringing goods and for payment of the same to the
plaintiffs, and for an order to deliver up to the plaintiffs for destruction
of all articles in the possession o defendants Nos. 1 and 3 made in
infringement of the plaintiffs' said patent.

2\. On merits, the defence of the first defendants as disclosed by their
written statement falls into two parts. First, that there is no infringement
of the plaintiffs' said patent as they have not manufactured and prepared Uni-
Tolbid tablets in accordance with or by the use of the invention disclosed in
the plaintiffs' said patent, but have manufactured the compound Tolbutamide in
accordance with a different process described in the second defendants' patent
No. 64323 for the preparation of substituted benzonesulphonyl ureas from the
corresponding substituted benzonesulphonylthioureas by desulphurisation with
hydrogen peroxide; secondly that the plaintiff's said patent No. 58716 is
invalid and is liable to be revoke on the grounds of insufficiency of
description, lack of novelty, want of inventive step and lack of utility
grounds which the plaintiffs would, under Section 29 (2) read with Section 26
of the Patents and Designs Act, be entitled to urge by way of defence to a
suit for infringement like the present one. In addition to these two defences
on the merits, the first defendants have pleaded the defences of acquiescence,
estoppel, and delay disentitling the plaintiffs to any relief by reason of the
failure of the plaintiffs to take action till 4th April 1962 when the present
suit was filed. The third defendants who as I have already stated earlier are
successors to the business of the first defendants, have by their Written
Statement. The second defendants have filed a separate and detailed Written
Statement in answer to the plaintiffs' suit, but they have also, in substance,
adopted the same defences as are to be found in the written Statement of the
first defendants.

3\. On these pleadings, the following issues were framed by me:-

1\. Whether the manufacture of Uni-Tolbid tablets or Tolbutamide by defendants
Nos. 1 ad 3 us carried out by using the processes mentioned in the plaintiffs'
patent No. 58716 as a alleged in paragraph 6 of the plaint.

2\. Whether the first and third defendants have been infringing and are
infringing the plaintiffs' said patent No. 58716 as alleged I Para 8 of the
plaint.

3\. Whether the plaintiffs' said patent No. 58716 is invalid and is liable to
bed revoked on the grounds stated in paragraph 5 and 6 of the Written
Statement and 8 of the Written Statement of the second defendant.

4\. Whether there has been acquiescence on the part of the plaintiffs in
respect of the manufacture of Uni-Tolbid tablets and Tolbutamide by defendants
Nos. 1 and 3 as alleged in paragraph 7 of the Written Statement of Defendant
No. 1. and paragraph 9 of the Written Statement of defendant No. 2.

5\. Whether the plaintiffs are precluded and/or estopped from complaining of
the infringement, if any, of the said patent No. 58716 as alleged in paragraph
7 of the Written Statement of defendant No. 1 and paragraph 9 of the Written
Statement f defendant No. 2.

6\. Whether the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief for injunction and
damages or an account of profits in the facts and circumstances and having
regard to the plaintiffs conduct set out in paragraph 7 of the Written
Statement of defendant No. 1.

7\. To What relief, if any, are the plaintiffs entitled?

4\. After evidence on behalf of the plaintiffs had been led and the plaintiffs
case closed by Mr. Blanco White, while opening the case of the defendants, Mr.
Mistree stated that he proposed to examine 3 or 4 witnesses. After the
examination of his first witness Dr. Krishnamurthi Ganpathi was concluded, Mr.
Mistree, however, suddenly decided upon a change of strategy and closed his
client's case, probably because he realized that his trump card had not
yielded a trick. At the very commencement of his address, Mr. Mistree then
stated that he accepted the evidence of Dr. Aumuller and Dr. Bander, and did
not quarrel with the evidence of Dr. Lingnau. Mr. Mistree conceded that the
evidence of Dr. Krishnamurthi Ganpathi, who has examined as an expert by him
on behalf of the defendants, did not carry his client's case any further. When
Mr. Mistree resumed his address on the next day, however, he did try to
defend, to some extent, the evidence led by Dr. Krishnamurthi Ganpathi. The
evidence of Dr. Krishnamurthi Ganpathi being of no assistance to the defence,
as Mr. Mistree has himself conceded, I do not propose to deal with the same I
the course of this judgment. I am, however, constrained to say that Dr.
Krishnamurthi Ganpathi's evidence did not impress me at all. The record of his
evidence on paper, does not perhaps convey the halting and shaky manner in
which he gave that evidence. In contrast with the evidence of Dr.
Krishnamurthi Ganpathi, it may be stated that I was considerably as well as
frank manner in which Dr. Aumuller and Dr. Bander gave evidence on behalf of
the plaintiffs, and indeed, Mr. Mistree was unable to shake the evidence of
either of those witnesses in the course of cross-examination. With these
general observations, I will now proceed to deal with the issues framed by me.

5\. Before dealing with the questions that arise in the present suit on the
merits, it would be convenient to dispose of issues Nos. 4, 5, and 6 relating
to acquiescence, estoppel and delay. It may be mentioned that according to the
defendants the delay in the present case is a delay of about two years after
the plaintiffs' letter dated 7th March 1960 to the first defendants, the
present suit having been filed on 4th April 1962. According to the plaintiffs,
however, they could not be expected to take action till they came to know in
or about May 1961 that the first defendants had placed on the market goods
manufactured in infringement of their patent as recorded in their that mere
delay is no bar, except to relief by way of interlocutory injunction, and that
in order to disentitle the plaintiffs to perpetual injunction at the hearing
of an infringement action, there must be something more than mere delay.
Quoting from the judgment of Harman LJ in the case of Van der Lely v. Bamfords
Ltd., (1964) 81 RPC 54 at p.81 it is stated in Terrell on the Law of Patents,
(11th edn.) p. 363 para 940, ".........laches, while a bar to the obtaining of
an interlocutory order would not bar the right to a perpetual injunction s
'there must be more than mere delay to disentitle a man to his legal rights".
In support of his argument Mr. Blanco White has relied on the observation in
the case of Proctor v. Bennis, (1887) 4 RPC 333, Cotton L. J. negativing the
plea of laches stated in his judgment in the said case (at pp.355, 356) that
the court does not interfere on interlocutory injunction unless the plaintiff
has been prompt, but there was no question of interlocutory injunction in the
case before him which was at the stage of the hearing of the action. Bowel L.
J. in the course of his judgment in the same case (at p. 3580 observed that in
order to make out acquiescence which precluded the plaintiff from raising the
question of the validity of the patent and question of infringement of it by
the defendants, it was necessary that the defendants should establish that the
plaintiff stood by and knowingly allowed the defendants to proceed and expend
money in ignorance of the fact that he had rights, and meant to assert such
rights. In the case of Vidal Dyes Syndicate Ld. v. Lovinstein Ld. (1912) 29
RPC 245, which was also cited by Mr. Blanco White, it has been stated by
fletcher-Moulton L. J. (at p. 259) in the judgment to be settled law that a
patentee need not attempt to stop an infringement when he first learns of it,
but the grater the interval between the granting of the patent and the trial
of the action, the more carefully must be evidence be looked into lest the
court be induced to take an erroneous view, either on the one side or the
other, of the knowledge of the word at the critical date. In the later case of
Electrolux Ld. v. Electrix Ltd., (1953) 71 RPC 23 Jenkins L. J. dealing with
the question of delay, observed (at p.40) that the defendants were not entitle
to assume that the plaintiffs accorded them their consent to the infringement
merely because the plaintiffs, knowing of the defendants use of "Electrix".
did nothing to enforce their right, and that if the defendants adopted the
said mark on that assumption and without proper inquiry, they did so at their
own risk. The position, therefore is that mere relief by way of perpetual
injunction at the hearing of the suit, unless there is something more than
mere delay which has caused prejudice to the defendants. There is no averment
to that effect in the pleadings in the present suit, and certainly no evidence
whatsoever to prove that the defendants were prejudiced in any manner by the
alleged inaction of the plaintiffs over a considerable period of time. That is
the position in regard to the plea of acquiescence, as well as estoppel, and
delay as a factor disentitling the plaintiffs to relief. Issues Nos. 4, 5 and
6 must, therefore, be answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

6\. As stated by B. J. Wadia J. in the case of Lallubhai Chakubhai v,
Chimanlal Chunilal & Co., 37 Bom LR 665 at p. 668=(AIR 1936 Bom 99 at pp. 100,
101) the question of infringement is a mixed question of law and fact. Section
3 (3) of the Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911 lays down that an
application for a patent must contain a declaration to the effect that the
applicant is in possession of an "invention". Section 2 (8) of that act
defines "invention" as meaning any manner of manufacture and as including an
improvement. section 2 (10) of the said Act defines the term "manufacture" as
including any art, process or manner of producing, preparing or making an
article, and also any article prepared or produced by manufacture. Section 26
of the Act lays down the grounds on which a patent can be revoked. Section 29
(1) provides that a patentee can file a suit in the nature of an infringement
action against any person who, during the continuance of the patent, makes,
sells or uses the invention without his licence, or counterfeits it, or
imitates it. Sub-s. (2) of that section further provides that every ground on
which patent may be revoked under Sections 26 would be available by way of
defence to suit for infringement. Section 30 of the said Act lays down that no
damages can be recovered in respect of the infringement of a patent if the
defendant proves that at the date of the infringement he was not aware, or had
no reasonable means of making himself aware, of the existence of the patent.
Section 78A enacts that by virtue of a certain reciprocal arrangement with the
United Kingdom, any person who has applied for protection for any invention in
the United Kingdom would be entitled to claim that the patent which may be
granted to him under the Indian Patents and Designs Act for the said invention
should be in priority to other applicants and should have the same date as the
date of the application in the United Kingdom.

7\. Turning to the first three issues which embody the questions in
controversy between the parties on the merits of the present case, it may b
stated that issues Nos. 1 and 2 relate to the subject of infringement, whilst
issue No. 3 relates to the question of the validity of the plaintiffs' patent
No. 58716. I will proceed to deal with the question of infringement which is
the subject matter of issues Nos. 1 and 2. It was contended by Mr. Mistree for
the defendants that the plaintiffs have led no evidence on issue No. 1 and
they must therefore, fail on that issue, as well as on issue No. 2 which is
consequential thereto. Mr. Mistree contention was that there is nothing in the
evidence on record to show that the manufacture of Uni-Tolbid tablets or
Tolbutamide by defendants Nos. 1 and 3 was carried out by using the processes
mentioned in the plaintiffs patent No. 58716 and the plaintiffs have,
therefore, not proved the alleged infringement of the said patent by
defendants Nos. 1 and 3, the onus in regard to which lay on the plaintiffs. It
is true that, as stated by Halbury, (3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 106 para 218, the
onus as to infringement lies on the plaintiff. In the Canadian Patent Act
there is a specific statutory provision viz., Section 41 (2), which lays down
that in an action for infringement where the invention relates to the
production of a new substance, any substance of the same chemical composition
and constitution shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be deemed to
have been produced by the patented process which it is alleged to be an
infringement. Though there is no corresponding provision in the Indian Patents
and Designs Act, I see no reason why a presumption to the same effect should
not be drawn by the me against the defendants in the present case under the
general provisions contained in S. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, since it is
admitted by the defendants that it is the very drug Tolbutamide, in respect of
which the plaintiffs have obtained their patent No. 58716, that they have
prepared and sold. Moreover, though the general burden of establishing the
case of infringement undoubtedly rests on the plaintiffs as laid down in the
statement from Halsbury mentioned above which is in accordance Act, the burden
of proving a particular fact viz., the process by which Tolbutamide is being
prepared by the defendants would be on the defendants, since that is fact
"especially" within their knowledge within the terms of Section 106 of the
Indian Evidence Act. It is impossible for the plaintiffs to know by what
precise process Tolbutamide is being prepared by the defendants and it is
precisely to that sort of a case that S. 106 is intended to apply. The
defendants have not led any evidence whatsover in regard to the same. That,
however, is not all. The first question that arises is, what is the
infringement complained of by the plaintiffs in the present suit. in the
opening sentence of para 4 of the plaint it is no doubt stated in very wide
terms that the first defendants have infringed the plaintiffs' said patent No.
58716. That averment is not limited to infringement of any particular claim or
claims in the plaintiffs said patent. In the following sentence of the said
paragraph, however, it is stated that the first defendants have manufactured,
prepared and sold Uni-Tolbid tablets or Tolbutamide manufactured in accordance
with or by the use of the invention disclosed in the complete specification of
the plaintiffs' said patent "and claimed in claims 1 and 11". It is not
necessary for me to decide on a construction of the said paragraph of the
plaint whether the latter averment should be read as restricting the general
averment with which the said paragraph opens, as contended by Mr. Mistree for
the defendants, in view of the fact that Mr. Blanco White has conceded that,
on the suit as framed, the infringement that has been complained of is
infringement only of claims Nos. 1 and 11 of the plaintiffs' said have argued
this case throughout on that footing, and I must therefore, proceed to deal
with the same on the basis that the infringement complained of is infringement
only of claims Nos. 1 and 11 of plaintiffs' said patent.

8\. As stated in Halsbury((3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 6 para 8), a complete
specification customarily begins, after the title, with a general preamble
stating the subject to which the invention relates, followed by a detailed
description of one or more embodiments of the inventions. The whole of that is
known as the body of the specification. It is further stated in the said
paragraph of Halsbury that the specification ends with the claims, delimiting
the monopoly granted by the patent, and since they define the monopoly, they
must, in the event of legal proceedings, be scrutinised with as much care as
any other document defining a legal right, and require to be as carefully
Halsbury ((3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 10 paras 16 & 17) that the specification is to
be read as a whole, and that the body of the specification, or changing their
meaning by reference to the language used in the body of the specification.
though the body of the specification should be referred to for the purpose of
resolving difficulties of construction occasioned by the claims when read by
themselves. It is, therefore, clear that, in an infringement action, the main
function of the court is to construe the claims which are alleged to have been
infringed, without reference to the body of the specification, and to refer to
the body of the specification only if there is any ambiguity or difficulty in
the construction of claims in question.

9\. Before I deal with the plaintiffs' specification (Ex. A), it is in my
opinion, necessary at this stage to give, what may conveniently be called, a
glossary of the chemical terms which it is necessary to understand for the
purposes of this case. Elements are substances which cannot be broken down
into simpler substances by any chemical method, e.g., Hydrogen, Oxygen,
Nitrogen, Carbon and Sulphur. An atom is the smallest unit or particle of an
element which is capable of existence. It consists of a nucleus surrounded by
electrons which are in orbitals at increasing distances from the nucleus. The
bonding of atoms to each other is brought about by the giving or receiving of
electrons of the atoms involved. The atoms of different elements do not have
the same number of bonding electrons or free spots (valencies). Hydrogen forms
one bond (univalent), while Oxygen forms two (divalent), Nitrogen has three
valencies by which it may be linked to other atoms in the molecule of a
substance, and sulphur ordinarily has six. Bonds may be co-valent or ionic. In
the former, the two electrons forming the bond are shared equally between the
atoms concerned, while in the latter, the pair of electrons forming the bond
is associated with one of the atoms alone. A compound results from the joining
of different elements, but may differ in properties and effects from those of
the elements of which it is composed. Starting materials are the substance
which are to react with one another to get the desired product. Reaction is
the interaction of two or more compounds by means of heating or the use of a
solvent so that a different compound with properties which may not be
possessed by any of the compounds used in the reaction is produced. Reagent is
an agent which causes the reaction and in that process itself undergoes a
chemical term which merely means to prepare or make a chemical compound. A
molecular is the smallest unit of a compound which can exist. In chemical
formulae the letters stand for atoms. Chemical formulae may be written in two
ways: (1) molecular, as showing the constitution of the molecules of the
compound in terms of the atoms of the elements in it: or (2) structural, as
showing how atoms in the molecule, compounds containing only Carbon and
Hydrogen are known as Hydro-Carbon e.g. butane which consists of four Carbon
atoms and ten Hydrogen atoms (C. 4 H. 10). Urea is a compound having a
symmetrical molecular structure containing one atom of Carbon, one of Oxygen,
two of Nitrogen and four of Hydrogen. Its formula is H. 2N-Co-NH. 2. Dr.
Aumuller who was examined by the plaintiffs in this case as an expert chemist,
has deposed that ureas exist in nature as well as are prepared by man, and
that there are many kinds of ureas e.g. alkyl, aryl, sulphonyl,
benzenesulphonyl etc, He has further stated that corresponding to each of the
kinds of ureas, are thioureas, and that thioureas are prepared by man and he
does not know of any thioureas that exists in nature. Dr. Aumuller has, in the
course of his evidence, explained that in every thiourea there is a sulphur
atom, and that when one substitutes for that sulphur atom an oxygen atom, the
thiourea is converted into the corresponding urea. Dr, Aumuller further stated
in the course of his evidence that he is familiar with the different methods
of making thioureas, and that all the reactions for making thioureas would be
expressed in the formula R-S0.2-X and Y-R. 1 which is mentioned in claim No.
1, X denoting NHO. 2 and Y denoting OCH in that formula. There has been no
cross-examination of Dr. Aumuller on that statement. In the urea molecule, the
Carbon atom is at the centre with the Oxygen linked to it and occupying two of
its valencies, the other two being linked to Nitrogen atoms are occupied by
Hydrogen atoms. The structural formula of the urea molecule is as follows:-

> H O H N--C--N H O H Where the position of one of the Hydrogen atoms in the
> urea is occupied by a sulphonyl group (R-SO. 2), the substance known as
> sulphonylurea, the formula of sulphonylurea being R-SO. 2 NH-CO-NH. 2.
> Substitutions in the urea molecule can be made at both ends. Urea linkage is
> sort of bridge formed by a urea molecule connecting two radicals so that the
> whole forms a urea. 'R' in the sulphonyl; group (R. SO. 2) represents any
> organic radical, the terms radical meaning any atom or group of atoms which
> has one or more free (i.e. unused) valencies. The names of most of the
> radicals end with the letters "yl". One of the commonest of the organic
> groups is the benzene ring which consists of 6 Carbon atom being connected
> to each Hydrogen atom. The benzene ring commonly written as (Sic) may be
> linked as the 'R' in a sulphonyl group (R-SO. 2), and when so linked, it is
> also known as phenyl. The benzene ring may itself have substituents in place
> of any of the Hydrogen atoms, and the terms ortho, meta and para are used
> for the purpose of identification of the precise (nature?) of the
> substituent. The Para or what is also called the "4" position, is at that
> corner of the benzene ring which is opposite to the corner linked to another
> group. The formula of the molecule of ammonia is NH. 3. but one of its
> Hydrogen atoms can be replaced by another radical. e.g. butyl, to produce
> butylamine (C. 4H. 9 NH. 2 ). The word alkyl is applied to radicals
> containing Carbon and Hydrogen atoms only, e.g., butyl. The term alkoxy
> means alkyl joined to other components of a molecule through an Oxygen atom,
> instead of being linked directly to them. Aliphatic is a terms applied to a
> Hydro-Corbon compound in which the Carbon atoms are not arranged in a ring
> formation. When the Carbon atoms in a Hydro-Carbon compound are joined in a
> ring formation, it is called cycloaliphatic radical. An octyl radical is
> obtained from an aliphatic Hydro-Carbon radical is one which Carbon atoms
> are bound to each other with one valence free. A distinction was sought to
> be drawn by Mr. Blanco White in the course of his arguments between the
> meaning of the term "method" and the term "process". According to him,
> process was a comprehensive term which included the starting materials and
> the method followed in preparing a compound, and that distinction was
> supported by the evidence of Dr. Bander, but I am afraid no support is to be
> found for this distinction in any of the standard works or decided cases.
> The term "method" and "process" have been used indiscriminately at various
> places in standard works and in decided cases to mean the same thing, and in
> Terrel on the Law of Patents, 11th edn. at p.13 there is a quotation from a
> decided case in which meaning of manufacture". It is not necessary fro me to
> arrive at a definite conclusion on this point as, in my opinion, the
> distinction sought to be made between those two terms makes no difference
> whatsoever for the purpose of the decision of the questions that arise in
> the present case.

10\. I must now turn to the relevant portions of the specification of the
plaintiffs' patent No. 58716 (Ex. A) which is basis of their claim in this
suit. The title of the specification is "Manufacture of New Sulphonyl-Ureas,
Salts of those Compounds and of Antidiabetic Preparations containing such
Compounds". The introductory portion of the specification then states that the
invention comprised therein provides sulphonyl ureas of the general formula
R-SO. 2-NH-CO-NH R. 1, in which R represents a phenyl radical with certain
limitations in regard to the number of Carbon atoms, and R. 1 represents a
Hydro-Carbon radical also with certain limitations in regard to the number of
Carbon atoms. After indicating certain processes, the specification proceeds
to state, in one of the later paragraphs, "in further processes for making the
new compounds, the corresponding thiourea is first prepared, and sulphur is
eliminated therefrom in a conventional manner". In a still later paragraph is
stated that when the synthesis of the desired sulphonylurea starts from a
corresponding thiourea, the sulphur may be eliminated with a heavy metal Oxide
or a salt thereof, e.g. an Oxide or salt of lead, copper or silver in an
aqueous or alcoholic solution. Then follow three tables indicating the
activity of the products of the invention on rabits, dogs, and mice or rats,
to which it is unnecessary to refer. This is followed by 40 examples which are
meant to illustrate the invention, and specification finally ends up with 32
claims, out of which it is necessary to refer only to claims Nos. 1, 11 and 22
for the purpose of this case. Claim No. 1 is in the following terms:-

"1. A process for the manufacture of sulphonylureas of the general formula
R-SO. 2-NH-CO-NH-R. 1 in which R represents a phenyl radical which may contain
one or two substitutes selected from alkyl and alkoxy residues, the alkyl
group of which containing at most 8 Carbon atoms, and halogen atoms, or
represents an alipahtic or cycloaliphatic Hydro-Carbon radical containing 3 to
8 Carbon radicals (as Dr. Aumuller has pointed out, the word "radicals" here
is a mistake and should be "atoms") and R. 1 represents an aliphatic or
cycloaliphatic Hydra-Carbon radical containing 2 to 8 Carbon atoms, and of the
salts thereof, where in compounds of the formula R - SO. 2.-X and Y-R.1 are
reacted together in which X and Y are groups which ion reaction together form
a urea linkage as defined above or a linkage readily convertible thereto".

Claim No. 11 is in the following terms:-

"11. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein thioureas of the formula R-SO.
2-NH-CS-NH-R. 1 are treated with agents eliminating the sulphur, R and R. 1
having the meanings given above."

Claim No.22 reads as follows:-

"22. The compounds of the formula shown in Fig. 6 of the drawings, whenever
obtained according to claims 1-15."

11\. It may be stated that the formula shown in Figure 6 is the formula of
Tolbutamide. As already stated above, in view the admitted position, in the
suit as framed, I am concerned in this case only with claims Nos. 1 and 11
which are in respect of what may be called 'process patents", but I have
thought it appropriate to refer incidentally to claim No.22 also, in which the
patent claimed is of the substances resulting from the processes comprised in
those claims and in the other claims that claim No.1 is the main claim which
covers compounds obtained by the chemical reaction specified therein, either
directly to form a urea linkage, or indirectly to form a linkage readily
convertible into urea linkage. It is the plaintiffs' case that claim No.11
falls within the latter part of claim No.1, in so far as it deals with the
processes by which thioureas are converted to the corresponding urea linkage
by being treated with agents eliminating sulphur, the radicals R and R.1
having for the purpose of claim No.11 the same limitations in regard to the
number of Carbon atoms as they are required to have for the purposes of claim
No.1. In my opinion, that is the proper construction of claims Nos. 1 and 11
and the proper position, therefore, is as stated by Mr. Blanco White, that
claims Nos. 1 and 11 must stand or fall together and that if claim No.11 is
infringed, claim No.1 must necessarily be infringed. It may be mentioned that
Tolbutamide is one of the compounds which the plaintiffs claim to have
prepared by the processes patented by them in their said patent No.58716 which
would in addition, comprise numerous other compounds which could also be
prepared by those processes. Since the case of the first defendants in
paragraph 4 of their Written Statement is that they are preparing the compound
Tolbutamide by the process of desulphurisation of benzene-sulphonyl thioureas
with Hydrogen peroxide, in order to prove their case of infringement what the
plaintiffs have to prove is that the process of synthesising the compound
Tolbutamide by desulphurisation of benzenesulphonyl thioureas with Hydrogen
peroxide is a process which would fall within claim No.11. Mr. Mistree has
stated that he does not contest the proposition that it makes no difference
for the purpose of the present case whether the defendants purchase thiourea,
or prepare it themselves. Mr. Blanco White is, in my opinion, right when he
contends that claim No. 11 is as a matter of plain language, - and that us how
a claim should be construed as stated in the passage from Halsbury - referred
to earlier wide enough to include desulphurisation of thioureas by any
chemical substance, including Hydrogen peroxide which the defendants claim to
use. Since claim No.11 is unambiguous in its terms it would not, in my
opinion, be right to seek to construe it by reference to anything stated in
the body of the specification Ex. A. Mr. Balnco White has rightly contended
that in view of the admissions made by the defendants in their Written
Statement in the present case, it became unnecessary for the plaintiffs to
lead any evidence at all to prove infringement on the part of the defendants.
As stated in Section 58 of the Indian Evidence Act, facts which are admitted
need not be proved. The admissions on which Mr. Blanco White has relied are to
be found in paragraph 4 of the Written Statement of the first defendants,
which has been adopted by the third defendant in its Written Statement. Those
admissions are: (1) that the thiourea used as the starting material in their
process is the very starting material mentioned in claim No.11 of the
plaintiffs' patent; though there is a formal denial, the Written Statement
itself shows that, in point of fact, it is the same; (2) that the defendants
have been synthesising their drug by the process mentioned in the second
defendants' patent No. 64323, which consists of the preparation of substituted
benzensulphonyl ureas from the corresponding substituted benzenesulphonyl-
thioureas by desulphurisation with Hydrogen peroxide; (3) that the drug which
is the end product is Tolbutamide which the defendants have been synthesising
and selling; and (4) that Tolbutamide is one of a class of sulphonyl ureas. In
my opinion, there can be no doubt that these facts admitted on the pleadings
are sufficient to show that claim No. 11 in the plaintiffs' specification (Ex.
A) is necessarily infringed by the defendants. Claim No. 1 covers both the
direct as well as the indirect methods of manufacture of sulphonyl ureas. The
fact that, as Dr. Aumuller has deposed, the plaintiffs in practice adopt the
direct method in the production of Tolbutamide for sale is immaterial. The
question is not as to the method actually followed by the plaintiffs, but is
whether the method followed by the defendants, which is an indirect method, is
covered by any of the claims in the plaintiffs' patent. Even a cursory look at
claim No.11 is sufficient to show that it is wide enough to cover all methods
of eliminating sulphur from thioureas, whether the desulphurisation is
effected,, by means of Hydrogen peroxide, or by the use of any other
substance. Whether claim No. 11, so widely worded, is valid in law is a
totally different question which will be dealt with by me separately at the
appropriate place later on. Suffice it to say that from the facts admitted in
the pleadings, the conclusion that claim No. 11 has been infringed by the
defts. must follow and that in view of those admissions it was unnecessary for
the plaintiffs to lead any evidence to prove infringement on the part of the
defendants. As claim No. 11 is comprised in the wider claim contained in claim
No. 1, it must follow that claim No. 1 has also been infringed by the
defendants. I would, therefore, answer issues Nos. 1 and 2 in favour of the
plaintiffs.

12\. That leaves for consideration only the question of the validity of the
plaintiffs' patent which has been challenged by the defendants by way of
defence to the plaintiffs' suit under Section 29 (2) of the Indian Patents and
Designs Act. That is the main question that arises for decision in the present
suit and it will, therefore, be necessary for me to deal with it in all its
aspects. The grounds on which the validity of the plaintiffs' patent is sought
to be impeached by way of defence in this suit are to be found in paragraphs 5
and 6 of the first defendants' Written Statement, read along with the
particulars in respect thereof set out in an annexure to the plaint which is
marked No. "2". It will be convenient to deal with them one by one. In
paragraph 5 of that Written Statement and Clause (h) of paragraph 6 thereof it
is alleged that by not explicitly describing the process as stated in the
patent of the Haffikine Institute, the plaintiffs' specification does not
disclose the best method of performance of the alleged invention known to the
plaintiffs at the material time. No argument has been addressed by Mr. Mistree
for the defendants at all in regard to this ground, nor has any evidence been
lad with regard to the same. It must, therefore, be treated as given up by the
defendants. The next ground of alleged invalidity is also to be found in
paragraph 5 of the first defendants' Written Statement, and it is that claims
Nos. 1 and 11 are not fairly based on the matter disclosed in the
specification and are deliberately wide and vague, e.g. as the elimination of
sulphur in the plaintiffs' specification is stated to be effected in a
conventional matter and the conversion mentioned in claim No. 11 is to be
effected by the use of "agents eliminating the sulphur." This is the same as
grounds (e) and (f) in paragraph 6 of the first defendants' Written Statement
and in clause (iv) of the particulars annexed thereto and marked No. "2". It
may briefly be described as the ground of insufficiency of description. The
third ground of alleged invalidity is to be found stated in Clause (a) of
paragraph 6 of the Written Statement of the first defendants, and it is that
the true and first inventor was not the applicant for the patent. No evidence
whatsoever has been led in regard to this ground and no argument was addressed
by Mr. Mistree with regard to the same and this ground must, therefore, be
treated as abandoned by the defendants. The fourth ground of alleged
invalidity is that the invention claimed by the plaintiffs was not new. This
ground which may be stated briefly to be the ground of want of novelty is to
be found in Clause (b) of paragraph 6 of the first defendant's Written
Statement and in Clause (1) of the particulars annexed thereto and marked No.
"2". The fifth ground of alleged invalidity is that it does not involve any
inventive step. It is to be found in Clause (c) of paragraph 6 of the first
defendants' Written Statement read with clauses (i) and (ii) of the
particulars annexed thereto and marked No. "2". It may be sub-divided into tow
contentions, (a) that the methods of manufacture are old, and (b) that
carbutamide was already known. The sixth ground of alleged invalidity is that
the plaintiffs' invention is of no utility. This is to be found in Clause (d)
of paragraph 6 of the first defendants' Written Statement read with Clause
(iii) of the particulars annexed thereto and marked No. "2". The last ground
of alleged invalidity is to be found in Clause (g) of paragraph 6 of the first
defendants' Written Statement, but when one refers to that ground as pleaded
in Clause (g) of paragraph 8 of the Written Statement of the second
defendants, read with Clause (iii) of the particulars annexed thereto and also
marked No. "2", it is clear that it is nothing different from the ground of
want of utility already mentioned above. In fact, it may be stated that all
the grounds of alleged invalidity set out above are also to be found in the
Written Statement of the second defendants and are based on Section 26 of the
Indian Patents and Designs Act which the defendants are entitled to avail
themselves of in view of sub-section (2) of Section 29 of that Act.

13\. From what is discussed in the preceding paragraph it will therefore, be
clear that the main heads of the alleged invalidity of the plaintiffs' patent
on which the defendants rely by way of defence are only four viz. (1)
insufficiency of description; (2) want of novelty; (3) no inventive step and
(4) want of utility. It may be stated that the onus in regard to all
objections to validity lies on the defendant (Halsbury, (3rd ed.) Vol. 29 p.
106 paragraph 218). I shall now proceed to deal with each of those grounds.

14\. Dealing first with the ground of insufficiency of description it is
stated in Halsbury, (3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 64 para 131 that the claim need only
be as clear as the subject admits, and that a patentee need not so simplify
his claim as to make it easy for infringers to evade it. It is further stated
in that passage in Halsbury that the patentee's duty is not to prevent all
possible argument as to whether there is or is not infringement in particular
cases, but to enable the court to formulate the questions of fact to be
answered. It is further stated in the same Volume of Halsbury (p. 66 para 138)
that insufficiency of description has two branches, (1) the complete
specification must describe "an embodiment" of the invention claimed in each
of the claims and that the description must be sufficient to enable those in
the industry concerned to carry it into effect "without their making further
inventions"; and (2) that the description must be fair i.e. it must not be
unnecessarily difficult to follow. Turning first to claim No. 11 in the
present case in the light of these principles, the reference in the body of
the specification to "a conventional manner" of eliminating sulphur cannot
really create any difficulty, and it is in fact unnecessary to import this
from the body of the specification into claim No. 11 in view of the fact that
claim in terms, being, wide enough to include all methods of eliminating
sulphur. As stated earlier in this judgment, it is permissible to refer to the
body of the specification only when there is some difficulty or ambiguity in
the construction of a claim as it stands. In any event, Hydrogen peroxide as a
desulphurising agent would be an obvious chemical equivalent of heavy metal
oxides or a salt thereof in an aqueous or alcoholic solution which are also
used for desulphurising in "a conventional manner". Moreover, the secret or
discovery essential to the validity of the plaintiffs' invention, as claimed,
and forming the very basis of it is not the method, but is the previously
undiscovered fact of a new class of chemical compounds having hitherto
unsuspected blood-sugar-lowering properties, twenty-one methods of synthesis
of sulphonylureas being already known at the material time as is apparent from
p. 27 of Kurzer's article on sulphonylureas and sulphonylthioureas in Vol. 50
of the Chemical Reviews (Ex. 1). There is no evidence led by the defendants to
show that the statement in the body of the specification that the synthesis of
the desired sulphonylurea may be obtained by eliminating sulphur with a heavy
metal oxide or a salt thereof in an aqueous or alcoholic solution would
present any difficulty. The specification and claims are addressed to those
with a high degree of knowledge of the field of science to which they relate,
particularly when they relate to chemistry and allied subjects. It is not
necessary to describe processes on the Claims to a specification when they are
part of the common knowledge available to those skilled in the science who
can, after reading them, refer to the technical literature on the subject for
the purpose of carrying them into effect. "An embodiment" of the invention is,
therefore, in my opinion, sufficiently described in the plaintiffs patent and
that description is not unnecessarily difficult to follow, it being sufficient
to enable the invention to be carried into effect "without making further
inventions". As far as claim No. 1 is concerned, there are as many as 40
examples of it in the specification (Ex. A) and there would, therefore, be no
difficulty in carrying the same into effect. The ground of insufficiency of
description alleged by the defendants must, therefore, fail.

15\. That brings me to the next ground of alleged invalidity of the
plaintiffs' patent viz. want of novelty. The test of novelty as formulated by
Halsbury, (3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 27 para 58) is in the following terms: "To
anticipate a patent, a prior publication or activity must contain the whole of
the invention impugned; i.e., all the features by which the particular claim
attacked is limited. In other words, the anticipation must be such as to
describe, or be an infringement of the claim attacked." The starting materials
for the purpose of claim No. 11 were the thioureas corresponding to the ureas
invented and claim No. 11 itself states in specific terms that the radicals R
and R. 1 in the formula of the thioureas set out therein must have the
meanings given to them in claim No. 1. That would mean that the radical R must
be limited in regard to the number of Carbon atoms in the matter stated in
claim No. 1. Dr. Aumuller was asked in examination-in-chief a question as to
why the radicals R and R. 1 in the specification (Ex. A) are limited in the
manner therein stated, and his answer was "because only such products had been
taken into the patent which lower the blood-sugar", or in other words for
obtaining a hypoglycaemic effect particular radicals were selected by a
process of testing on animals. It would follow that if the Carbon atoms in R.
or R. 1 were more or less than the number specified in claim No. 1
hypoglycaemic property would not be obtained, and that has been stated
explicitly by Dr. Bander in the course of his examination-in-chief. The
evidence on record shows that it was known that amino-sulphonamides had anti-
diabetic properties. Many sulphoylureas were also known, but they were all
with the wrong radicals at either end and it was not known that they could
have anti-diabetic properties if they were activated by certain radicals. That
was the prior art and, in that state of knowledge, it was not possible for a
skilled chemist to predict that the combining of the two starting materials
mentioned in the plaintiffs' patent would produce compounds which would have
hypoglycaemic properties. The idea which is new in the plaintiffs' patent is
the discovery that a useful anti-diabetic preparation could be obtained by
constructing a molecule with a sulphonylurea in the middle and carefully
planned lumps of radicals at either end. The novelty in the plaintiffs' patent
lies entirely in the R and R. 1/ What is new in the plaintiffs' patent is that
it was discovered that it was possible to have the desired anti-diabetic
properties, without producing undesirable toxic or anti-bacterial effects of
known sulphonamides like I. P. T. D., by modifying the structure of the
sulphonylurea in a particular way. The way in which that new idea was sought
to be applied was (1) to select proper material having certain
characteristics; (2) to react them together and (3) to obtain the product,
directly or indirectly. I therefore hold that the objection to the validity of
the plaintiffs' patent on the ground of want of novelty must stand rejected.

16\. That brings me to the next ground of the alleged invalidity of the
plaintiffs' patent viz. that it does not comprise any inventive step. As
already stated above, this would have to be considered under two sub-heads,
(a) that the methods of manufacture are old, and (b) that carbutamide was
already known at the material time. As far as the first of those sub-heads is
concerned the principles to be applied by the court in regard to the same are
to be found well-formulated by Jenkins J. in the leading case of In the matter
of the Letters Patent granted to May & Baker Ltd. and Ciba Ltd., (1948) 65 RPC
255 at p. 281, they are as follows:-

"Before referring to this evidence, I should, I think, endeavour to state the
principles on which, and limits within which, an invention consisting of the
production of new substances by known methods from known materials can be
supported from the point of view of subject-matter. I understand them to be
these:-

(i) An invention consisting of the production of new substance from known
materials by known methods cannot be held to possess subject-matter, merely on
the ground that the substances produced are new, for the substances produced
may serve no useful purpose, in which case the inventor will have contributed
nothing to the common stock of useful knowledge (the methods and materials
employed being already known) or of useful materials (the substances produced
being ex hypothesis, useless).

(ii) Such an invention may, however be held to possess subject-matter provided
the substances produced are not only new but useful, though this is subject to
the qualification that the substances produced must be truly new, as opposed
to being merely additional members of a known series (such as the homologues)
and that their useful qualities must be the inventor's own discovery as
opposed to mere verification by him of previous predictions.

(iii) Even where an invention consists of the production of further members of
a known series whose useful attributes have already been described or
predicted, it may possess sufficient subject-matter to support a valid patent
provided the somewhat stringent conditions prescribed by Maugham J., as he
then was, in I. G. Farbenindustrie A. G.'s Patents, (1930) 47 RPC 289 as
essential to the validity of a selection patent are satisfied, i. e. the
patent must be based upon on some substantial advantage to be gained form the
use of the selected members of the known series or family of substances, the
whole) of the selected members must possess this advantage, and this advantage
must be peculiar (or substantially peculiar) to the selected group."

It is the contention of Mr. Blanco whit that the plaintiffs' case falls within
principle (ii) formulated by Jenkins J. The mere fact that the methods adopted
are known methods cannot, therefore, lead to the conclusion that there is no
inventive step. As stated by Jenkins himself in his judgment in the said case
(at p. 279), in view of the fact that the methods described in the
specification, were in themselves known methods, the respondents could only
claim novelty for them as part of the entire process consisting of their
application to the particular classes of materials described in the
specification so as to produce the new substances claimed. If the useful
qualities of the new substances produced are the inventor's own discovery,
that would be sufficient to repel the objection that there is no inventive
step. The objection on the ground which I am now discussing, therefore,
ultimately resolves itself into a consideration of the utility of the
plaintiffs' invention which will be dealt with by me separately as the last
head on which the validity of the plaintiffs' patent is being challenged by
the defendants in the present suit. The second sub-head of objection which I
am now considering which is based on the fact that carbutamida was already
known at the material time and the blood-sugar-lowering qualities of the
compounds to which the plaintiffs' patent relates were therefore obvious may,
however, patent relates were therefore obvious may, however, be disposed of
here. The test of 'obviousness' is laid down with characteristic lucidity in
Halsbury (3rd edn.) Vol. 29 p. 42 para 95) in the form of a question - "Was it
for practical purposes obvious to a skilled worker, in the field concerned, in
the state of knowledge existing at the date of the patent to be found in the
literature then available to him, that he would or should make the invention
the subject of the claim concerned?" It is further stated in Halsbury (p. 43
para 96) that an invention usually involves three stages, (1) the definition
of the problem to be solved, or the difficulty to be overcome, (2) the choice
of the general principle to be applied in solving the problem overcoming the
difficulty; and (3) the choice of the particular means to be used. It is
further stated in the said paragraphs that merit in any one of these stages,
or in the whole combined, may support the invention, and it is, therefore,
probably more important to consider the advance in knowledge due to the
inventor rather than to examine in detail the variations from the former
product. In order to support this objection, it is necessary for the
defendants to show in the present case that carbutamide was known in India. If
the plaintiff could show that it was not obvious to a man in the art, like the
director of the Haffkine Institute, even after notionally putting in his hands
standard works like Houben-Weyl and the article by Kurzer in Vol. 50 of the
Chemical Reviews (Ex. 1) as well as other scientific material on the subject
then available in India, that he would or should make the invention which is
the subject of the plaintiffs' patent, the defendants' objection now under
consideration must fail. As Mr. Blanco White has stated, there is no evidence
which Mr. Mistree has been able to point out to the court to show that
Carbutamide was known in India at the material time. That, by itself, would be
sufficient to dispose of the defendants' objection on that score Mr. Blanco
White however, proceeded to deal with this objection on the alternative
footing of carbutamide being known in India at the material time and contended
that, even so, the defendants' objection on this ground must fail. In that
connection he relied on the evidence of Dr. Aumuller given in examination-in-
chief which was as follows:-

Q. Assuming the knowledge common to the common chemist in 1956, the knowledge
of the article by Kurzer, the knowledge of IPTD, and the knowledge of
carbutamide, would you have known all the possible blood-sugar-lowering
properties of sulphonyl ureas?

A. I would have known nothing of those properties of sulphonyl ureas other
than those of the type of Carbutamide, with an amino group in the para
position. It may be mentioned that carbutamide is itself a sulphonylureas, but
IPTD is not a sulphonylurea. There is no cross-examination of Dr. Aumuller on
this point, though he has been cross-examined by Mr. Mistree in regard to the
difference in the chemical composition of carbutamide as compared with
Tolbutamide. In order to appreciate the evidence which I am now discussing, it
would be convenient, at this stage, to point the difference between the
respective chemical compositions of Carbutamide and Tolbutamide. The molecular
formula of carbutamide is:-

NH. 2-C.-6 H. 4-SO. 2-NH-CO-NH-C. 4 H. 9 The break-up of this formula would be
as follows:-

NH 2-Amino group C. 6 H. 4 - Benzene ring Forming the radical R.

SO. 2-NH-CO NH - Sulphonyl-urea group with hypoglycaemic properties, of which
NH-CO-NH is the urea group. C. 4 H. 9 - Butyl group forming the radical R. 1.

Carbutamide which was developed early in 1955 was found to have hypoglycaemic
properties, but was withdrawn from the market by 1957 as it was found to be
unsuitable for prolonged administration on account of its toxic effects. Long
before Carbutamide was developed, it was known that some sulphonamide drugs
(sulpha drugs) had blood sugar lowering properties, but they could not be used
for the treatment of diabetes because they had toxic effects and were
therefore unfit for prolonged administration. The plaintiffs' case is that, in
the meantime, Dr. Aumuller, who was employed by them, carried on research and
found that if instead of attaching the amino group (NH. 2) to the benzene
ring, the methyl group (CH. 3) was attached to it in the radical R. it would,
whilst preserving the hypoglycaemic effect, not have toxic effect. He
accordingly discovered the new compounds containing the methyl radical which
form the subject-matter of the plaintiffs' patent (Ex. A) in the present case,
Tolbutamide being one of them. The molecular formula of Tolbutamide therefore
is:-

CH. 3 -C. 6 H. 4-SO. 2- NH - CO- NH C. 4 H. 9 The break up of that formula is
as follows:-

CH. 3 - Methyl group CH. 6 H. 4 - Benzene ring Forming the radical R.

SO. 2 - NH - CO - NH - Sulphonylureas group with hypoglycaemic properties, of
which NH - CO - NH is the urea group.

C. 4 H. 9 - Butyl group forming the radical R. 1.

It is therefore clear that the only difference in the respective chemical
compositions of Carbutamide and Tolbutamide is that the latter has the methyl
group (CH. 3) in place of the amino group (NH. 2) which occurs in the former
in the para position in the radical R, as Dr. Aumuller himself has admitted.
That, however, is the crux of the plaintiffs' invention to which patent No.
58716 relates. The substitution of CH. 3 in the para position for NH. 2 was
the inventive step. It was a novel idea and the plaintiffs' patent therefore
embodies a new and useful composition of matter, or at any rate, a new and
useful improvement in it. It was not a thing which just any person working in
this field would try, but it required extensive research. As observed in the
Irish judgment to which I will refer later on. Courts of law must guard
against the common human failing of being wise after the event in regarding
something that has been discovered by research as obvious. Dr. Bander has
stated in examination-in-chief that though sulphonylureas were known prior to
the invention in suit, it was not known that if they were activated by certain
radicals they would have blood sugar reducing properties. The use of
sulphonyl-ureas with radicals on either side with certain limitations in
regard to Carbon atoms so as to obtain hypoglycaemic properties would itself
be an addition "to the common stock of useful knowledge within the May &
Baker's case, (1948) 65 RPC 255 at p. 281. In the course of cross-examination
Dr. Bander has stated that the group SO. 2-NH -CO - NH is common both to
Tolbutamide as well as carbutamide and he then proceeded to depose, "It is
true that, therefore that blood sugar reducing effect of Tolbutamide is
obvious." which, he proceeded to clarify, must mean obvious to a man who had
knowledge of the sulphonylurea group. That statement of Dr. Bander was
strongly relied upon by Mr. Mistree on behalf of the defendants in support of
the point I am now considering, but as Mr. Blanco White has rightly pointed
out, Mr. Mistree has not elicited from Dr. Bander the point of time at which
the blood sugar reducing effect of Tolbutamide became obvious to him. At any
rate, as already pointed out above, there is no evidence to show when it must
have become obvious in India, in view of the fact that evidence has not been
led to prove when carbutamide became known in India. There is no evidence to
show that it was known that the blood sugar lowering property of carbutamide
lay in its sulphonylurea. In view of this position, as appearing in the
evidence on record. I am afraid the statement of Dr. Bander that the blood
sugar reducing property of Tolbutamide "is obvious" cannot really help the
defendants to sustain the objection based on obviousness on the ground of
alleged knowledge carbutamide, and the same must be rejected.

17\. That brings me to the most important part of the present case and that is
the objection to the validity of the plaintiffs' patent on the ground of want
of utility, which would also cover the other objection, already referred to by
me, based on the ground that the methods of manufacture comprised in the
plaintiffs' patent are old, an objection which also rests in the ultimate
analysis, on the decision in regard to the question of utility. The first
question that arises in regard to the subject of the utility of the
plaintiffs' patent is what is the quantum of utility required to support a
patent. Reference may be made in that connection to the statement in Patents
for Inventions by T. A. Blanco White (the learned Counsel appearing for the
plaintiffs in the present case), 3rd edn., at pp. 152-153 to the effect that
in the absence of any promise in the specification that a definite degree of
advantage would result from the use of the invention, the amount of utility
required to support a patent is very small. It is further stated in the said
passage that it is, in particular, not necessary that the invention as
described should be commercially useful, unless the specification promises
that it would be, and that it is sufficient that that invention should, by
reason of the features that distinguish it from earlier proposals, be of some
use to the public. It is further stated that it is not necessary that a new
result should be obtained by using the invention, and that the test is whether
the new method "gives the public a useful choice." In support of that
proposition, the learned counsel for the plaintiffs relied on the decision in
the case of Welsbach Incandescent Gas Light Co. Ltd. v. New Incandescent
(Sunlight Patent) Gas Lightning Co. Ltd., (1900) 17 RPC 237 in which the
patent in question was for a gas light mantle, which though stronger than the
gaslight mantles under an earlier patent, shed less candle power of light than
those mantles. It was subsequently discovered that while the patented light
had low illuminating power, a small proportion of another chemical substance
added to it gave very great improvement in candle power. It was contended on
behalf of the defendants to the said action for infringement that since the
illuminating methods produced under the patent would give less light, it was
not an improvement at all on the mantles prepared under the earlier patent,
but was as falling off from it. It was observed in the judgment in the said
case (at p. 251) that there were two answers to the objection raised by the
defendants. The first was that the patent in question did not claim to be an
improvement on the earlier patent but to give a "useful choice"; and the
second was that if the matter had to be decided by the value of the mantle as
an illuminating appliance alone the contention might be well founded, but
there were advantages other than brilliancy and the new discovery produced
illuminating appliances which had other qualities, viz. rigidity, flexibility
or durability. Judged by these tests, the position is that the plaintiffs'
patent in the present case cannot be attacked on the ground of want of
utility, since it certainly gives a "useful choice" in the matter of compounds
with a blood sugar lowering property which was not known till then, unless by
the specification (Ex. A) a higher degree of utility was promised by the
Plaintiffs. In the course of the evidence led before me, the defendants have
not been able to point out a single compound which would fall within the
patent, but which did not have blood sugar lowering properly, and all that
they were able to point out was that some of those compounds were weaker than
others, a point which is of no relevance for the purpose of the present case,
I must, therefore, proceed to consider what is the utility promised in the
specification (Ex. A) for the compounds falling within it? A careful scrutiny
of the specification (Ex. A) shows that all that is promised therein is, (1)
that all the compounds falling within the plaintiffs' patent would lower the
blood-sugar and (2) that they are not sulphonamides and avoid the difficulty
of the administration of sulphonamides, viz, the causing of allergy as well as
their bacterio-static activity. As far as their toxicity is concerned, what is
stated in the specification (Ex-A) is that their acute toxicity (tested on
mice or rats) was as set out in Table No. III appended thereto. Mr. Blanco
White has submitted that there is no statement contained in the specification
(Ex. A) by way of promise that any of the compounds falling within the patent
is safe for human beings. It is no doubt stated in the said specification that
the compounds of the invention are "usually extremely well-tolerated". and
that extensive clinical tests performed on numerous patients had demonstrated
good tolerance of the compounds. It is common ground that the expression
"well-tolerated" means that it had no strong side effects. It was sought to be
contended by Mr. Mistree for the defendants that it was, therefore, claimed in
the specification (Ex. A) that all compounds falling within the patent had no
toxic effect, which would be one of the side effects to be guarded against Mr.
Mistree has contended that he has established by the evidence of Dr. Bander
that it could not be predicted whether a particular sulphonyl urea falling
within the patent would be safe to administer to a human being, and that he
could not predict tolerability in human beings by experimenting on animals,
and the plaintiffs' patent must, therefore, be held to be invalid on the
ground of want of the utility claimed for it in the specification (Ex. A). I
am afraid, however, the statements in the specification on which Mr. Mistree
has relied cannot be torn from their context. It is quite clear from the
specification itself that extensive tests for toxicity of the compounds
falling within the patent had been performed on mice or rats. The statement
that extensive clinical tests performed on numerous patients had demonstrated
good tolerance of those compounds, when read in the context of the earlier
statement in the said specification that the said compounds are "usually"
extremely well-tolerated, shows that it is intended to apply only to such of
the compounds as had been subjected to clinical test. I, therefore, hold that
there is no claim in the specification (Ex. A) in regard to utility of the
compounds falling within the present which has been disproved by the evidence
led in this case.

18\. Strong reliance was placed by Mr. Mistree for the defendants on the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada reported in (1966) SCR 189, confirming
the decision of the Exchequer Court of Canada reported in (1965) 1 Ex. CR 710,
in regard to the patent which the plaintiffs had obtained in Canada in respect
of the very processes of which the plaintiffs have obtained the patent in
question in this country, Tolbutamide being one of the compounds falling
within both the Canadian patent as well as the patent in this country. In the
action in the Exchequer Court of Canada, the plaintiffs to the present suit
who were also party plaintiffs there, had prayed for an injunction and other
reliefs in respect of the alleged infringement of ten patents, a printed copy
of one of which viz. patent No. 590201 has been tendered and marked Ex. 2 in
the present proceedings. The defendants to the said suit had sold through out
Canada Tolbutamide in alleged infringement of the plaintiffs' said patents.
The sale of Tolbutamide by them was admitted by the defendants, but they
pleaded that claims Nos. 1 and 10 of nine of the said patents and claims Nos.
1 and 13 is of patent No. 590201 were invalid for a number of reasons. If one
scrutinizes the Canadian patent No. 590201 (Ex. 2) claim No. 1 therein was, as
Mr. Mistree has rightly contented, a combination of claims Nos. 1 and 11 in
the present case, the validity of which has been questioned before me. It was
not disputed that claim No. 10 in the first nine of the Canadian patents and
claim No. 13 in Canadian Patent No. 590201 (Ex. 2) related to the compound
Tolbutamide itself. It contained the same formula as in Fig. 6 of the
specification (Ex. A) in the present case, and referred to a compound of that
formula whenever obtained according to claim No. 1 or the obvious chemical
equivalent thereof, I do not, however, accept the contention of Mr. Blanco
White that claim No. 1 in the Canadian Patent is different in material
respects from claim No.1 in the present case, merely because there is no
limitation in the Canadian patent in regard to Carbon atoms as far as alkyl,
alkoxy and halogen are concerned. It is admitted by the plaintiffs' own
witnesses in the present case that if R and R. 1 are varied simultaneously,
and three different positions viz. ortho, meta and para are used in respect of
each mono-substituent the possible number of sulphonyl-ureas that could be
prepared according to claim No. 1 of the plaintiffs' patent (Ex. A) would run
into millions. The whole contention of Mr. Mistree is that claim No. 1 of the
plaintiffs' patent No. 58716 is invalid because it covers millions of
compounds which have not been tested in respect of their utility, and it is in
support of that contention that Mr. Mistree has relied on the Canadian case.
Merely because, under the Canadian patent, the permutations and combinations
would run perhaps into some thousands or some millions more by reason of the
absence of any limitation with regard to Carbon atoms as far as akyl, alkoxy
and halogen are concerned, would make no difference as far as the ratio of the
decision in the Canadian case is concerned. In my opinion, therefore, the
decision in the Canadian case cannot be distinguished on facts from the
present case. Even so, I must proceed to consider whether I should follow the
same, as decisions of Canadian courts do not bind me. In the trial court,
Thurlow J. in his judgment dealt with the question of validity of claim No. 1
of the plaintiffs' Canadian patent. He observed (at p. 728) that there could
not be an invention in a process which consists in applying a known method of
reaction to a limitless class of known materials to produce an equally
limitless class of expected products, when all that can properly be said of
such products is that some of them have utility and others, the identity of
which is not known, may have it as well, but that the infinite majority of the
substance of the class have never been made or tested by anyone. He held (at
p. 734) that it is highly improbable that all, or substantially all, of the
members of the infinitely large class defined in claim 1 of the ten patents
have either the blood sugar lowering activity to a useful extent or the
freedom from toxicity or harmful side effects necessary to render them useful.
He therefore, came to the conclusion (at p. 734) that there was no invention
as claimed in claim No. 1 of each of the said patents which was, therefore,
invalid. He further held that by reason of the provisions of Section 41 (1) of
the Patent Act of Canada, a substance patent would be valid only if
accompanied by a valid process patent, and that in view of the invalidity of
claim No. 1 of each of the ten patents which contained the process patent, the
substance patent in claim No. 10 in the first nine patents and claim No. 10 in
the first nine patents and claim No. 13 in patent No. 590201 must also be held
to be invalid. In view of that conclusion, the learned Judge held that it was
unnecessary for him to consider the issue of infringement, and he accordingly
dismissed the plaintiffs' action with costs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of
Canada from the decision of the Exchequer Court of Canada, it was held (at p.
191) that all the patents related to processes which produced new sulphonyl
ureas by known methods from known materials, with the result that the
patentability of the process depended on the possession of unexpected utility
by new substances produced, and that the unexpected utility stated in the
patents was the capacity of lowering blood sugar levels which is referred to
as hypoglyaemic activity. In the opinion of the Supreme Court (at p. 194),
what the appellant had consequently overclaimed, and, in doing so, had
invalidated claim No. 1 in each of the patents before them. The Supreme Court
also confirmed the decision of Thurlow J. that if claim No. 1 failed, the
remaining claims in the patents in question must also fail. Mr. Blanco White
has submitted that he has no quarrel with the decision of the Exchequer Court
goes a little too far in so far as it relies merely on the possible number of
compounds that would be comprised in claim No. 1. Mr. Blanco White contended
that the Supreme Court of Canada had, however, not gone merely on numbers, but
had proceeded to decide the case on the principle that the validity of the
patents in question depended on the possession of unexpected utility by the
new substance produced, and had invalidated the plaintiffs' patents class of
compounds comprised in them remained uncharted 'and unexplored. Mr. Blanco
White has submitted that the decision in the Canadian case is not applicable
to the present case, because there is evidence in the present case of
systematic exploration by way of research leading to the establishment of the
blood sugar lowering properties of all the compounds falling within the
plaintiffs' patent. That evidence consists in the present case of the oral
evidence of the plaintiffs' expert witnesses, and documentary evidence in the
form of the chart (Ex. B) as filled in by Dr. Aumuller, evidence which I
accept as reliable. As a result of that research, the necessary limitations in
regard to the Carbon atoms in the radicals R and R. 1 were discovered, which
in its turn led to the invention that all compounds with those limitations had
blood sugar lowering properties, as Dr. Bander has deposed in Examination-in-
chief. It is not clear from the judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada
whether it has proceeded on a basis different from the ratio of the decision
of the Exchequer Court of Canada, as Mr. Blanco White has submitted in the
course of his argument. In any event, I do not agree with the decision of the
Exchequer Court in so far as it has proceeded purely on a numerical basis and
has rested its judgment merely on the fact that there would be a large number
of possible compounds that could be produced by the patented process which had
not been tested. In my opinion, when a process patent is obtained after
prolonged and thorough research work, it may be possible to predict that the
substances produced by that process. As stated in Terrel on the Law of Patents
(11th ed.) p. 128 para 315, it is wrong to suppose that "there is no provision
in chemistry." I accept the evidence of Dr. Bander that when several
pharmacological compounds having the same characteristic structure exhibit the
same pharmacological behaviour, it can be predicted that other such compounds
would have the same behaviour, provided the necessary limitations in regard to
radicals are observed, particularly when compounds without those limitations
have also been tested and found not to have the property in question. I am
afraid I am unable to agree with the decision the Exchequer Court of Canada in
the above case that merely because a process patent may embrace a very large
number of compounds all of which, cannot be individually tested, the patent
must be held to be invalid. To take that view would, in my opinion, invalidate
a large number of process patents. I therefore, decline to follow the decision
of the Exchequer Court of Canada in the above case. If the Supreme Court of
Canada intended to lay down a different test viz. the tests as to whether the
new substances produced by that process can, after proper research, be
predicted as possessing "unexpected utility" in the form of hypoglycaemic
effect, I agree with that view. That test is satisfied in the present case, as
held by me above.

19\. I am informed that the Patent office in this country follows the same
practice as is prevalent in Canada which is based on Section 41 (1) of the
Canadian Patent Act mentioned above, which in its turn was based on a section
in the old Patent Act in England that, as far as chemical substances intended
for food or medicine are concerned, patents cannot be granted for the
substance itself, except when prepared by the processes claimed or their
obvious chemical equivalents. It has been stated to me that this practice of
the Indian Office is based on the English practice. I am afraid, however, the
Indian Patent Office has overlooked the fact that the section on which the
England practice was based has since been repealed in England (vide Terrell on
the Law of Patents 11th edn.) p. 20 para 53) and does not find place in the
new English Act of 1949 and there is no such practice now prevalent in
England, and that there is no section or to Section 41 (1) of the Canadian
Patent Act in the Indian Patents and Designs Act. There is, therefore, no
warrant for chemical patents being treated in this country in a way different
from other patents, in regard to which the patents for substances per se. In
the absence of express statutory provisions, as stated in Terrell on the Law
of Patents (11th Edn.) pp. 127-128 para 315, the belief that the law
applicable to chemical cases is peculiar is erroneous, and the principles
applicable in the case of patents for chemical process are "precisely similar"
to those applicable in the case of other plants.

19A. The validity of a claim corresponding to claim No. 1 in the present case
was also challenged in an infringement action brought by the present action
brought by the present plaintiffs in Ireland where the validity of that claim
was upheld by the Irish court in a judgment delivered on 28th November 1967.
It may be stated that the plaintiffs have registered a substance patent for
Tolbutamide in England, but their patent in Ireland is a process patent only
in view of the statutory provisions in force there. In upholding the
plaintiffs' patent it was stated by Kenny J. in his judgment in the said Irish
case. "In my opinion, the writer of the claims in a process patent is entitled
to include claims for processes which he is certain will work because of the
results of other processes." I am in full agreement with that view of Kenny J.
The question which arose for decision in the Canadian case and is rased by Mr.
Mistree in the present case,however, did not arise before the Court in Ireland
and it is therefore not necessary for me to deal any further with the same. It
may be mentioned that the Canadian case discussed above, though earlier in
point of time, has not been considered in the judgment in the Irish case.

20\. As stated by Halsbury (3rd Edn.) Vol. 29 p. 59 Para. 123, "not useful" in
patent law means that the invention will not work, either in the sense that it
will not operate at all or more broadly, that it will not do what the
specification promises that it will do. If the invention will give the result
promised at all, the objection on the ground of want of utility must fail. It
is further stated in the said passage that the practical usefulness or
commercial utility of the invention does not matter, nor does it matter
whether the invention is of any real benefit to the public, or particularly
suitable for the purposes suggested, and that it is only failure to produce
the results promised that will invalidate the patent, not misstatements as to
the purposes to which such results might be applied. In Terrell on the Law of
Patents, (11th Edn.) p. 98 para 248, quoting from an English case, it is
stated that if the patentee claims protection for a process for producing a
result and that result cannot be produced by the process, the consideration
fails. It is further stated there that objections to patents on such grounds
are sometimes treated as objections for want of utility, and when so treated,
the well known rule is that the utility of an invention depends upon whether,
by following the directions of the patentee, the result which the patentee
professed to produce can in fact be produced. Quoting from another English
case, the same proposition is stated in another way in Terrell at p. 99, viz.
that the protection is purchased by the promise of results, and that it does
not, and ought not, to survive "the proved failure" of the promise to produce
the results. As already stated above, the only result which the specification
(Ex. A) in the present case professed to produce was a new class of chemical
compounds having hitherto unsuspected blood sugar lowering property, but
without the undesirable side effects of the previously known sulphonamides. As
also stated above, the defendants have not been able to prove that a single
compound falling within the patent does not possess blood sugar lowering
properties to a greater or lesser degree. The position, therefore, is that not
only is there no "proved failure" to produce the results promised by the
plaintiffs' patent specification (Ex. A), but there is a "proved failure" on
the ---part of the defendants to show that compounds falling within the patent
do not have the blood sugar lowering properties promised by that patent. I,
therefore, hold that the objectionon the ground of want of utility must fail,
and with it also the objection that the methods of manufacture are old and
known methods and, therefore, there is no inventive step as far as the
plaintiffs' patent No. 58716 is concerned. In the result, all the grounds on
which the validity of the plaintiffs' patent was challenged stand rejected,
and issue No. 3 must be answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

21\. In view of the conclusion at which I have arrived, the plaintiffs will be
entitled to the normal reliefs available in an infringement action, viz., an
injunction, as well as an order for the delivering up for destruction of all
articles in the defendants' possession made in infringement of the plaintiffs'
patent No. 58716. The plaintiffs have, however, not led any evidence before me
to prove damages, nor has any argument been addressed to me in regard to the
claim for damages or the alternative claim for an account of the profits
contained in prayer (c) of the plaint which must, therefore, be treated as not
pressed by the plaintiffs. I answer the issues as follows:-

1\. In the affirmative.

2\. In the affirmative.

3\. Plaintiffs' patent No. 58716 is not invalid and is not liable and is not
liable to be revoked or any of those grounds.

4\. In the negative.

5\. In the negative.

6\. The plaintiffs are entitled to relief by way of injunction, but the
reliefs sought in prayer (c) of the plaint have not been pressed.

7\. See Order below.

ORDER

22\. I grant an injunction in terms of prayer (a) and pass an Order in terms
of prayer (d). I also order that the defendants do pay the plaintiffs' costs
of the suit.

23\. Under Section 32 of the Indian Patents and Designs Act, I certify that
the validity of the patent came in question in this suit.

24\. Mr. Laud states that his clients will not enforce the orders passed by me
for a period of two weeks from to-day in order to enable the defendants to
consider my judgment.

25\. In accordance with Section 33 of the said Act, I direct that a copy of
this judgment be sent to the Controller of

26\. Injunction granted.

