

Delhi High Court

Mr. Piruz Khambatta & Anr vs Rajmohan Rupaji Modi And Ors. on 20 December,
2016

    
    
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                                 Reserved on : 23.11.2016
                                                Pronounced on:20.12.2016
    
    
    +      CS (OS) 3694/2014 and IA No. 6876/2015
    
    
           MR. PIRUZ KHAMBATTA & ANR                       ..... PLAINTIFFS
                        Through:      Mr. Saif Khan and Mr. Shobhit
                                     Agrawal, Advocates
    
                              Versus
    
           RAJMOHAN RUPAJI MODI AND ORS.                 .... DEFENDANTS
                        Through:       Ms. Anushree Kapadia, Advocate
    
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE R.K.GAUBA
                                   ORDER
    

1\. This civil suit was instituted in November 2014 invoking the original
civil jurisdiction of this court seeking reliefs in the nature of permanent
injunction, rendition of accounts, damages etc. it primarily being an action
arising out of infringement and passing off.

2\. The second plaintiff is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act with its registered office at 905, Atlanta Tower, Near Knowledge Academy,
Gulbai Tekra, Ahmedabad-380015 and a registered branch office at 1203, 12th
Floor, Vikrant Tower, Rajendra Place, New Delhi-110 008, plaintiff no.1 being
its Chairman.

CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 1 of 19

3\. The second plaintiff (the company) claims to have pioneered the concept of
soft drink concentrates in India having spearheaded this industry since 1972
introducing flavoured soft drinks which have been hugely popular amongst
consumers on account of affordability. It statedly ventured into the business
of restaurants under the brand name Rasna „Devil‟s workshop", its products
having been sold under the trademark "RASNA". It is stated that "RASNA" is a
rare word having all the trappings of an invented / coined word in relation to
edible products for human beings. It is the case of the plaintiffs that the
said mark "RASNA" was adopted in 1972 when no similar mark was in existence in
relation to such goods and services.

4\. The plaintiffs got the trademark "RASNA" registered for the first time on
07.10.1985 vide registration numbers 443979 (in class

30) and 443978 (in class 32). Similar registrations of the said very trademark
under other classes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22,
23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and

42) were obtained in July 2001 followed by similar registrations under other
classes, the word "RASNA" also having been joined by other descriptions for
various other products of the plaintiffs, they also having been got registered
under the Trademarks Act over the years. It is the case of the plaintiffs that
all the said registrations of the trademark are valid and have been subsisting
and continue to be in full legal force, having been renewed from time to time.

5\. The plaintiffs also claims to have made forays into foreign markets and
being the registered proprietor of the trade name / trademark "RASNA" in
various countries including Vietnam, U.K., CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 2 of 19
Indonesia, China, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, South Africa, Bangaldesh, Nigeria,
Russa, Singapore, Qatar, Tanzania, Oman, Bahrain, Kenya, Jordan, Lebanon,
Malaysia, Philippines and Myanmar, etc.

6\. It is further the case of the plaintiffs that it is the proprietor of work
bearing unique and fanciful style amounting to original artistic work within
the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Copyrights Act, 1957 in respect of RASNA
marks / labels.

7\. The suit was presented alleging cause of action to have arisen in October
2014 when the plaintiffs came to know that the defendant no.3, having been
incorporated in May 2012 under the name and style of "M/s. Rasna Hotels Pvt.
Ltd." with Mr. Rajmohan Rupaji Modi, (defendant no.1) and Ms. Lalita Rajmohan
Modi (defendant no.2), both with common address - Rasna Restaurant, Maninagar
Char Rasta, Maninagar, Ahmadabad-380008, Gujarat as its directors, were
operating a restaurant in the name and style of RASNA TWO restaurant, so
described in the array of parties with address at Shivalik- 7, Rambaug,
Maninagar, Ahmedabad-380008 (Defendant no.1).

8\. It is stated that the registered office of the company M/s. Rasna Hotels
Pvt. Ltd. is same as that of Rasna Restaurant, Mani Nagar, Char Rasta,
Maninagar, Ahmedabad-380008, Gujarat in which respect the plaintiffs had
earlier filed a civil suit, it being CS (OS) 1144/2010, titled Rasna Pvt. Ltd.
and Anr. Vs. Dipak Modi and Ors. seeking similar reliefs of permanent
injunction against infringement of trademark and passing off.

9\. It is alleged that the prominent use of the mark "RASNA" in the name of
the restaurant RASNA TWO, with insignificant suffix "Two"

CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 3 of 19

added to it, amounts to illegal and malafide infringement of the registered
trademark of the plaintiffs, it being in the nature of clear trespass of its
proprietary rights so as to gain unfair advantage of, and be detrimental to,
the description, character and repute of the plaintiffs‟ intellectual property
with the sole intention of riding upon its goodwill and reputation and thereby
derive unfair gains for themselves.

10\. For purposes of the present discussion, the averments in the plaint on
the subject of jurisdiction, as appearing in paragraphs 31-32 of the plaint,
need to be quoted in extenso :-

> ―31. The plaintiffs' are the registered proprietors of the trademark in
> issue. They have a registered branch office at New Delhi at Rasna Pvt. Ltd.,
> 1203, 12 th floor, Vikrant Tower, Rajender Place, New Delhi-110 008 and
> another office at 1506/1507, 15th Floor, Devika Tower, 6, Nehru Place, New
> Delhi-110 019 and also have an exclusive C&F Agent at New Modern Logistics,
> Khasra No.346, Near Tata Dharam Kanta, Alipur, Garhi, Delhi-36 and is thus
> carrying on business within the territorial limits of this Hon'ble Court.
> Therefore, this Hon'ble Court has the necessary territorial jurisdiction to
> adjudicate the present suit under the provisions of Section 134(2) of the
> Trade Marks Act, 1999.

> 32\. The defendants due to their aforesaid acts of infringement and passing-
> off have caused and are causing loss to the plaintiffs accruing within the
> jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. Further, large bulk of plaintiff's
> business is carried on within Delhi which is being affected in Delhi due to
> the defendants' acts and thus, this Hon'ble Court also has jurisdiction by
> virtue of Section 20 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 since a part of the
> cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court.‖
> CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 4 of 19

11\. Summons on the suit and notice on the application for ad interim
injunction (IA 24014/2014) were issued to the defendants by order dated
18.12.2014. The defendants entered appearance on 19.01.2015 and upon request
were granted extended time to file the written statement though subjected to
restraint, till further orders, against opening any further restaurant or
hotel using the trade name or trademark "RASNA".

12\. On 06.04.2015, the defendants moved, inter alia, application (IA
6876/2015) praying for return of the plaint for want of territorial
jurisdiction under Order VII Rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(CPC) mainly pointing out that both parties were located in Ahmedabad in the
state of Gujarat, their registered offices also being beyond the territorial
jurisdiction of this court and stating that no part of the cause of action has
arisen here, the plaintiffs as well as the defendants being the residents of
and carrying of business / working for gain in Ahmedabad only.

13\. The application for return of the plaint is resisted by the plaintiffs,
inter alia, referring to the provisions contained in Section 134(2) of the
Trademarks Act, 1999 stating that the place of jurisdiction is the place where
the plaintiff carries on business and pointing out, in this context, that the
plaintiff has a registered branch office at 1203, 12th Floor, Vikrant Tower,
Rajendra Place, New Delhi- 110 008, located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this court. It is the contention of the plaintiff that Section
134 of the Trademarks Act, 1999 provides for an additional forum for suing and
is not curbed in any manner by Section 20 of CPC.

CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 5 of 19

14\. Both sides have been heard at length on the prayer of the defendants for
return of the plaint under Order VII Rule 10 CPC pressed on the averment that
there is no territorial jurisdiction vested in this court to entertain this
case.

15\. The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC) contains detailed provisions
governing the subject of territorial jurisdiction as contained in Part I in
the second section captioned "place of suing". The provision contained in
Section 20 CPC appearing in the said part is relevant for the present
discussion and may be noted as under :-

> ―Section 20 \- Other suits to be instituted where defendants reside or cause
> of action arises - Subject to the limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be
> instituted in Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction-

> (a) the defendant, or each of the defendants where there are more than one,
> at the time of the commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily
> resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain; or

> (b) any of the defendants, where there are more than one, at the time of the
> commencement of the suit actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on
> business, or personally works for gain, provided that in such case either
> the leave of the Court is given, or the defendants who do not reside, or
> carry on business, or personally work for gain, as aforesaid, acquiesce in
> such institution; or

> (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. Explanation - A
> corporation shall be deemed to carry on business at its sole or principal
> office in India or, in respect of any cause of action arising at any place
> where it has also a subordinate office, at such place.‖

16\. It may be mentioned here that the provisions preceding Section 20 (i.e.
Sections 15 to 19) CPC concededly do not apply and therefore, CS(OS) 3694/2014
Page 6 of 19 "limitations" indicated therein are not attracted to the case at
hand. It is not the case of the plaintiff that any of the defendants have
engaged in any acts of commission or omission within the territorial
jurisdiction of this court as may be construed or be indicative of they
actually or voluntarily residing or carrying on business or personally working
for gain here. It is quite apparent that there is no averment made on the
basis of which any acquiescence to the institution of the suit by the
plaintiff against the defendants in this court might be inferred. Therefore
clauses (a) and (b) of Section 20 CPC quoted above have no role to play.

17\. The plaintiffs rely upon clause (c) of Section 20 CPC to argue that the
cause of action has also arisen within the jurisdiction of this court. It is
trite that accrual of cause of action is sine qua non for a suit to be
instituted or entertained. There are, however, no averments made on the
subject for purposes of supporting such contention, as may be seen from the
following pleadings (in para 30) of the plaint :

> ―30. The cause of action in the present suit first arose in the month of
> October 2014 when the plaintiffs came to know about the defendants' impugned
> restaurant under the mark RASNA TWO. The cause of action again arose when
> the plaintiffs confirmed the infringing activities of the defendants through
> an investigation. The cause of action also arose when the plaintiffs came to
> know about incorporation of the defendant no.3 company with the identical
> name Rasna. The cause of action in the present case is a continuous one and
> continues to subsist till such time as the defendants are restrained by an
> order of injunction passed by this Hon'ble Court.‖

18\. Noticeably, the explanation appended to Section 20 CPC, as quoted above
-- "corporation" also means a company [see Patel CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 7 of 19
Roadways Ltd. Vs. Pratap Trading Company, 1991 (4) SCC 270] - indicates that
in case of a company, it is deemed that it carries on business "at its sole or
principal office in India" or for purposes of "cause of action" even at a
place where it also has "a subordinate office". Having regard to the averments
made in the plaint, it not being the case of the plaintiff that the defendants
have any principal office or subordinate office within the territorial
jurisdiction of this court, the explanation appended to Section 20 cannot come
to the aid of the plaintiffs for insisting that the case has been properly
instituted invoking the jurisdiction of this court in Delhi.

19\. Against the above backdrop, the objection of the defendants to the
invocation of the jurisdiction of this court has to be examined in the light
of the provision contained in Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, which
reads as under :

> ―134. Suit for infringement, etc., to be instituted before District Court.--
> (1) No suit--

> (a) for the infringement of a registered trade mark; or

> (b) relating to any right in a registered trade mark; or

> (c) for passing off arising out of the use by the defendant of any trade
> mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trade
> mark, whether registered or unregistered, shall be instituted in any court
> inferior to a District Court having jurisdiction to try the suit.

> (2) For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1), a ―District
> Court having jurisdiction‖ shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the
> Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 8 of 19 1908) or
> any other law for the time being in force, include a District Court within
> the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the institution of
> the suit or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit or proceeding,
> or, where there are more than one such persons any of them, actually and
> voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain.

> Explanation.--For the purposes of sub-section (2), ―person‖ includes the
> registered proprietor and the registered user.‖

20\. Since the plaintiffs also refer to copyright in the marks / labels
referred to earlier, it may be noted that the Copyright Act, 1957 contains a
provision governing the issue of jurisdiction, in Section 62 which is pari
materia similar to the one quoted above and reads as under :

> ―62. Jurisdiction of court over matters arising under this Chapter.--

> (1) Every suit or other civil proceeding arising under this Chapter in
> respect of the infringement of copyright in any work or the infringement of
> any other right conferred by this Act shall be instituted in the district
> court having jurisdiction.

> (2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a ―district court having
> jurisdiction‖ shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil
> Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in force,
> include a district court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at
> the time of the institution of the suit or other proceeding, the person
> instituting the suit or other proceeding or, where there are more than one
> such CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 9 of 19 persons, any of them actually and
> voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain.‖

21\. The questions as to the interpretation of Section 134 (2) of the Trade
Marks Act, 1999 and Section 62 of the Copyrights Act, 1957 with regard to the
place where a suit can be instituted came up for consideration before the
Supreme Court in the case leading to the judgment reported as Indian
Performing Rights Society Ltd. Vs. Sanjay Dalia and Anr, 2015 10 SCC 161. The
issue had come up before the Supreme Court against the backdrop of decisions
taken by this court in two different civil suits, each involving allegations
of infringements of the plaintiffs trademark. In one of the said cases, the
head office of the plaintiff was situate at Mumbai, the averments about
infringement having been made on account of defendant running cinema halls in
Mumbai (Maharashtra) the cause of action concededly having arisen there. The
objection on account of lack of territorial jurisdiction was upheld by this
court notwithstanding the fact that the plaintiff had a branch office in Delhi
and was also carrying on business in Delhi. In the other suit also similar
factual matrix prevailed, the registered office of the plaintiff (a magazine)
being in Mumbai with a branch office, sale and circulation to subscribers in
Delhi. The learned Single Judge had upheld the contention of the defendant
holding that mere location of the branch office was not enough. But the
Division Bench in appeal had allowed certain amendment to the plaint to be
incorporated. The plaintiffs in both the said appeals contended before the
Supreme Court that Section 20 CPC was not applicable as Section 134 of Trade
Marks Act and Section 62 CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 10 of 19 (2) of the Copy Right
Act had no co-relation to the cause of action and that the suit could be filed
where the plaintiff resided or carried on his business or personally worked
for gain, inter alia, relying on the earlier decisions of the Supreme Court in
Exphar SA & Anr. vs. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. & Anr., 2004 (3) SCC 688; and
Dhodha House vs. S.K. Maingi, 2006 (9) SCC 41.

22\. Per contra, the respondents in the appeals before the Supreme Court
contended that the object of the legislature in enacting the two above-noted
provisions, the public policy and convenience to party had to be taken into
consideration and that the interpretation must be such as would avoid hardship
and absurdity, invoking Heydon's Mischief rule, commending purposive
construction and arguing that the expression "carrying on business" could not
be defined subjectively, it being the submission that the interpretation
suggested by the plaintiffs was likely to result in abuse of the above noted
provisions at the hands of multi-national corporations intending to harass the
defendants. After taking note of the backdrop against which afore-quoted
provisions in the Copyright Act and Trade Marks Act were enacted, while
accepting the argument of abuse and mischief, the court observed thus:-

> ―23. ...the common law which was existing before the provisions of law were
> passed was section 20 of the CPC. It did not provide for the plaintiff to
> institute a suit except in accordance with the provisions contained in
> section 20. The defect in existing law was inconvenience/deterrence caused
> to the authors suffering from financial constraints on account of having to
> vindicate their intellectual CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 11 of 19 property rights
> at a place far away from their residence or the place of their business. The
> said mischief or defect in the existing law which did not provide for the
> plaintiff to sue at a place where he ordinarily resides or carries on
> business or personally works for gain, was sought to be removed....

> ...But if they were residing or carrying on business or personally worked
> for gain already at such place, where cause of action has arisen, wholly or
> in part, the said provisions have not provided additional remedy to them to
> file a suit at a different place. The said provisions never intended to
> operate in that field. ...

> ...The Legislature has never intended that the plaintiff should not
> institute the suit where he ordinarily resides or at its Head Office or
> registered office or where he otherwise carries on business or personally
> works for gain where the cause of action too has arisen and should drag the
> defendant to a subordinate office or other place of business which is at a
> far distant place under the guise of the fact that the plaintiff/corporation
> is carrying on business through branch or otherwise at such other place
> also. If such an interpretation is permitted, as rightly submitted on behalf
> of the respondents, the abuse of the provision will take place. Corporations
> and big conglomerates etc. might be having several subordinate offices
> throughout the country. Interpretation otherwise would permit them to
> institute infringement proceedings at a far flung place and at unconnected
> place as compared to a place where plaintiff is carrying on their business,
> and at such place, cause of action too has arisen.‖....

> (emphasis supplied) CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 12 of 19

23\. The prime holdings of the Supreme Court in Sanjay Dalia (supra) may be
extracted as under:-

―12. ...In our opinion, the expression ―notwithstanding anything contained in
the Code of Civil Procedure‖ does not oust the applicability of the provisions
of section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure and it is clear that additional
remedy has been provided to the plaintiff so as to file a suit where he is
residing or carrying on business etc., as the case may be....‖ ―13. ...The
intendment of the Explanation to section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
that once the corporation has a subordinate office in the place where the
cause of action arises wholly or in part, it cannot be heard to say that it
cannot be sued there because it did not carry on business at that place. The
linking of the place with the cause of action in the Explanation where
subordinate office of the corporation is situated is reflective of the
intention of the Legislature and such a place has to be the place of the
filing of the suit and not the principal place of business. Ordinarily the
suit has to be filed at the place where there is principal place of business
of the corporation.‖ ―16. On a due and anxious consideration of the provisions
contained in section 20 of the CPC, section 62 of the Copyright Act and
section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, and the object with which the latter
provisions have been enacted, it is clear that if a cause of action has arisen
wholly or in part, where the plaintiff is residing or having its principal
office/carries on business or personally works for gain, the suit can be filed
at such place/s. Plaintiff(s) can also institute a suit at a place where he is
residing, carrying on business or personally works for gain de hors the fact
that the CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 13 of 19 cause of action has not arisen at a
place where he/they are residing or any one of them is residing, carries on
business or personally works for gain. However, this right to institute suit
at such a place has to be read subject to certain restrictions, such as in
case plaintiff is residing or carrying on business at a particular
place/having its head office and at such place cause of action has also arisen
wholly or in part, plaintiff cannot ignore such a place under the guise that
he is carrying on business at other far flung places also. The very intendment
of the insertion of provision in the Copyright Act and Trade Marks Act is the
convenience of the plaintiff. The rule of convenience of the parties has been
given a statutory expression in section 20 of the CPC as well. The
interpretation of provisions has to be such which prevents the mischief of
causing inconvenience to parties.‖ ―17.... Where the Corporation is having
ordinary residence/principal place of business and cause of action has also
arisen at that place, it has to institute a suit at the said place and not at
other places. The provisions of section 62 of the Copyright Act and section
134 of the Trade Marks Act never intended to operate in the field where the
plaintiff is having its principal place of business at a particular place and
the cause of action has also arisen at that place so as to enable it to file a
suit at a distant place where its subordinate office is situated though at
such place no cause of action has arisen....‖ ―18. In our opinion, in a case
where cause of action has arisen at a place where the plaintiff is residing or
where there are more than one such persons, any of them actually or
voluntarily resides CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 14 of 19 or carries on business or
personally works for gain would oust the jurisdiction of other place where the
cause of action has not arisen though at such a place, by virtue of having
subordinate office, the plaintiff instituting a suit or other proceedings
might be carrying on business or personally works for gain.‖ ―19. ... the
impediment imposed under section 20 of the CPC to a plaintiff to institute a
suit in a court where the defendant resides or carries on business or where
the cause of action wholly or in part arises, has been removed. But the right
is subject to the rider in case plaintiff resides or has its principal place
of business/carries on business or personally works for gain at a place where
cause of action has also arisen, suit should be filed at that place not at
other places where plaintiff is having branch offices etc.‖

21\. ... Section 134(2) of the Trade Marks Act is applicable to clauses (a)
and (b) of section 134(1) of the Trade Marks Act. Thus, a procedure to
institute suit with respect to section 134(1)(c) in respect of ―passing off‖
continues to be governed by section 20 of CPC.‖ (emphasis supplied)

24\. Pertinent to note here that the Supreme Court did not accept the
arguments of the plaintiffs based on earlier rulings in Exphar SA (supra) and
Dhodha House (supra) noting that in the former case the court had laid down
that Section 62 of Copyright Act prescribed an additional ground other than
the normal ground prescribed in Section 20 of CPC, while in the latter case,
the question considered was about CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 15 of 19
maintainability of a composite suit for infringement of the Copyright Act and
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, the decision being that merely by
combining the causes of action, a court which does not have the jurisdiction
to entertain the claim could not be conferred such jurisdiction.

25\. Thus, in Sanjay Dalia (supra), the Supreme Court concluded as under:-

> ―47. ... the provisions of section 62 of the Copyright Act and section 134
> of the Trade Marks Act have to be interpreted in the purposive manner. No
> doubt about it that a suit can be filed by the plaintiff at a place where he
> is residing or carrying on business or personally works for gain. He need
> not travel to file a suit to a place where defendant is residing or cause of
> action wholly or in part arises. However, if the plaintiff is residing or
> carrying on business etc. at a place where cause of action, wholly or in
> part, has also arisen, he has to file a suit at that place...‖

26\. From the above it is clear that the question of "cause of action"
continues to have a co-relation with the issue of territorial jurisdiction. If
the cause of action has arisen, wholly or in part, in passing off actions
under the Trade Marks Act, the place of institution of the suit for
appropriate relief continues to be regulated by the provisions of Section 20
CPC which includes the place where the cause of action, wholly or in part,
arises. For infringement suits, by virtue of Section 62 of the Copyright Act
and Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act, the plaintiff may bring the case in
terms of Section 20 (a) and (b) of CPC at the place where the defendant
actually and voluntarily resides or CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 16 of 19 carries on
business or personally works for gain which, in the context of a company, or
corporation, is the place where it has its sole or principal office in India.

27\. Section 134 of the Trade Marks Act and Section 62 of Copyright Act only
add to the remedy permitting the plaintiff to bring an action at a place other
than that of the defendant. Since the objective of these provisions is to sub-
serve the convenience of the plaintiff, if the cause of action has arisen,
wholly or in part, at the same place where the plaintiff resides or carries on
business, having its head office, it is not permissible for it to ignore such
a place on the pretext that it carries on business at other places as well. In
such factual background, it is incumbent that the plaintiff institutes the
suit at the place of its ordinary residence, or principal place of business,
which is also the place where the cause of action has arisen and "not at other
places". In fact, the jurisdiction of the courts at other places (i.e., the
places where the plaintiff may have subordinate/branch office so as to be
carrying on business or personally working for gain there) stands "ousted".

28\. Applying the above-noted principles to the facts and circumstances of the
case at hand, it is clear that the plaintiff has wrongly invoked the
jurisdiction of this court. The plaintiff is a company incorporated having its
registered office and the principal place of business in Ahmadabad (Gujarat).
Defendant no.3 in which the other two defendants are Directors, is also a
company incorporated with its registered office and principal office of
business in Ahmadabad (Gujarat). The cause of action on the basis of which the
CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 17 of 19 present suit has been instituted for reliefs
earlier mentioned essentially arose on account of setting up, and operations,
of the business of Rasna Two Restaurant by defendant no.3 in a locality within
the city of Ahmadabad (Gujarat). The pleadings of the plaintiff on the subject
of "cause of action" and "jurisdiction" have been extracted earlier in this
judgment. Mere facts that the plaintiff had its registered branch office,
additional office or the C&F agents in Delhi may be indicative of it carrying
on business within the territorial limits of this court, but that is not
sufficient to permit the plaintiff to bring the suit to Delhi on the facts
that have been alleged. The argument that the promotional campaign in which
the defendants have engaged for purposes of the business of their restaurant
in question even in Delhi, also by way of advertisements carried on the
internet is indicative of cause of action having arisen also in Delhi is
specious and cannot be accepted. Since the cause of action has essentially
arisen in Ahmadabad (Gujarat) where the plaintiffs have their registered
office, it being the principal place of business, per the ruling in Sanjay
Dalia (supra), this suit could have been instituted only in the court of
jurisdiction at Ahmadabad in the State of Gujarat.

29\. Pertinent to note here that in the proceedings arising out of the
plaintiffs‟ own similarly placed earlier suit against almost the same set of
defendants, it being CS(OS) No.1144/2010, to which reference has come up
earlier, it having been later re-registered as CS(Comm) No.310/2016, on an
identical application under Order VII Rule 10 CPC of the defendant, this very
plaintiff had conceded before another Single Bench of this court that this
court would not have the requisite CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 18 of 19 territorial
jurisdiction and, at its instance, the court, exercising the power under Order
VII Rule 10-A CPC, had directed, by order dated 27.04.2016, return of the
plaint while fixing a date for the parties to appear before the Principal
District and Sessions Judge, Ahmadabad (Gujarat) for the plaint to be
presented in that jurisdictional court for further proceedings in accordance
with law.

30\. Since this court is of the view that the case at hand was wrongly
instituted here and that the court at Ahmadabad (Gujarat) would be the
appropriate court of jurisdiction, it being the principal place of business of
the plaintiffs (as indeed of the defendants) as also the place where the cause
of action has arisen and consequently the plaint is liable to be returned in
terms of Rule 10 of Order VII CPC, the plaintiffs, through counsel, was
informed accordingly, in response to which the learned counsel submitted that
the plaintiff does not wish to avail of the provision contained in Rule 10A of
Order VII CPC for the plaint to be returned so as to be presented again in the
court referred to earlier. In this view, no opportunity for moving an
application under Order 7 Rule 10 A (2) CPC having been sought or availed by
the plaintiff, it is directed that the plaint be returned under Order VII Rule
10 CPC for being presented to the appropriate court of jurisdiction.

31\. Interim orders passed by this court earlier are vacated. The proceedings
in the suit and the applications filed therein in this court stand disposed of
in above terms.

(R.K. GAUBA) JUDGE DECEMBER 20, 2016 yg/vk CS(OS) 3694/2014 Page 19 of 19

