

Bombay High Court

Commissioner Of Income-Tax, ... vs Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co. ... on 14
February, 1979

Equivalent citations: (1979) 13 CTR Bom 209, 1980 123 ITR 538 Bom, 1979 2
TAXMAN 149 Bom

Author: Chandurkar

Bench: Desai, M Chandurkar

JUDGMENT Chandurkar, J.

1\. This reference raises a question relating to the nature of payments made
by the assessee-company to two foreign companies in accordance with two
agreements dated October 3, 1955, and April 11, 1956. The assessee-company,
M/s. Tata Locomotive and Engineering Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as
"Telco") had entered into an agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz, according to
which, the assessee was to establish a factory for the manufacture in India of
Daimler Benz trucks and other automotive products upon the terms and
conditions mentioned in the agreement. The assessee-company was already
manufacturing locomotives and under the agreement, M/s. Daimler Benz was to
render certain services to Telco. It is not necessary to refer extensively to
the terms and conditions with regard to the services and assistance which were
agreed to be rendered by M/s. Daimler Benz. The summary thereof as given in
the affidavit filed by the director-in-charge of Telco before the ITO the
correctness of which is not disputed on behalf of the revenue, is as follows :

"(a) Technical advice, information and assistance as may be reasonably
required by Telco concerning the layout of additional factory buildings, etc.,
and selection and arrangement of plant, equipment, etc., for setting up the
automotive division at Tatanagar.

(b) Grant to Telco on an exclusive basis for India the manufacturing rights,
together with patents, patent rights, secret and other processes relating to
the manufacture of automotive products.

(c) Supply of drawing and designs and full technical information required for
the manufacture of automotive products.

(d) Communicate all technical information relating to improvements and
developments in the manufacturing process.

(e) Supply of all jigs, tools and fixtures required by Telco (or at the option
of Telco, drawing or designs of such jigs, tools and fixtures) for the
manufacture of automotive products.

(f) Supply of Telco from tome to tome such parts and components as are
required to be incorporated in the manufacture of automotive products.

(g) Use of the name and trade marks of Daimler Benz during the currency of the
agreement.

(h) Until such time as suitably qualified and trained Indian technical
personnel is available, Daimler Benz shall put at the disposal of Telco to the
extent they are able to do so, technical personnel required for the operation
of the automotive division.

(i) Provide training facilities for training of Indian personnel in their
German plants and establishments."

2\. In consideration of these services the payments to be made to M/s. Daimler
Benz were as follows :

(a) During the period of the first five years of commercial production of
Daimler Benz trucks and during the first five years of commercial production
of each of the other automotive products of Daimler Benz subsequently
manufactured in Telco works in terms of the agreement a royalty on :

1% of the Indian net sales proceeds calculated on an ex works basis (excluding
tyres, batteries and other items not included in the export price of the
entire vehicle c.k.d., f.o. b. continental north sea port unpacked) where the
Telco manufacturing proportion does not exceed 50%; and 1 1/2% of the Indian
net sales calculated on an ex works basis (excluding tyres, batteries and
other items not included in the export price of the entire vehicle c.k.d.,
f.o.b. continental north sea port unpacked) when the Telco manufacturing
proportion exceeds 50%; and

(b) sum equal to 7 1/2% of the annual net profits of the automotive division
of Telco as certified by Telco's auditors."

3\. It may, however, be mentioned that apart from above terms, the agreement
also provided that the Telco could use the name and trade mark of M/s.
Mercedes Benz in such form, design or manner as may be mutually agreed upon.
It is also provided under the agreement that M/s. Daimler Benz were to take
ordinary shares worth Rs. 80 lakhs and this share holding could not be
disposed of by them within 10 years of the agreement. The period of the
agreement was for 15 years commencing from April 1, 1954, but any of the
parties could terminate the agreement by six months' notice in case of a
serious breach of its terms and conditions. In what circumstances the breach
was to be treated as serious was also specified. It was also specifically
provided that after March 31, 1969, on which date the agreement was to come to
an end, the Telco was entitled to continue its manufacture, but that they
should cease to use the trade name of Tata_Mercedes Benz. Since the learned
counsel for the revenue has based some argument on this particular clause, we
reproduce it as followd :

"36. On the expiry or termination of this agreement for any cause Telco shall
have the right to continue in the filed of automotive manufacture with the
benefit of all technical information and experience acquired by it in terms of
this agreement, but shall not be entitled to use any trade mark or name
licensed to it as provided for clause 24(d)."

4\. The assessee had also entered into another agreement with a Belgian
company by name Societe Anonyme Usiness Emile Henricot (hereinafter referred
to as "M/s. Henricot") as the Telco desired to secure competent technical
advice, information and assistance in Europe to bring the Telco steel foundry
when completed into full and efficient operation as early as possible and to
design and manufacture therein on an economical and efficient basis the
maximum possible tonnage of sound steel castings of all sizes, shapes and
specifications, including particularly heavy and complicated casting for the
steam locomotives building industry. M/s. Henricot has long and varied
experience in the design, manufacture and sale of steel castings and was able
and willing to provide the technical advice, information and assistance
required by Telco and this was to be done under the terms and conditions
provided in the agreement. The nature of the services and assistance which
M/s. Henricot could be called upon to render are briefly as follows :

(a) Grant and communicate to Telco on an exclusive basis for India technical
knowledge, information, advice, services and facilities as may be required for
bringing the Telco Steel Foundry into full effective and efficient operation
and fit for manufacturing steel casting of all sizes, shape and
specifications, and for developing, manufacturing and selling on the most
efficient and economical basis the maximum possible tonnage of steel casting
made in all such designs, sizes and qualities as are in demand.

(b) Provide complete and detailed drawings, designs, date, information and
advice to the best of Henricot's own practice, experience and knowledge of the
most efficient methods and process relating to, (i) organisation control and
supervision of all operations in the Telco Steel Foundry for the design,
manufacture and sale of steel castings, (ii) specifications of sand and raw
materials and their treatment, and (iii) most modern and efficient production
methods and processes.

(c) Methods of estimating production costs and preparing quotations.

(d) Utilisation of scrap and waste products.

(e) Provide facilities for training in Henricot's Belgian plant and
establishments of such Indian employees of Telco as may be deputed by Telco
for such training.

(f) Communicate all technical information regarding improvements and
development relating to the design and manufacture of steel castings.

(g) To start the operation of the Telco Steel Foundry and to bring it into
effective commissioner. Put at the disposal of Telco fully qualified and
experienced personnel of Henricot for such periods as may be considered
necessary.

(h) To supply Telco on terms and conditions to be settled by mutual agreement
the maximum possible tonnage of steel castings for Telco's own requirements."

5\. The payments to be made in consideration of the services to be rendered by
M/s. Henricot as provided in the agreement dated April 11, 1956, were as
follows :

"(a) A sum of two million, five hundred thousand (2,500,000) Belgian Francs in
each of the first five years of the agreement to be payable in four equal
quarterly instalments, the first such instalment to be paid on the 1st day of
September, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-five and thereafter :

(b) a sum of five million, one hundred and sixty-six thousand six hundred and
sixty-six (5,166,666) Belgian Francs in each of the three years, following the
first five years of the agreement to be payable in four equal quarterly
instalments, the first such instalment to be paid on the 1st day of September,
one thousand nine hundred and sixty."

6\. In the assessment year 1959-60, the payments made by Telco to M/s. Daimler
Benz and M/s. Henricot were as follows :

1\. Ratio in share of profits paid to M/s. Daimler Benz Rs. 29,59,608.

2\. Technical fees to M/s. Henricot Rs. 2,99,158.

7\. The agreement with M/s. Henricot provided for facilities for training in
Henricot's Belgian plant and establishments of such Indian employees of Telco
as may be deputed by Telco for such training. The total number of trainees was
not to exceed 30 and the duration of the training of anyone trainee was not to
exceed two years. The training of Telco's Indian personnel by M/s. Henricot
was to cover the entire field of designing, producting, finishing, machining
and selling steel castings, including drawing, estimating, production,
planning, selection, treatment of sand, raw materials, pattern making, fore
making, melting, puring, gating, risoring, laboratory control machining,
casting methods, etc. The salaries and expenses of Telco's Indian personnel
sent for training at the factories of M/s. Henricot had to be borne by Telco.
The sum spent on training expenses in the assessment year in question was Rs.
1,69,926.

8\. In assessment proceedings for the assessment year 1959-60, Telco claimed
this expenditure as revenue expenditure. Before the ITO concerned a detailed
statement about the nature of services rendered by the foreign companies was
made by Mr. Moolgaonkar, who was the director-in-charge of the Telco. The ITO,
however, declined to treat the above expenditure as revenue expenditure and
treated it as capital expenditure.

9\. In the appeal filed by the assessee, however, the AAC treated the above
expenditure as revenue expenditure. He, therefore, deleted the addition made
by the ITO with regard to Rs. 29,59,608 and Rs. 2,99,158, being the payments
made to M/s. Daimler Benz and M/s. Henricot respectively. He also held that
the training expenses claimed by the assessee were allowable.

10\. The ITO then filed an appeal against the order of the AAc before the
Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. The Tribunal considered the terms of the
agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz and M/s. Henricot and found that all that the
assessee got by the agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz was technical assistance
and knowledge in regard to truck manufacture and the right to use its trade
name for a period of 15 years. The Tribunal took the view that at best in the
circumstances, "this will amount to user of technical knowledge and
information given by them for which they had to pay". With regard to the user
of the trade name the Tribunal took the view that it was not an acquisition of
any proprietary right in regard to the trade name, but it was the permission
given to the assessee to utilise the name for a particular period. According
to the Tribunal, it was really a case of fees being paid for the user of the
technical know-how as well as the trade name. In respect of the payments made
to M/s. Henricot, the Tribunal found that no capital asset as such had been
acquired from M/s. Henricot and that under the agreement with M/s. Henricot
the assessee had acquired merely the right to trade for the purpose of
carrying on its business upon the technical knowledge of M/s. Henricot in
regard to the foundry business. This according to the Tribunal, could not be
said to be acquisition of any capital asset, but that it was mere user of it.
Therefore, according to the Tribunal, the moneys paid to M/s. Henricot, was
also revenue expenses. With regard to the amount spent in training Telco
personnel with M/s. Henricot, the Tribunal took the view that the expenditure
was incurred not for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or capital
of enduring nature to the business but was made for running the business with
a view to produce more products and with a view to run the business more
efficiently so as to produce higher profits. Thus, the expenditure incurred in
respect of all the three items referred to above was held allowable as revenue
expenditure. Out of this order of the Tribunal, the following question has
been referred at the instance of the revenue :

"Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the expenditure
in question has been rightly allowed as revenue expenditure ?"

11\. Mr. Joshi appearing on behalf of the revenue has contended that the
payments made to M/s. Daimler Benz and M/s. Henricot, if properly understood
in the light of the terms of the relevant agreements, would be clearly in the
nature of capital expenditure and our attention was particularly invited to
certain terms of the agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz and the preamble
thereof. It is contended that the agreement of M/s. Daimler Benz showed that
Telco had to establish the manufacture in India of Daimler Benz motor trucks
and that an automotive division was agreed to be set up at the Telco works at
Tatanager. Thus, according to Mr. Joshi, the payments made must be related to
the initial setting up of the business of manufacturing of Daimler Benz Motor
trucks, since the advice to be given by M/s. Daimler Benz and the technical
assistance was in respect of setting up such business. Reliance was also
placed on clause (3) of the agreement, which has referred to the fact that
along with drawings and designs and full technical information to be made
available by M/s. Daimler Benz "Daimler Benz will grant to Telco on an
exclusive basis for India the manufacturing rights together with patents,
patent rights, secret and other processes relating to manufacturing programmes
for the time being in force under this agreement."

12\. Reference was then made to the provisions of cls. (17) and (18) which
provide for the manner of payment. Clauses (17) refers to payment of royalty
and prescribes the rate of royalty. Clauses (18) provides that apart from the
royalty provided under clause (17), Telco shall pay to M/s. Daimler Benz a
certain percentage of the annual net profits of the automotive division of
Telco as certified by Telco's auditors. It was contended relying on this
clause that in view of the specific provision relating to royalty the
expenditure incurred by Telco was clearly of capital nature. Stress was
further laid on the provision relating to the duration of the agreement and
the provision thereof in clause 34 of the agreement. Under that clause, it was
provided that the agreement shall operate for an initial period of fifteen
years commencing from April 1, 1954, and ending with March 31, 1969. Sub-
clause (2) of clause 34, however, provided that any of the parties may
terminate the agreement by giving six months' previous notice in writing in
case of a serious breach of its terms and conditions by the other party or
parties to the agreement. Under what circumstances a serious breach of the
agreement thereof deemed to have been committed were also specified, but a
reference to that part of the clause is not material to the disposal of the
reference. Another clause on which particular reliance was placed was clause
36, which provided that on expiry or termination of the agreement for any case
Telco shall have the right to continue in the field of automotive manufacture
with the benefit of all the technical information and experience acquired by
it in terms of this agreement, but shall not be entitled to use any trade mark
or name licensed to it as provided for in clause 24(d).

13\. Relying on the stipulated period of 15 years and the provisions enabling
Telco to continue the use of technical information and experience acquired by
it under the agreement even after the agreement has been terminated, it was
contended that since the benefit of the technical know-how made available by
M/s. Daimler Benz could be utilised by Telco even after the period of
agreement was over, and since know-how and technical knowledge could be drawn
upon for a long period of 15 years, Telco must be deemed to have acquired a
capital asset, i.e., technical know-how, and, therefore, the expenditure
incurred in the form of payments made to M/s. Daimler Benz. Similar argument
was advanced in respect of agreement with M/s. Henricot, though the period of
agreement with M/s. Henricot was nine years. The argument in substance in
respect of both the agreements remains the same, viz., acquiring technical
know-how amounted to acquisition of capital asset or in any case benefit of
enduring character and, therefore, the payments made under the agreement were
in the nature of capital expenditure.

14\. The crucial question that will have to be determined on the material in
this case having regard not to the terms of the two agreements but also to the
statement of Mr. Moolgaonkar made before the ITO and the affidavit filed
before the ITON, as to whether the expenditure incurred to the company by way
of payments to M/s. Daimler Benz and M/s. Henricot were so related to the
carrying on or the conduct of the business of the assessee that they should be
regarded as integral part of the profit earning process or whether the
assessee had really acquired any capital asset or benefit of a permanent
character. At the outset it must be pointed out that merely because payment
provided for under the agreement is referred to as royalty, that nomenclature
will not be conclusive of the question as to whether a capital asset was
acquired or not. It cannot be said that in every case payment of royalty
results in acquisition of capital asset. Whether payments made in the nature
of royalty as provided for under a particular agreement should be treated as
revenue expenditure or capital expenditure will depend upon the nature of the
return which is got in lieu of that payment. We must, therefore, first direct
our attention to the question as to what was the nature of the know-how and
the technical information made available by the two companies to Telco. This
is not a case where Telco was setting up its business for the first time. It
was already carrying on manufacture of locomotives and as such it was already
in manufacturing business. Mr. Moolgaonkar had filed before the ITO affidavits
explaining the nature of the services rendered by the two companies and these
affidavits are annexed to the statement of the case as annexs."C" and "C-1".
The affidavit in respect of services rendered by M/s. Daimler Benz is
annex."C" and the affidavit in respect of services rendered by M/s. Henricot
is annex."C-1".

15\. In respect of both these companies it is stated by Mr. Moolgaonkar that
no patent or patent rights or licences have been transferred or assigned to
Telco by either M/s. Henricot or M/s. Daimler Benz. With regard to the
services rendered by M/s. Daimler Benz, it is stated in the affidavit that
M/s. Daimler Benz have not given any technical advice, information or
assistance to Telco concerning the layout of the factory and buildings,
extensions, etc., for the automotive division and the entire work of designing
and erection of the various factory buildings, etc., and the lay out of the
automotive division were carried out by Telco's own personnel. It is then
stated that the plant and machinery required for the automotive division were
and are supplied to Telco by M/s. Daimler Benz on f.o.b. basis, as between
principal and principal, i.e., buyer and seller, and those assets are
separately paid for, and no part of the consideration payable under the
agreement is attributable to this service. It is further stated that jigs,
tools and fixtures as well as parts and components required by Telco for the
manufacture of automotive products were and are supplied to Telco by M/s.
Daimler Benz on f.o.b. basis as between principal and principal, i.e., buyer
and seller, and these goods are separately paid for. No part of the
consideration payable under the agreement is attributable to to this service.
Mr. Moolgaonkar further states, "M/s. Daimler Benz have not transferred or
assigned or imparted any technical know-how or secret or other processes to
Telco. The manufacturing techniques and processes used by Telco are normally
those adopted by automobile or engineering concerns of repute and there is,
therefore, no special know-how or secret or other processes involved in the
processes used by Telco." It is further stated :

"Drawing and designs and technical information supplied to Telco are also
those that could normally be supplied by any automobile or engineering concern
of repute, and technical personnel put at the disposal of Telco are employed
by Telco under contract of service for specific period and remunerated by
Telco for their services as full-time employees of Telco."

16\. The ITO has questioned Mr. Moolgaonkar in detail further about the nature
of the services rendered by M/s. Daimler Benz, and particularly question No. 9
was directed to find out what were the services for which payments were made
to M/s. Daimler Benz. We have already referred to the statements of Mr.
Moolgaonkar in the affidavit, where he has positively stated that the payments
made to M/s. Daimler Benz were not in respect of any advice regarding the
layout of the factory buildings or for purchase of plant and machinery from
M/s. Daimler Benz. These services were grouped in group "A" and group "B" in
note No. 1 which is a part of the statement. Group "A" refers to services
which were to be performed but not performed by M/s. Daimler Benz. Group "B"
refers to services for which full payment has been made separately by Telco.
Then under group "C" the following services have been stated :

"Groups :

Services falling neither in group A nor group B

(i) Selection and arrangement of plant and equipment for setting up the auto
division at Tatanagar.

(ii) Grant to Telco on an exclusive basis in India, the manufacturing rights.

(iii) Supply of drawings and designs and full technical information required
for manufacture of auto products.

(iv) Communication of all facts relating to improvements. Development in the
manufacturing process.

(v) Use of the name and trade marks of Daimler Benz, during the currency of
the agreement.

(vi) Provision of training facilities."

17\. In reply to a question by the ITO, Mr. Moolgaonkar has positively stated
that the payments made to M/s. Daimler Benz particularly related to use of the
name and trade marks of M/s. Daimler Benz during the currency of the agreement
and provision of training facilities. He further made a statement before the
ITO, the correctness of which has not been disputed before us, that the main
reason for entering into collaboration agreement was to secure training
facilities and the right to use a well known trade name. He further stated
that no proprietary right is claimed by Telco in the drawings, designs and
technical data and processes and that the drawing is merely a shop language of
what needs to be done for production of the concerned part and that it was for
technical guidance. He positively told ITO that he considered the training as
one of fundamental importance.

18\. With regard to the agreement with M/s. Henricot Mr. Moolgaonkar stated
"by and large, we were furnished with all technical information and training
facilities necessary to enable us to operate the foundry." The reason for a
long term agreement with M/s. Henricot was given by Mr. Moolgaonkar to the ITO
as follows :

"At that time there were no mechanised steel foundries in India. We had
necessarily to obtain assistance from abroad. Further the institutions do not
teach the special techniques for production of large castings. We tried to
obtain technical assistance from the U.K. but ultimately we entered into an
arrangement with Henricot."

19\. From the statement of Mr. Moolgaonkar, it appears that Telco tried to
take assistance from General Steel Castings, a company in U.S.A. but "due to
devaluation, etc.", they could not proceed further as the costs became
prohibitive.

20\. We are in this case not called upon to construe in abstract the recitals
in an agreement of foreign collaboration, but we have positive evidence in
this case with regard to the services availed of by Telco. It is in the light
of the statements made in the affidavit and before the ITO that we have to
correctly ascertain the nature of the benefit which was derived by Telco as a
result of the agreements in question. If the statements made by Mr.
Moolgaonkar are considered in their proper perspective, it is obvious that,
according to him, the payments made to M/s. Daimler Benz were in essence for
permission to use name and trade mark of M/s. Daimler Benz during the currency
of the agreements and making provision for training facilities. When Telco
started producing trucks and they entered into agreement with M/s. Daimler
Benz they obtained a licence to use the name of M/s. Daimler Benz for the
trucks which were manufactured by Telco. The substantial benefit under the
agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz was that M/s. Daimler Benz permitted their
trade mark to be used during the currency of the agreement and facilities were
given for training personnel belonging to Telco. Obtaining information
relating to the technical know-how and having well trained personnel necessary
for the manufacture of trucks was essential if trucks of good quality had to
be produced and no company would allow its name to be lent to a product of
another company, unless it is satisfied that the product which is sold under
the name of such company, was of the required quality. Telco would also be
interested in producing trucks of good quality which could be sold by the
trade name of M/s. Daimler Benz and it, therefore, appears to us that Mr.
Moolgaonkar was right when he stated before the ITO that the payment made
under the agreement with M/s. Daimler Benz in effect was payment made for the
use of the use of the name and trade mark of M/s. Daimler Benz and making
provision for training facilities. The period of the agreement was to run out
after 15 years. Telco was, however, not going to stop manufacturing after that
and if production of quality trucks was to continue, Telco was bound to see
that its own personnel were properly trained with the know-how and possessed
all the technical information necessary for the manufacture of a quality
product. If the transaction embodied in the agreement is looked at
commercially it looks to us as nothing more than obtaining the services of a
consultancy so far as the supply of know-how is concerned, and in the nature
of a licence to use the trade name so far as permission to use the trade name
of M/s. Daimler Benz was concerned. The payment was not, therefore, for
acquisition of any capital asset. Though the production of trucks was to be
continued by Telco even after the expiry of agreement, the use of the trade
mark of M/s. Daimler Benz could not be used by Telco as the licence to use the
name had come to an end. So far as the payments made under the agreement were
concerned, they were to be made partly in the nature of royalty and partly in
the nature of share in the profit but they were only intended to secure the
use of the trade name and acquire necessary know-how. Technical know-how can
in no sense of the term be called a tangible asset. Mr. Moolgaonkar has
clearly stated that in this case no patent rights were granted. It is not as
if know-how in a technical production remains stagnant and remains the same.
In the present day conditions of technological and scientific development, all
technical know-how changes from time to time and with it the production
methods also change. In our view, acquiring technical know-how and technical
advice for the time being, cannot in these days of technological and
scientific development and consequent change in production techniques, be
treated as a capital asset.

21\. Same would be true even in respect of the agreement, with M/s. Henricot.
Strictly speaking so far as the payment made to M/s. Henricot is concerned, it
would stand on a much better footing as a revenue expenditure than in the case
of M/s. Daimler Benz. There was no question of M/s. Henricot allowing the
assessee to use the company's own trade name. Mr. Moolgaonkar has clearly
stated that all that they got was special technique for production of large
castings, which information could not be available from U.K. and arrangements
with U.S.A. could not be made because of devaluation.

22\. Mere length of the period of the agreement is not of much consequence, if
the nature of the advice made available is such that it cannot be called a
capital asset. The agreement itself could have been terminated by any party
before the expiry of the term on any of the grounds stated in the agreement.
There is no doubt nothing in the agreement which disables Telco from using the
technique which it had mastered after getting the know-how from either M/s.
Daimler Benz or M/s. Henricot. It is not possible for us to accept the
argument that merely because a company, which has entered into a contract with
regard to know-how, is entitled to use that know-how even after the agreement
has expired, the benefit must be said to be of an enduring character.
Agreement of foreign collaboration, where foreign know-how is availed of in
lieu of payment, is in our view, in substance, a transaction of acquiring the
necessary technical information with regard to technique of production.
Instead of employing persons having knowledge of those techniques and
utilising their knowledge, what is done is that technical know-how is acquired
under a collaboration agreement. The fact that the same information is
continuously used whether in the same form or in improved form will,
therefore, not be relevant in deciding whether technical know-how obtained
under such an agreement is a capital asset. Technical know-how made available
by a party to such an agreement does not stand on the same footing as
protected rights under a registered patent. There is no property right in a
know-how which can be transferred just as it is, in a limited sense, in a
patent. In any case a party making the know-how available can hardly make any
attempt to retrieve all the information supplied after the other party to the
agreement has fully equipped itself and made itself familiar with the
technical information and know-how supplied. The fact that the production can
still be continued after the expiry of the agreement is, therefore, in our
view, wholly immaterial for deciding whether such know-how can be treated as a
capital asset.

23\. In our view, the present case will be governed by the law laid down by
the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Ciba of India Ltd. [1968] 69 ITR 692.
In that case, the Supreme Court held that the assessee acquired under the
agreement merely the right to draw, for the purpose of carrying on its
business as a manufacturer and dealer of pharmaceutical products, upon the
technical knowledge of the Swiss company for a limited period, and by making
that technical knowledge available the Swiss company did not part with any
asset of its business, nor did the assessee acquire any asset or advantage of
an enduring nature for the benefit of its business. Construing the agreement
in that case, it was found by the Supreme Court that the following facts which
emerged from the agreement clearly showed that the secret processes were not
sold by the Swiss company to the assessee; (a) the licence was for a period of
five years, liable to be terminated in certain eventualities even before the
expiry of the period; (b) the object of the agreement was to obtain the
benefit of the technical assistance for running the business; (c) the licence
was granted to the assessee subject to rights actually granted or which may be
granted after the date of the agreement to other persons; (d) the assessee was
expressly prohibited from divulging confidential information to third parties
without the consent of the Swiss company; (e) there was no transfer of the
fruits of research once for all; the Swiss company which was continuously
carrying on research had agreed to make it available to the assessee; and (f)
the stipulated payment was recurrent dependent upon the sales, and only for
the period of the agreement. Except for circumstances mentioned in (c) and (e)
all the circumstances referred to by the Supreme Court are also present in the
instant case before us. Applying the ratio of the decision in Ciba of India
Ltd.'s case , in our view, it is apparent that the assessee-company had not
acquired any asset or advantage of enduring nature for the benefit of its
business.

24\. We may incidentally point out that we have considered in detail the
decision in Ciba of India Ltd. in Antifriction Bearings Corporation Ltd. v.
[1978] 114 ITR 335 (Bom) and we have held in that case that since in the
payment for taking advantage of know-how from a foreign firm, there is no
transfer or acquisition of an asset, it must follow that any expenditure
incurred, in connection with an exploratory mission or a visit intended to
finalise the collaboration agreement, in the form of travelling expenses, will
also have to be treated as revenue expenditure.

25\. We may refer to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in CIT v.
Hindusthan General Electrical Corporation Ltd. [1971] 81 ITR 243, where the
Calcutta High Court has taken the view that there is no property right in
"know-how" that can be transferred, even in the limited sense that there is a
legally protected property interest in a secret process. It was pointed out in
that case that special knowledge or skill can indeed ripen into a form of
property in the fields of commerce and industry, as in copyright, trademarks
and designs and patents and where such property is parted with for money, what
is received can be, but will not necessarily be, a receipt on capital account.
It was also pointed out in that case that royalties, usually are periodical
payments for continuous enjoyment of certain benefits under a contract, but in
every case payment of royalty is not a capital expenditure. It was held in
that case that the payments were intimately linked up with the manufacturing
activities of the assessee and not with the capital values of the assets that
the assessee would acquire. They could not, strictly speaking, be said to be
the purchase price of the assets. That was a case of foreign principals
imparting their know-how and it was held that though the assessee's foreign
principals would be imparting their "know-how" to the assessee for a reward,
that is nothing more than a teacher selling his knowledge or skill to his
pupil and the assessee's foreign principals were merely supplying technical
information to enable the assessee to carry on business in terms of the
agreement.

26\. Mr. Joshi has, however, relied on a decision of the Madras High Court in
CIT v. Southern Structurals Ltd. [1977] 110 ITR 890. The assessee in that case
had entered into an agreement with a British company not only for the foreign
company's participation in the equity capital of the assessee-company but also
for getting technical assistance which took the shape of the foreign company
giving the assessee-company all inventions and designs relating to railway
wagons, whether patented or not, owned by the British company. The British
company was required to give full technical information in relation to the
design and manufacture of any existing type of railway wagon which may be of
assistance to the assessee. The parties were under mutual obligations to
communicate important matters in the design or manufacture of any particular
type of wagon and also for the purpose of training the employees of the
assessee-company in the works of the foreign company. Clause 4 of the
agreement provided that after the expiration of the agreement the assessee
would be free from any further obligation to pay any amount to the foreign
company while the assessee-company would have the continued use free of
charges of all information made available by the foreign company during the
period of the validity of the agreement. The Madras High Court on these facts
held that the assessee had acquired an enduring benefit under the agreement
and to that extent the amount paid was clearly capital in nature. The reason,
according to the Madras High Court, was that though under clause 2 of the
agreement there was a certain amount of limitation on the assessee not being
in a position to assign the benefits it obtained under the agreement, that
would not take the case out of the ratio of the decision in Fenner Woodroff &
Co. Ltd. v. CIT [1976] 102 ITR 665 (Mad).

27\. Now, in the case of Fenner Woodroffe & Co. Ltd., there was an agreement
with the foreign company to make available the technical date relating to the
manufacture of leather belting and also to permit the use of such technical
date for the purpose of manufacture of the products. Certain amounts were paid
to the foreign company in pursuance of this agreement and these payments were
claimed as deductions for the respective assessment years. The High Court held
in that case that there was no limitation in the agreement as to its
endurability and the assessee could use the technical data with it as if it
were their own asset, and, therefore, the amounts paid are not admissible as
business expenditure. While referring to the decision in Ciba Company's case ,
the High Court pointed out that on the termination of the agreement Ciba
Pharma in that case was required to return to Ciba Basle all copies of
information, scientific data or materials sent to it, and on this stipulation
the Madras High Court observed that the use of the knowledge or practical
experience which Ciba Pharma got by knowing the technical know-how thus
limited only for the purpose of conduct of the business during the period of
five years provided for in the agreement. From this stipulation, the Madras
High Court seems to have drawn an inference that there was a prohibition
against the use of know-how after the period of the agreement, an inference
which does not appear to be justified on the terms of the agreement in the
case of Ciba of India Ltd. The Madras High Court in Fenner Woodroffe & Co.'s
case [1976] 102 ITR 665 (Mad) observed with reference to the agreement in that
case that though the agreement is stated to be in force for a period of ten
years there was no prohibition of the use of the technical data by the
assessee after the period of ten years nor was there any clause requiring the
assessee to return the technical date as in Ciba's case implying that the
benefit under the agreement is to be enjoyed only during the period of the
agreement. The decision in Fenner Woodroffe & Co.'s case [1976] 102 ITR 665
(Mad), therefore, seems to have turned mainly on the consideration that there
was no bar against use of the technical know-how beyond the period of
agreement and that was why that court was persuaded to hold that the assessee
had acquired an asset or an advantage of enduring benefit to his trade. With
great respect to the learned judges who decided that case, it is not possible
for us to follow the view taken in that decision.

28\. As already pointed out by us from the mere fact that the assessee is
entitled to us the know-how even after the expiry of the period of the
agreement, it cannot be held that the assessee had acquired a benefit of an
enduring character because the know-how does not remain stagnant. We have also
pointed out that in essence the agreements in question were for acquiring
technical knowledge regarding methods of production and in addition in case of
M/s. Daimler Benz the payment was for the use of the trade name. The decision
in the case of Southern Structurals Ltd. [1977] 110 ITR 890 (Mad) merely
followed the decision in Fenner Woodroffe & Co.'s case [1976] 102 ITR 665
(Mad). Since we are inclined to dissent from the view taken in that case, it
is not possible to hold on the strength of the authority in that case that the
expenditure in question in respect of any of the agreements in question must
be treated as capital expenditure.

29\. So far as the expenditure incurred on training of the employees of Telco
is concerned, it is obvious that that expenditure was incurred with a view to
give training to persons so as to achieve maximum and efficient production.
The expenditure incurred on such training was undoubtedly closely related to
the profit earning process, and, therefore, in our view, that would always be
allowable as revenue expenditure. In this view of the matter, the question
referred to us must be answered in the affirmative and in favour of the
assessee.

30\. The assessee to get the costs of this reference from the revenue.

