

Punjab-Haryana High Court

Commissioner Of Income Tax vs Motorola India Ltd. on 3 October, 2007

Equivalent citations: (2008) 215 CTR P H 158

Author: M Kumar

Bench: M Kumar, A K Mittal

JUDGMENT M.M. Kumar, J.

1\. This order shall dispose of IT Appeal Nos. 44 and 45 of 2005 as common
questions of law and facts are involved. However, facts are being referred
from IT Appeal No. 44 of 2005. The appeal has been filed under Section 260A of
the IT Act, 1961 (for brevity, the Act'), against order dt. 29th June, 2004,
passed by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore (for brevity, the
Tribunal'), in ITA No. 136/Bang/2000, in respect of asst. yr. 1996-97. It is
claimed that the following substantial questions of law would arise for
determination of this Court:

(a) Whether the Tribunal has erred in law in holding that the order of the AO
was not prejudicial and erroneous to the interest of the Revenue wherein the
relief under Section 80HHC of the IT Act, 1961, was allowed on the total
income without adjusting the brought forward loss and unabsorbed depreciation
of the earlier years ?

(b) Whether the Tribunal has erred in law in vacating the order under Section
263 of the IT Act, 1961 ?

2\. Brief facts of the case are that on 29th Nov., 1996 the assessee filed its
return of income before the AO-cum-Jt. CIT (Asstt.), Special Range-I,
Bangalore, declaring its total income of Rs. 3,50,30,300, in respect of asst.
yr. 1996-97 (A-I). Thereafter a revised return was filed on 12th Dec, 1996 in
which declared income was the same. The return was processed under Section
143(1)(a) of the Act and after taking up the case for scrutiny a notice under
Section 143(2) of the Act was issued. The assessee determined its income after
adjusting the brought forward loss and unabsorbed depreciation of earlier
years amounting to Rs. 16,76,69,984 as against the current income of Rs.
82,16,36,146. The assessee also claimed deduction under Section 80HHC of the
Act out of its income of Rs. 44,52,56,153 earned from export business. On 31st
March, 1999, assessment under Section 143(3) of the Act was completed and the
AO disallowed exchange loss of Rs. 71,24,140 and assessed the income at Rs.
4,21,54,440.

3\. On 30th Dec, 1999, the CIT, Bangalore, passed an order under Section 263
of the Act, and held that relief under Section 80HHC of the Act can be allowed
on the profits of current year as reduced by the carried forward business loss
and unabsorbed depreciation. It was further observed that the AO has
calculated the deduction under Section 80HHC of the Act before setting off the
unabsorbed loss and depreciation of earlier years against the business profit
of current year, which resulted in excess relief to the assessee. The order of
the AO was found to be erroneous and against the interest of the Revenue.
Accordingly, the CIT directed the AO to modify the assessment. On 9th March,
2000, the AO passed fresh order and deduction of Rs. 36,10,68,000 as against
Rs. 44,52,56,153, under Section 80HHC of the Act was allowed.

4\. The assessee filed appeals before the Tribunal at Bangalore against the
order dt. 30th Dec, 1999 passed by the CIT under Section 263 of the Act as
well as before the CIT(A) against the order dt. 9th March, 2000 passed by the
AO. On 30th May, 2002, the CIT(A) dismissed the appeal of the assessee by
observing that the AO has acted in accordance with the directions given by the
CIT, Bangalore. Against the order dt. 30th May, 2002, the assessee further
filed an appeal before the Tribunal and by a single order dt. 29th June, 2004,
the Tribunal has allowed both the appeals of the assessee.

5\. According to the assessee it is having eligible units and also several
other ineligible units. While computing profits of the eligible unit for the
purpose of deduction-working out relief under Section 80HHC of the Act, it is
the eligible unit alone which has to be seen. After having computed profits of
the industrial undertaking, deduction under Section 80HHC of the Act has to be
computed and thereafter other provisions like set off of unabsorbed
depreciation and the carried forward depreciation were to arise based on the
principle laid down by the Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT v. H.M.T.
Ltd. , and also the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of CIT v.
Shirke Construction Equipments Ltd. . In the light of these decisions, the
assessee has, inter alia, claimed that order of the AO cannot be considered as
erroneous or prejudicial to the interest of Revenue. However, we need not go
into merit of the controversy in view of a preliminary objection canvassed by
the assessee.

6\. Mr. C.S. Aggarwal, learned senior counsel at the outset has raised a
preliminary objection concerning maintainability of these appeals and also to
territorial jurisdiction of this Court to entertain the instant appeals.
Learned Counsel has maintained that the assessee respondent was incorporated
on 23rd June, 1989 under the Companies Act, 1956 and it was being assessed
till the asst. yr. 2001-02 at Bangalore by the Jt. CIT, Special Range-I,
Bangalore, who has territorial jurisdiction over the assessee respondent. On
facts, he has submitted that the Jt. CIT, Special Range-I, Bangalore, vide
order dt. 9th March, 2000, given effect to the order of the CIT, Bangalore,
when appeal of the assessee respondent before the Bangalore Bench of the
Tribunal was pending. The aforementioned order was not served on the assessee
respondent till December, 2001. On receipt of the order, the assessee
respondent filed an appeal on 8th Jan., 2002 before the CIT(A)-III, Bangalore,
which led to the passing of order dt. 30th May, 2002. In pursuance to
Notification No. F. No. 63-Ad (AT)/1997, dt. 16th Sept., 1997, as amended by
Notifications bearing Nos. F. No. 63-Ad(AT)/2001, dt. 19th Oct., 2001 and F.
No. 63-Ad(AT)/2001, dt. 29th May, 2001, the appeals were to be filed at
Bangalore, as per the standing order of the President, who has constituted the
Benches to hear the appeals under Section 255(1) of the Act. He has emphasised
that the crucial factor for determining the territorial jurisdiction of the
Tribunal as well as that of the High Court to hear the appeals is the AO and
in this case the assessment was made by the Jt. CIT, Special Range-I,
Bangalore. The appeals were disposed of by the Bangalore Bench of the Tribunal
on 29th June, 2004 (A-V). He has further submitted that when the arguments
were heard by the Tribunal at Bangalore then no objection was raised by the
Revenue appellant that the AO of the assessee respondent is at Gurgaon and the
Departmental Representative was representing the AO at Gurgaon. Therefore, the
plea of the Revenue appellant that the jurisdiction of the assessee stood
transferred is without any consequence. In any case, learned Counsel has
submitted that communication from the AO at Gurgaon vide letter dt. 9th June,
2004, if assumed to be passed under Section 127 of the Act, cannot be
construed to mean that it would relate to the asst. yr. 1996-97 because the
assessment in respect of that year was framed by the AO at Bangalore. In that
regard Mr. Aggarwal has placed reliance on a judgment of this Court in the
case of U. Col. Paramjit Singh v. CIT . He has then relied upon on the
standing order of the President, Tribunal, dt. 16th Sept., 1997, issued in
pursuance of Sub-rule (1) of Rule 4 of the ITAT Rules, 1963 (for brevity, 'the
Rules') and supported his submission by relying upon the judgments of Delhi
High Court in the cases of Seth Banarsi Doss Gupta v. CIT and Suresh Desai &
Associates v. CIT (1998) 148 CTR (Del) 345 : (1998) 230 ITR 912 (Del); and a
judgment of Patna High Court in the case of CIT v. Justice S.B. Sinha .

6.1 On merit also learned Counsel for the assessee respondent has made
submissions but in view of the preliminary objection raised, we are not
opining on merit and would prefer to first decide the preliminary objection.

6.2 Mr. Yogesh Putney, learned Counsel for the Revenue appellant has submitted
that the preliminary objection is devoid of any merit and is liable to be
rejected. According to the learned Counsel, the assessee respondent had
requested for transfer of its area from Bangalore to Gurgaon on 2nd Jan., 2002
on the ground that the registered office of the company has shifted to
Gurgaon. According to the learned Counsel, applications were again filed on
5th Feb., 2002 and 25th Nov., 2002 and records were accordingly transferred
from Bangalore to Gurgaon, vide order dt. 20th May, 2005, under Section 127 of
the Act, which specifically stipulate the transfer of jurisdiction of the
assessee respondent from Bangalore to the Dy. CIT, Gurgaon Circle, Gurgaon. A
copy of the order has been placed on record as mark 'A'.

6.3 Mr. Putney has placed reliance on the Explanation to Section 127 of the
Act to argue that all proceedings under the Act in respect of any order, which
may be pending on the date of such order or direction or which may have been
completed on or before such date would be covered by the expression 'case' as
used in Section 120 of the Act. Therefore, the expression 'case' in Section
127 of the Act should also be construed in the same manner. Learned Counsel
has also placed reliance on the definition of expression 'High Court' used in
Section 269 of the Act. He has further invited our attention to Note 4 of Rule
4 of the standing order under the Rules to argue that jurisdiction of the
Bench is required to be determined not by the place of business or residence
of the assessee but by the location of the office of the AO, which in the
present case would be at Gurgaon after the transfer of the case under Section
127 of the Act. He has emphasised that this Court has jurisdiction over the
assessee respondent because its head office is within territorial area of this
Court. The argument is that jurisdiction of this Court is not to be determined
on the basis of the place of passing of assessment order by the AO but the AO
who exercises jurisdiction over the assessee after the transfer of the case.

7\. We have thoughtfully considered the submissions made by the learned
Counsel for the parties and have also gone through the judgments and
notifications on which reliance has been placed. It is undisputed that the
returns dt. 29th Nov., 1996 and 12th Dec, 1996 were filed by the assessee
respondent at Bangalore and the assessment order dt. 31st March, 1999 was
passed by the AO at Bangalore (A-1). Even the revisional order in exercise of
jurisdiction under Section 263 of the Act was passed by the CIT at Bangalore.
All other orders have been passed by the Revenue officers at Bangalore. Even
the appeals before the Tribunal were decided on 29th June, 2004 at Bangalore.
According to Note 4 under Sub-rule (1) of Rule 4 of the Rules, it has been
stipulated that ordinary jurisdiction of the Bench is to be determined not by
the business or residence of the assessee but by the location of the office of
the AO. This statutory guidance is available from the standing order dt. 16th
Sept., 1997, passed under Sub-rule (1) of Rule 4 of the Rules.

8\. Moreover, the aforementioned legal position has been laid down by the
Delhi High Court in the cases of Seth Banarsi Dass Gupta (supra) and Suresh
Desai & Associates (supra). In the case of Suresh Desai & Associates (supra),
assessment in respect of asst. yr. 1980-81 was framed by the AO at Bombay,
which was in pursuance to a search and seizure action conducted by the
Directorate of Enforcement under Section 132 of the Act. The assessee had also
filed an appeal before the CIT(A) at Bombay, who had directed the AO to afford
the assessee an opportunity of hearing and then again complete the assessment
in accordance with law. The Dy. CIT Asst. Bombay then passed an order of
assessment. Again an appeal was preferred which was decided by the CIT(A) at
Bombay. However, the assessee and the Revenue preferred further appeals before
the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal. The assessee filed an application under
Section 256(1) of the Act citing few questions and sought reference to the
High Court. The application was dismissed by the Tribunal at Bombay with the
observation that no referable question arose out of the order of the Tribunal.
Thereafter an application was filed before the High Court of Delhi, under
Section 256(2) of the Act and a preliminary objection was raised by the
Revenue that the High Court at Delhi did not have jurisdiction and the
application could lie only before the High Court at Bombay. Placing reliance
on the judgment in the case of Seth Banarsi Dass Gupta (supra), the Division
Bench culled out the following reasonings to sustain the preliminary
objection:

(i) Section 64 which has relevance for determining the jurisdiction of the AO
by reference to the place where the assessee carries on business, profession
or vacation, has no relevance for determining the jurisdiction of the
appellate authority/Tribunal;

(ii) In considering the question as to the High Court to which a Bench having
jurisdiction over more than one State has to make a reference, the basis
adopted for determining the jurisdiction of the Bench of the Tribunal would be
more appropriate than the basis adopted for determining the jurisdiction of
the ITO;

(iii) It would be quite appropriate for the Bench to refer the question of law
arising out of its own order in appeal to the High Court of the State from
which the appeal had come;

(iv) The suggestion that the place of the location of the Bench which heard
and determined an appeal may be adopted as the basis for the determination of
the jurisdiction of the High Court to which the question of law arising out of
the order should be referred cannot be accepted.

Reference cannot be made to the High Court of Delhi merely because the Delhi
Bench of the Tribunal situated within the territorial jurisdiction of the High
Court heard the appeal.

9\. The Division Bench also placed reliance on another Division Bench judgment
of Delhi High Court in the case of Birla Cotton, Spinning & Weaving Mills Ltd.
v. CIT . The Division Bench also held that territorial jurisdiction of the
Tribunal extends over several States though each of such State has its own
High Court. The decisions of the High Courts are binding on the subordinate
Courts and authorities or Tribunals under its superintendence throughout the
territory in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction but it does not
extend beyond its territorial jurisdiction. In other words, the decision of
one High Court is not a binding precedent for another High Court or for Courts
or Tribunals outside its territorial jurisdiction. The doctrine of precedents
and rule of binding efficacy of law laid down by the High Court within its
territorial jurisdiction, the questions of law arising out of decision in a
reference, have to be determined by the High Court which exercises territorial
jurisdiction over the situs of the AO and if it was otherwise then it would
result in serious anomalies as an assessee affected by an assessment order at
Bombay may invoke the jurisdiction of Delhi High Court to take advantage of a
suitable decision taken by it. Thus, such an assessee may avoid application of
inconvenient law laid down by the jurisdictional High Court of Bombay. On the
basis of the aforementioned reasoning, the Division Bench sustained the
objection that the jurisdiction to entertain the application under Sub-
sections (1) and (2) of Section 256 of the Act vested in the High Court of
Bombay and not of Delhi. We are in respectful agreement with the
aforementioned reasoning of the Delhi High Court. Accordingly, we hold that
the preliminary objection raised by learned Counsel for the assessee
respondent is sustainable.

10\. It is true that transfer order under Section 127 of the Act has been
passed on 20th May, 2005 but it would not affect the assessment framed by the
AO in respect of the asst. yr. 1996-97. The reliance of the Revenue on
Explanation to Section 127 of the Act with regard to the meaning of expression
'case' is wholly misplaced and is liable to be rejected because Section 120 of
the Act does not deal with jurisdiction of the Tribunal or the High Court. It
is appropriate to make a reference to Sections 120 and 127 along with
Explanation, which thus read:

120\. (1) IT authorities shall exercise all or any of the powers and perform
all or any of the functions conferred on, or, as the case may be, assigned to
such authorities by or under this Act in accordance with such directions as
the Board may issue for the exercise of the powers and performance of the
functions by all or any of those authorities.

Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any IT
authority, being an authority higher in rank, may, if so directed by the
Board, exercise the powers and perform the functions of the IT authority lower
in rank and any such direction issued by the Board shall be deemed to be a
direction issued under Sub-section (1).

(2) The directions of the Board under Sub-section (1) may authorise any other
IT authority to issue orders in writing for the exercise of the powers and
performance of the functions by all or any of the other IT authorities who are
subordinate to it.

(3) In issuing the directions or orders referred to in Sub-sections (1) and
(2), the Board or other IT authority authorised by it may have regard to any
one or more of the following criteria, namely:

(a) territorial area;

(b) persons or classes of persons;

(c) incomes or classes of income; and

(d) cases or classes of cases.

(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of Sub-sections (1) and (2), the Board
may, by general or special order, and subject to such conditions, restrictions
or limitations as may be specified therein,-

(a) authorise any Director General or Director to perform such functions of
any other IT authority as may be assigned to him by the Board;

(b) empower the Director General or Chief CIT or CIT to issue orders in
writing that the powers and functions conferred on, or as the case may be,
assigned to, the AO by or under this Act in respect of any specified area or
persons or classes of persons or incomes or classes of income or cases or
classes of cases, shall be exercised or performed by an Addl. CIT or an Addl.
Director or a Jt. CIT or a Jt. Director, and, where any order is made under
this clause, references in any other provision of this Act, or in any rule
made thereunder to the AO shall be deemed to be references to such Addl. CIT
or Addl. Director or Jt. CIT or Jt. Director by whom the powers and functions
are to be exercised or performed under such order, and any provision of this
Act requiring approval or sanction of the Dy. CIT shall not apply.

(5) The directions and orders referred to in Sub-sections (1) and (2) may,
wherever considered necessary or appropriate for the proper management of the
work, require two or more AOs (whether or not of the same class) to exercise
and perform, concurrently, the powers and functions in respect of any area or
persons or classes of persons or incomes or classes of income or cases or
classes of cases; and, where such powers and functions are exercised and
performed concurrently by the AOs of different classes, any authority lower in
rank amongst them shall exercise the powers and perform the functions as any
higher authority amongst them may direct, and, further, references in any
other provision of this Act or in any rule made thereunder to the AO shall be
deemed to be references to such higher authority and any provision of this Act
requiring approval or sanction of any such authority shall not apply.

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in any direction or order issued under
this section, or in Section 124, the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that for the purpose of furnishing of the return of
income or the doing of any other act or thing under this Act or any rule made
thereunder by any person or class of persons, the IT authority exercising and
performing the powers and functions in relation to the said person or class of
persons shall be such authority as may be specified in the notification.

127\. (1) The Director General or Chief CIT or CIT may, after giving the
assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter, wherever it is
possible to do so, and after recording his reasons for doing so, transfer any
case from one or more AOs subordinate to him (whether with or without
concurrent jurisdiction) to any other AO or AOs (whether with or without
concurrent jurisdiction) also subordinate to him.

(2) Where the AO or AOs from whom the case is to be transferred and the AO or
AOs to whom the case is to be transferred are not subordinate to the same
Director General or Chief CIT or CIT -

(a) where the Directors General or Chief CITs or CITs to whom such AOs are
subordinate are in agreement, then the Director General or Chief CIT or CIT
from whose jurisdiction the case is to be transferred may, after giving the
assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter wherever it is
possible to do so, and after recording his reasons for doing so, pass the
order;

(b) where the Directors General or Chief CITs or CITs aforesaid are not in
agreement, the order transferring the case may, similarly, be passed by the
Board or any such Director General or Chief CIT or CIT as the Board may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf.

(3) Nothing in Sub-section (1) or Sub-section (2) shall be deemed to require
any such opportunity to be given where the transfer is from any AO or AOs
(whether with or without concurrent jurisdiction) to any other AO or AOs
(whether with or without concurrent jurisdiction) and the offices of all such
officers are situated in the same city, locality or place.

(4) The transfer of a case under Sub-section (1) or Sub-section (2) may be
made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall not render necessary the
reissue of any notice already issued by the AO or AOs from whom the case is
transferred.

Explanation.-In Section 120 and this section, the word 'case', in relation to
any person whose name is specified in any order or direction issued
thereunder, means all proceedings under this Act in respect of any year which
may be pending on the date of such order or direction or which may have been
completed on or before such date, and includes also all proceedings under this
Act which may be commenced after the date of such order or direction in
respect of any year.

11\. A conjoint reading of the aforementioned provisions makes it evident that
the Director General or Chief CIT or CIT is empowered to transfer any case
from one or more AOs subordinate to him to any other AO. It also deals with
the procedure when the case is transferred from one AO subordinate to a
Director General or Chief CIT or CIT to an AO who is not subordinate to the
same Director General, Chief CIT or CIT. The aforementioned situation and the
definition of expression 'case' in relation to jurisdiction of an AO is quite
understandable but it has got nothing to do with the territorial jurisdiction
of the Tribunal or High Courts merely because Section 127 of the Act dealing
with transfer has been incorporated in the same chapter. Therefore, the
argument raised is completely devoid of substance and we have no hesitation to
reject the same.

12\. In view of the above, the appeal is dismissed by sustaining the
preliminary objection that this Court has no territorial jurisdiction over an
order passed by the AO at Bangalore. Accordingly, these appeals are returned
to the Revenue appellant for their filing before the competent Court of
jurisdiction in accordance with law.

