sec. 9(1) and the Second Schedule, a modified rate should be applied, that is,
"in lieu of the rate of royalty" specified in the Second Schedule, royalty at
the agreed rate should be charged if it was lower than 5%, or at 2-1/2%
minimum, whichever was higher. The notification, thus, did not
-empower the State Government to recover royalty at a rate higher than 5% in lieu of the rate chargeable under sec. 9(1) and the Second Schedule which provided 5% only. It appears that the State Government itself understood such a construction as proper, for, if it had understood otherwise, it would not have issued its order dated September 23, 1963 directing the Collector to recover royalty at 5% pursuant to the correspondence which had ensued between the company, the Central Government and the State Government. If it had understood the notification in the manner now urged by its counsel, it would have at once pointed out both to the company and the Central Government in that correspondence that it was entitled to recover royalty at the rates agreed to in the lease instead of at 5 %. It was only in 1965 that it changed its mind and cancelled its previous order. On the construction placed by us on sec. 30A and the said notification, it was not entitled so to do. The High Court, in our view, was right in quashing that order as also the demand notices issued in pursuance of that order. 
In view of our decision on the question of construction of the notification
and sec. 30A, it becomes unnecessary to consider the second contention raised
by the company's counsel that the order of 1963 amounted to a modification of
the terms of the lease, and that therefore, the State Government could not
unilaterally supersede such modification by issuing a subsequent order in
1965. For the reasons aforesaid, we are in agreement with the High Court's
conclusions.
Civil Appeal No. 168 of 1968 involves the same question and our decision in
that appeal, must, therefore, be governed by the decision in this appeal.
Both the appeals, therefore, fail and are dismissed with costs. 'Mere will,
however, be one set of hearing costs as the arguments in both the appeals have
been common.
    G.C.			  Appeals dismissed.
    9-L643 Sup CI/72
    622
