to be seen in the first instance as to whether the impugned mark of respondent
1 (defendant 1) is identical with the registered trade mark of the appellant
(plaintiff). It can be stated immediately that mere look at the two marks
shows that they are not identical. Therefore, it has next to be seen whether
the mark used by respondent 1 (defendant 1) is deceptively similar to that of
the appellant (plaintiff) in the sense that it is likely to deceive or cause
confusion in relation to cycles. That is to say, it has to be seen whether,
having due regard to relevant circumstances, the mark used by respondent 1
(defendant 1) is similar to the appellant's (plaintiff's) mark as remembered
by presons of average intelligence and imperfect memory or recollection. For
that purpose, the distinguishing or essentail features (and not every detail
of the two marks) which a purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect
memory would retail in his mind after seeing the marks, have to be noticed.
    (35) As stated by the learned District Judge, the mark of appellant (plaintiff).    "CONSISTSof a circular device with a star in the centre and a crown at the top. Within the circle, there is an inner circle and the circumference of the inner circle is connected to the star by a large number of lines. In between the circumference of the inner circle and that of the outer circle, there are written the words "THE Eastern STAR". At the bottom of the circle, there is an are like projection containing the words "ATLAS PRODUCT."  
    (36) The device used by respondent 1 (defendant 1), in the words of the learned District Judge, is oblong and contains the representation of a star in a smaller circle in the middle. Above the small circle is written the word "ROYAL" and below it "STAR". Beneath that are the words "MADE In INDIA".   
    (37) After setting out the above descriptions of the two marks, the learned District Judge made a detailed comparison of the two marks, and expressed his view as under:-    "I have looked at the two monograms and, in my opinion, it cannot be said that they are so similar as to likely to deceive or cause a confusion. It is no doubt true that the two monograms contain a representation of "STAR", but in all other respects they are so dissimilar that one can hardly confuse one for the other. There is no crown in the monogram used for the defendant's cycle. The monogram of the plaintiffi is circular with a crown at the top and a projection at the bottom, while the monogram of the defendant is oblong. There are lines shooting from the star towards the circumference of the circle in the monogram of the plaintiff, while there are no such lines in the monogram of the defendant. The name of the cycle "EASTERN STAR" is written between the circumference of the two circles in a circular manner while the words "ROYAL STAR" in the defendants monogram are both written almost horizontally. It is no doubt true that it is not the proper test in a case like the present to compare the two marks by placing them side by side. There are, however, plain and visible differences in the monograms of the two cycles and I have referred to them only with a view to show whether there is any likelihood of deception or confusion. A look at the two monograms, in my opinion, rules out such a likelihood."  
    (38) Shri Anoop Singh argued that the learned District Judge set out the correct principle of law, but committed an error in applying the same by taking note of the various differences in detail in the two monograms in arriving at the conclusion that there was no likelihood of deception or confusion. The observations of the learned District Judge extracted above do justify the argument of the learned counsel. The learned District Judge ought to have taken into consideration only the distinguishing or essential features of the two marks. A look at the two marks of the appellant (plaintiff) and respondent 1 (defendant 1) shows that the essential feature in each of them is the representation of a star therein. It is true that as observed by the learned District Judge, the mark of the appellant (plaintiff) is circular with a crown at the top and a projection at the bottom, while the device of respondent 1 (defendant 1) is oblong. But, the said features depict only the general outline or shape of each of the marks. In our opinion, the general outlines or shapes of the marks would be noticeable by a purchaser only when the two marks are compared by him placing them side by side. But, the correct approach is to consider which feature of each of the marks would remain in the mind of purchaser of a average intelligence and imperfect memory. After having a look at the two marks, we are of the view that it is not the general outlines or shapes of the marks, but it is the representation of a star in the two marks which would remain in the mind of such a purchaser. In this connection, we have also to keep in mind the fact that the appellant's (plaintiff's) cycle had acquired a reputation and came to be referred to as "STAR CYCLES". Consequently, the presence of the representation of a star in the mark of respondent 1 (defendant 1) is very likely to deceive or cause confusion in the mind of a purchaser who wants to purchase the cycle of the appellant (plaintiff) with the trade mark "EASTERN STAR". As observed by the Privy Council in De Cordova and others v. Vick Chemical Company, 68 R.P.C. 103, 106,    "IThas long been accepted that, if a word forming part of a mark has come in trade to be used to identify the goods of the owner of the mark, it is an infringement of the mark itself to use that word as the mark on part of the mark of another trader, for confusion is likely to result."  
    (39) It has, therefore, to be held that the mark of respondent 1 (defendant 1) in question constitutes an infringement of the registered trade mark No. 12052 of the appellant (plaintiff).   
    (40) In the view taken by us that the mark "ROYAL STAR" of respondent 1 (defendant 1) constitutes an infringement of the two registered trade marks, Nos-11246 and 12052, of the appellant (plaintiff), it is not necessary to consider the contention of Shri Anoop Singh that respondent 1 (defendant 1) has been passing off and or is likely to pass off its cycles as those of the appellant (plaintiff). No arguments were advanced before us by the learned counsel for the appellant (plaintiff) regarding the reliefs by way of damages and delivery of alleged offending goods etc. prayed for in clauses E and F of paragraph 20 of the plaint.   
    (41) For the above reasons, the appeal is allowed, and the decree of the learned District Judge, dated 27-11-1961, is set-aside, and the suit No. 18 of 1959 filed by the appellant (plaintiff) is decreed by granting a permanent injunction restraining respondent 1 (defendant 1) from using the mark "ROYAL STAR" in relation to its cycles or cycle accessories, and from proceeding with its application No. 177777 in the Trade Marks Registry at Bombay. The appellant (plaintiff) is entitled to its costs throughout from respondent 1 (defendant 1).   
